madam president, it is good to see you in the chair. we are opposed to the death penalty anywhere. therefore, we are appalled by the decision of 19 december 2006 on the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor; even more so because they could not be given a fair trial in a country where torture is common and where the people still suffer a mad and terrorist dictator after many years of also suffering un sanctions because of his terrorist adventures. but even more appalling is the fact that eu governments and the commission seem too easily to have forgotten lockerbie and the uta mass murders ordered by the gaddafi regime, and they now enjoy cosying up to that killer dictator, as eu ministers did recently in tripoli. is it because of the oil and the deals that many of them seem to care more about than the human rights of european and palestinian citizens? is it because, in fact, several eu government members are held to ransom by the gaddafi regime for fear that he will expose them for having been involved with his regime in the outsourcing of torture by the bush administration within the framework of the extraordinary renditions programme? why do governments, such as the british government, or my own, the portuguese government, not disclose the purpose and the contents of the frequent flights to and from libya since june 2003, which we have identified in the european parliament’s temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners? why do eu governments and the commission not act finally, decisively and audibly to get these five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor released?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, congratulations on your re-election. i congratulate my colleague raul romeva on the exemplary work he has once again done, which explains the almost unanimous vote in committee. there are several reasons for this consensus in the european parliament regarding the future code of conduct, but the main one is the following: against the tendency of some of our member states to maintain opacity and short-term priorities as the guiding principle of their arms export policy, we in this parliament advocate the need to equip the european union with a common, effective, credible arms export policy which respects fundamental values, including human rights, and which is linked to the union's external and development policies, contributing to their coherence and strengthening them. the ability of parliament to influence the council and public opinion in this debate is rooted in our consistent and principled positions in this area, immune to national particularisms and nefarious short-term interests. parliament has been europe's voice on this issue. the message from parliament in this latest report is as clear as ever. first, we want to make this code of conduct the common position. this is a necessary measure and the proof of this is that the working group of the european council has had a text ready to be adopted since june 2005, but it is taking a long time to adopt it. the resolution also reiterates the importance of this measure not being dependent on the fate of the arms embargo on china, which continues to be justified. it is equally important to strengthen the mechanisms that already exist. this is, for example, to harmonize national reports on the application of the code of conduct so that we can use them to assess compliance by the member states. commissioner barrot spoke of arms trafficking by air, particularly to africa. the general laxity in european airports, as revealed by our investigation of cia flights, suggests that the worst, the unimaginable, may be happening in this matter. but it is also a question of finally applying a system of exceptional measures to countries which have just emerged from an embargo after two years of paralysis. for example, the case of libya, which we have just discussed. the immoral arms race in libya since 2004 clearly demonstrates the importance of finding transitional rules as long as there are human rights-violating regimes. finally, this resolution is not just about the code of conduct. in it, parliament called on the member states to act as a vanguard for the creation of more advanced international legal instruments to regulate and, if possible, reduce the global arms trade. just as europe played a decisive role in the ottawa convention against anti-personnel mines, it is now up to the european union to continue to lead the process of drawing up an arms trade treaty at the united nations. human rights, sustainable development and lasting peace and security should inspire the external action of the european union and its member states. without a coherent and effective arms export control policy, this is not possible to achieve the union's most fundamental objectives and for the union to contribute to a better world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the export of arms by the european union states cannot be in contradiction with the fight against human rights or encourage dictatorships or warlike regimes. the question of european and world security and the prevention of terrorism requires a major effort to ensure control of european exports of both conventional arms and products, equipment and technology with clear military applications. i would like to stress the importance that must be attached to the practices and background of the states and governments that buy arms and military equipment, and the need to draw the necessary conclusions with regard to export credit mechanisms. we need a clear, effective and harmonized european policy in this area and it is also imperative to support the strengthening of international standards on the supply of arms. i would like to end with a sentence i made in this house on 16 november 2006: "no one will understand that the defense industries of the states of the union ever support, in practice, the outbreak and maintenance of illegitimate wars or dictatorial regimes. that is not the vocation of europe. this cannot be the practice of the european union".
once again the majority in the european parliament is trying to accelerate the pace of liberalisation and privatisation of rail passenger transport by seeking to extend the scope of the proposed directive not only to international passenger transport by 2010 but also to domestic passenger transport by 2017. the aim is to give the most profitable lines to large private economic interests by privatising their operation, particularly through public-private partnerships, promoting, as has happened in so many other sectors, the formation of monopolies which aim at profit, often receiving large amounts of public funding regardless of the interests and needs of each country and its people. in portugal, as reality shows, the implementation of this policy has worsened the conditions of the public rail transport service provided to the population, its mobility conditions and transport tariffs, it has meant the abolition of hundreds of kilometres of railway network, the closure of stations, the reduction of the number of passengers and the quality of services, as well as the reduction of the number of workers in the railway sector and the attack on their wages and labour rights, a policy to which workers and populations resist. we therefore table a proposal to reject this directive, which is justified in general terms in the minority opinion contained in the report.
i thank you very much, mr president, and i also congratulate you on your election and wish you good luck in your new duties. the liberalization of the rail transport market is a necessary reality but its progress has been hard and laborious. we must therefore continue our efforts to move closer to a european railway market which contributes to the achievement of the important objectives of the common transport policy. in this respect, a word of congratulations is due to our colleagues for the excellent work they have been doing. although for many people trains still have a certain image of romance and adventure linked to the famous orient express, the truth is that they are a safe, environmentally friendly means of transport that can carry large quantities of goods and passengers with comfort, speed and quality. however, the dream of rail networks between the atlantic and the baltic and black seas remains distant, as we continue to face major obstacles to effective freedom of movement in the railway sector. the problem of different ticketing routes remains, for example, between the iberian peninsula and the countries beyond the pyrenees, as does the management of internal and international traffic or ticketing, which is not an easy task. we are facing enormous challenges and without the will of the states we will not overcome them. on the other hand, the congestion of central europe and the accessibility of the european periphery are closely linked. if we want to see economic growth in our countries, we need combined measures to ensure that progress in one area is consistently matched by progress in the other. the truth is that the funding approved for the tens does not give us much cause for enthusiasm, which is why we must take a restrained satisfaction with the progress which i hope we will vote on tomorrow. parliament, in its diversity, is doing its best, but the council will have to respond positively to this push for progress and liberalization of rail transport. how did you do that? recognising the reasonableness of the time limits for opening up the networks, not imposing on it unlawful restrictions of an economic nature, accepting compromise solutions for ongoing concessions and public service obligations, agreeing to the rules for the certification of on-board staff in the name of the safety of persons and property and, finally, ensuring uniform protection of the rights of all passengers. together with the quality of the service, this is the best way of attracting citizens to this mode of transport, ensuring its development and the employment of those who work in it.
i would like to begin by congratulating you, mr president, and expressing my satisfaction at seeing you in office and recalling your entire political past. i would like to congratulate mrs hedkvist petersen on the quality of her report and on all she has done for road safety in this parliament and in europe. i support and will vote in favour of this report because i believe that only with strong action by the member states and the european union can we jointly and in a coordinated way tackle the insecurity of our roads, which, as you say, result in some 40 000 deaths a year, with direct costs to the economy of 2% of gdp a year. among other measures, i enthusiastically support the proposals to strengthen development in the area of safety with a view to the future application of harmonised driving standards at european level, the development and improvement of infrastructure and its management, the strengthening of vehicle safety, the introduction of the automatic emergency ecol system, the introduction of speed limitation systems and alcohol locking devices, although i do not think it is feasible, including at a scientific level, to have a zero alcohol blood level. the commission's proposal for a directive on the safety of vehicles with regard to the use of safety belts is a very important one. in any case, in these and other areas, the european commission has added responsibilities as the institution initiating the legislative process which i hope and am convinced will be assumed.
madam president, i also congratulate you on your election to this office. what strikes me most when we discuss road safety is the distance between countries where the number of accidents and casualties is the lowest and those where, despite significant improvements in recent years, the results are still tragically negative. i understand and support the position of mrs hedkvist petersen, who, in addition to an excellent report, raises a very relevant list of concrete aspects which must be taken into account: from the mandatory installation of hands-free systems for telephones to the problem of signalling, from the need for cross-border cooperation for the effective application of sanctions to the discussion on the use of permanent traffic lights, from the zero alcohol level for young drivers to the need for realism in setting speed limits, from the use of central separators to the need to protect motorcyclists from the killer rails; and i could go on and on, because the list is long. that said, however, i would like to stress that what impresses me most is what separates one country from another and here, in addition to the rules, i believe that there are two factors which are decisive: on the one hand, of course, the quality of the car fleet and the state of the road infrastructure, but on the other, the drivers themselves. there's an educational dimension, even a cultural dimension, that has a lot to do with the outcome of the numbers that we know. that's where i think we should go, above all. not only, of course, is technique, technology, the rules fundamental, but ultimately what matters most is who is driving and his attitude at the wheel. if a road is dangerous a particularly careful driver can avoid an accident, if the road is safe any dangerous driving can lead to a disaster. i am convinced that this is what the authorities and citizens of some european countries have understood and that in others it is necessary for them to understand this fully. the rest is an important and very relevant set of measures which have my agreement in essence. i may not think it is necessary to impose the same rule on priority for roundabout entry in each member state, even if some countries drive on the left, or to consider that ice and snow on car roofs is not a problem that is faced in the same way in all member states (at least it is not in mine), but in general i recognise the usefulness of most of the measures advocated. but i would like to stress, and i will end with this, that it is the drivers, their education and their sense of responsibility, who are the weapon of success, or, on the contrary, the weapon of accidents and their victims.
the rapporteur. madam president, whom i congratulate on your election, ladies and gentlemen, almost 800 million people are now covered by the cotonou agreement, which, following on from the founding lomé agreement, has guided relations between the european union and the acp countries since 2000. i hope that they will become ever closer and mutually beneficial. the favourable opinion of my rapporteur, for which i ask the house to support me, concerns the first five-yearly review of the agreement, as provided for in article 95 of the agreement. despite the intentionally limited nature of the amendments introduced, since the stability of agreements of this type and size should be given priority, they are overall positive. they aim to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the lomé/cotonou acquis, which is based primarily on the equality of the parties, respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and good governance. while the fall of the berlin wall and the end of the cold war allowed the reference to human rights to be welcomed and in 2000 it was possible to define a deepening of the political dimension of our relations, as well as the prioritisation of the fight against poverty and the improvement of the economic and financial partnership, the 2005 review reinforces the political dialogue aspect by providing for it to be conducted in a more systematic, structured and formal way, thus contributing to preventing and resolving crises. the fight against terrorism also deserves, because of its urgency and timeliness, to be inserted into the body of the agreement, as does the reference to the millennium development goals, linking the common eu-acp commitment to poverty reduction and to improving education and health levels, without which we cannot speak of real development. decentralised local authorities, the prevention of mercenary work, the promotion of traditional knowledge, the prevention of hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis and the encouragement of exchanges of young people and students are also part of this review, demonstrating a greater awareness on the part of the signatory parties of the specific problems and aspirations of the peoples of the acp countries. i also want to stress and welcome the fact that for the first time there is an explicit reference to national parliaments as beneficiaries of aid. the development of parliamentary capacity is essential for the good management of public affairs and for full public debate on the development policy choices and priorities of each beneficiary country. many of the countries to which the union sends substantial aid under the cotonou framework enter these funds in their budgets. however, the many complaints that the funds transferred have not always contributed effectively, to the extent necessary and desirable, to the promotion and full implementation of these values are not new. at the same time, there is frequent criticism that the internal application of european funds is often discriminatory and arbitrary, and that the objectivity and impartiality of the public administration are not properly guaranteed. where this happens, the situation is in direct contradiction with the fundamental principles underlying the allocation of funds by the european union, justifying in each case a greater demand on the part of the community institutions, in particular as regards the need for the effective involvement of all political forces and civil society in the beneficiary countries in the discussion and setting of priorities in the use of the aid provided. as i had the opportunity to propose to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which adopted this suggestion in november 2005 at the edinburgh meeting, this national accountability and awareness-raising could take the form of an annual parliamentary debate in each national parliament of the beneficiary countries specifically on external aid. ideally, it should take place some time before the respective annual debates on the national budget. this measure would have the merit of promoting the strengthening of democratic institutions and enhancing better exercise of citizenship. the agreement and its main body thus create a spirit in favour of the crucial systematic involvement of parliaments in the planning, monitoring and evaluation of the impact of cooperation in their respective countries. it is up to us to persist, to promote and support this effort. despite the amendments, of which i have highlighted the most relevant, the acp side, through the minister of foreign affairs of cape verde, considered that further simplification of administrative procedures for access to the european development fund could have been done. i share his concern and i think it is appropriate to echo it here and to ask the council and the commission to consider this in future reviews. in conclusion, i would ask members to support this favourable opinion and i would urge parliament, the council and the commission to do everything possible to maintain and, where possible, increase in future the effort to provide the acp countries with sound and responsible aid.
i also congratulate you, madam president, and i congratulate my colleague, mr ribeiro e castro, on your opinion and on the positive developments which this review shows. i would particularly like to highlight the support for the international criminal court and the reference to the millennium development goals, without which no development strategy is possible. i also stress the importance of the new cooperation clause on combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, an area where it is essential that the european union does more in terms of close cooperation and technical assistance, and also in terms of the proliferation of small arms, which are the ones that kill the most in our partner countries. i must also confess that i feel some frustration with regard to eu-acp relations when i see colleagues from some acp states in the joint parliamentary assembly uncritically conveying the official positions of their governments. clearly we must do more to strengthen national parliaments and in particular their capacity to scrutinise national budgets, cooperation budgets and the fight against corruption. the european union, for its part, must stop ignoring and use the clauses in this agreement to demand that the signatory governments put an end to serious violations of human rights and the most basic principles of democracy and good governance. i join those who have urged the commission to involve parliament in the examination of cooperation policies with the acp countries.
in writing. it is regrettable that the majority of the european parliament voted against our proposal to reject a directive which is aimed at nothing more than the liberalisation and privatisation of rail passenger transport between the different countries of the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. this process of liberalisation is part of the neoliberal guidelines of the so-called 'lisbon strategy' with the ultimate aim of privatising this and other public services, and it is regrettable that the portuguese government has reiterated 'its support for the objective of liberalising rail transport' (in a statement of 24 july 2006). we will continue to take active action to defend the public rail transport service, a sector which is strategic for portugal's socioeconomic development, and to ensure that the rights of workers and the general public are respected.
in writing. while recognising the importance of defining the certification of professionals in this sector - particularly train drivers - this issue is part of the process of liberalisation of rail transport promoted by the eu institutions - whether by the council (governments), the commission or the european parliament majority, the latter being the most enthusiastic. thus, despite some positive advances in workers' rights and some technical aspects, it must be borne in mind that these measures are part of the wave of privatisations under way and not in the improvement of service provision. on the other hand, a number of questions arise: whether large transnational companies 'import' their professionals to operate in a given country, and how, in the name of 'free access' and 'competitiveness', they would put them in competition with local professionals, forcing agreements unfavourable to workers and encouraging 'social dumping'; the guarantee of respect for the rights already acquired by such workers; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the directive, but it is still too early to say whether the commission and the agency will be responsible for defining the model and the requirements which must then be recognised by the member states and not the other way around, i.e. by complying with national law and provisions, which are recognised by the other member states.
in writing. this report should be seen in the context of the european union's policy objectives for the railway sector - for which the commission has already presented three legislative packages over the past few years - which is simply to complete the technical/legal framework to achieve, in stages, the total liberalisation of rail transport, i.e. its handing over to large private interests, to the detriment and at the expense of the dismantling of national strategic public undertakings. it is in this context that this proposal for a regulation on rail passengers' rights and obligations arises and should be understood. the report seeks, among other things, to extend the scope of the directive - that is, it does not deal only with the rights and obligations of passengers on international rail services, it includes national ones - it seeks to define the information to be provided to users, the compensation to be granted in the event of delay, accident or death, and to ensure the conditions for the use of this means of transport by persons with reduced mobility. in other words, the current definition of passenger rights is being carried out in the context of a process which calls into question one of their fundamental rights: the right to quality public transport.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution because we are against the death penalty and therefore oppose the court's decision to sentence five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor in libya to death by firing squad, including the confirmation of the death sentences on 19 december 2006. we also express our deep concern about the arguments on which the defendants were convicted and the treatment they received while in pretrial detention. we reiterate our opposition to the death penalty and recall that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the strengthening of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights, and therefore call for the abolition of the death penalty throughout the world. we also join the call on the competent libyan authorities to take the necessary steps to review and revoke the death sentence and to pave the way for a speedy resolution of the case on the basis of humanitarian considerations.
in writing. the trial of five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor, who were sentenced to death, is proof that states (some states) do not hesitate to take foreign citizens hostage. no matter how hard we try, the data proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that those sentenced to death in this trial are not guilty of the charges against them. and yet the trials went on. the only explanation is that these foreign nationals are being used for domestic policy purposes and/or for external purposes. in a country that is far from being a democracy, or at least a state of law, this is not surprising. it is also true that since 1 january five european citizens have been sentenced. this means that we must do more to ensure that justice is done and that the general principles of the law are respected in this case. libya, which is a state today, the same state it always was, but with a different behavior (for reasons of political realism) has to realize that we do not accept that these convicts are hostages of libyan politics.
in writing. the military industry is not, by definition, the dirtiest or most corrupt business. but your practice is especially likely to be. for this reason, i believe that it is in the area of vigilant monitoring of the behaviour of public and private actors that we must seek to act so that the element of pressure (legal, but not only) can have some effect. as for the need to make this code of conduct binding, i stand by my longstanding agreement. finally, china. every year we have this debate. china does not give any guarantees, on the contrary, that military equipment will be used in accordance with our requirements. that argument alone would suffice. in addition, the growing importance of this global actor requires that we seek to make it a partner in the quest for a world with less violence and less conflict. this cannot be achieved by going from concession to concession in the name of the economy. in some cases, that may be the best course. not here, it's not. finally, i regret that the report confuses china, colombia, ethiopia, eritrea, indonesia, nepal and israel. it's confusing what's not confusing and confusing.
in writing. the european road safety action programme, adopted in 2003, sets the target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2010, which means not exceeding 25 000 fatalities per year. although this number decreased between 2001 and 2005, it is not expected to be possible to achieve the proposed target. the fight against road accidents must be developed in several aspects: civic education of drivers, road conditions, vehicle condition, deterrent measures, all integrated into a global strategy for the transport sector. this will require measures to be implemented: civic education in schools and driving instruction, using new teaching methods and promoting civic awareness among citizens; monitoring both of drivers and of the condition of vehicles, which should be more preventive and educational and not be limited to the so-called 'fine-fighting'; the quality of roads and adequate and understandable signage; and the question of car traffic, which has been increasing considerably, to the detriment of public transport. this is why it is important to integrate this issue into a real transport strategy that promotes the use of public transport.
in writing. it is important that it has been agreed that mainstreaming gender equality implies the reorganisation, strengthening, development and evaluation of policy processes so that the gender perspective can be incorporated into all policies, at all levels and at all stages, by the actors normally involved in the definition of such policies, without prejudice to mainstreaming gender equality in specific policies aimed at rectifying situations resulting from inequality between men and women. the equality policies on the one hand and the integration of the gender perspective on the other constitute a dual and complementary strategy, which is why they must be in harmony in order to achieve the objective of equality between men and women, as stated in the resolution adopted. it is necessary to create the conditions in each member state for effective equality in various fields, not just in political office. we therefore welcome the rejection in plenary of the proposal in the report which advocated the introduction of a compulsory quota system for political parties on their lists for all collective bodies.
koffi annan said in nairobi that climate change is not science fiction. they are a global problem that requires a global response from governments and citizens. governments will have to take urgent and effective action, but citizens will also have to change their habits and lifestyles. for example, avoiding the car and walking more is good for your health and protects the environment. the fight against climate change is a priority of the german and portuguese presidencies and i hope that together they can give a considerable boost to this fight and that the next un conference, to be held in bali during the portuguese presidency, will be an opportunity that the european union will use to lead the negotiations leading to a new climate regime. i congratulate you, mr minister, on your excellent speech.
as you know, the european commission has recently proposed a package of energy measures and some greenhouse gas emission and renewable energy targets, stating that its purpose is to combat climate change and to boost the energy security and competitiveness of the european union. now they have come here to reaffirm these objectives and the targets they have set, highlighting the insistence on an international agreement on the framework after 2012, arguing that a 30% reduction in emissions from developed countries should be achieved, which already implies that the european union should commit itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by this percentage, with concrete measures, in particular through measures in the field of energy. however, it is clear that the possibility of trading emissions remains, which particularly affects the countries with the weakest economies, which do not have the money to buy these emission allowances. while there are positive proposals in the field of emission reductions and renewable energy, there is another set of proposals which will be difficult to implement, because of the demands placed on the different countries, given the opposition, particularly from the usa. but above all, we must not allow this to be used to further liberalize and concentrate energy and dominate the most powerful countries.
i would like to begin by saying that i see the united states of america not as our adversaries but as our friends and partners in common struggles. and certainly within the common struggles we must give particular emphasis to the fight against terrorism, but it is also worth mentioning that there have been exaggerations in the way the american administration wanted to conduct some of these struggles. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. it is also true that there is now a new majority in the us congress which has led the us administration to back down on some of its most controversial programmes at home and i hope this will have consequences abroad as well. that means, in my view, well, america's reunion with its good old days of valuing civil liberties. vice-president frattini reminded us here that security requirements cannot harm the values of essential freedoms and, in particular, data protection, and president cavada reminded us that there is an exaggeration in what is being asked, particularly in terms of the number of data. parliament wants to know what data? who can have access? how is the purpose limitation ensured, i.e. that they cannot be used for other functions? who do they share with? what is the shelf life? the question of the push case, which has already been mentioned here, and what are the rights that people have to appeal the misuse of their personal data? it has already been said here that if we in europe give american citizens the same level of protection of personal data as we give european citizens under reciprocity, it is legitimate for us to demand the same, that is, that european citizens enjoy in the united states the same level of data protection as is given to american citizens.
after months of complaints about the unacceptable transmissions of data contained in passenger name record (pnr) by airlines and of personal data by the swift (society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunications) system to the security and intelligence services of the united states, the german presidency of the council and the european commission have now put questions to the ep's plenary session, but have not added anything in their replies that would bring to full clarity these situations and put an end to this clear violation of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. in their replies, they said nothing about concrete measures to put an end to these unacceptable and illegal situations, or about the need for the commission to explain these to the us administration. this behaviour shows the council's submissive and passive attitude in the face of us blackmail and impositions. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
another round of layoffs has just taken place at the ovar plant of the multinational yasaki saltano, with some 500 workers being transferred to other plants of the same group. it is noted that this dismissal particularly affects young women in an area where there are no employment alternatives and it happens after the multinational has promised to launch new production projects, without anything having materialized. but in the meantime, as the european commission has just confirmed, the multinational yasaki saltano has received over 2 million euro of community funds for its factories in portugal. it is therefore important to prevent this situation of aid to multinational companies which then lay off workers and relocate their production from continuing. it's a scandal you can't contain.
in writing. although it silences the causes of the deep and growing social inequalities and developmental asymmetries, the unbridled exploitation of natural resources and the immense destruction of the environment in the world - by avoiding the one responsible for it: capitalism - the report includes a diverse set of proposals and considerations which we consider positive, such as the call for the 0.7% gnp target to be met for effective and solidarity-based development cooperation. however, we cannot accept that, for example: - because the local authorities in developing countries are not always in a position to meet the financing needs for the large-scale investments required for the construction and maintenance of infrastructure networks such as water supply or sanitation, it is considered that "only the supplementary contribution of private capital, in the framework of public-private partnerships" is the solution, handing over this basic and vital resource to private capital; - or that the reduction (and not cancellation!) of the debt of the least developed countries is conditional on respect for so-called "good governance" whose criteria are dictated by the conveniences of the great powers. hence our vote.
in writing. the new partnership agreement with the republic of gabon - which entered into force on 3 december 2005 - is valid for six years and contains a protocol which reduces by 40% the fishing opportunities available to the different member states' fleets operating in these waters, including the portuguese fleet. and, as has been the case with other tuna fisheries agreements, the burden on shipowners is increasing, with shipowners now bearing 35% of the total burden (instead of 25%), obviously with a reduction in the community's contribution. perhaps this is the reason why the possibilities offered by the agreements are not being fully exploited, and why many long-distance fishing vessels are being destroyed, as is happening in portugal. this situation raises questions about the real impact of these agreements, which increase fleet costs and reduce fishing opportunities. it is worrying, particularly in relation to the portuguese fleet, that this agreement implies a breach of the existing proportionality in the distribution of possibilities with other fleets compared to the previous one, i.e. putting relative stability in question. portugal loses 50% of its fishing opportunities for surface longliners, leaving it with only 3 licences compared with 6 under the previous agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am against the death penalty, which i consider to be an unacceptable barbarity in the 19th century and incompatible with human dignity. it is urgent to change this state of affairs. i therefore support the proposal to ask the united nations general assembly for a universal moratorium on capital punishment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because the fight against obesity must be a political priority for the european union, given that 27% of men and 38% of women in europe are overweight. more worrying is childhood obesity: more than 5 million children (eu-25) are obese and some 300 000 new cases occur annually. it is urgent to reverse this trend. i agree with the general approach proposed: consumer information from childhood; restriction of television advertising; nutrition and health claims on food labelling; greater coherence between the common agricultural policy and health policies.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of this report, which, among other things, includes two key issues: the recognition that the promotion of healthy eating and physical activity should be a political priority of the member states and the european union as a key issue in the fight against obesity, and the recommendation that obesity be officially recognised as a chronic disease. obesity is the most common form of malnutrition, resulting from a disease of excessive fat storage and is associated with debilitating, progressive diseases and with a relative risk of increased mortality relative to the normal population, becoming a growing public health problem. as the report notes, second data for 2006 is that there are now more than 300 million obese people worldwide, a number that has more than doubled in the last 15 years. in addition to supporting the fight against the disease by providing patients with access to health services, medicines, psychological counselling and other services, it is therefore essential to adopt a prevention strategy, which involves promoting healthy eating and lifestyles, particularly affecting women and children, as studies have shown that they are particularly vulnerable to the disease.
in writing. cross-border traffic has increased, as has the number of accidents involving residents in other eu member states. an inquiry into the effects of the existence of different limitation periods and, in particular, the number of cases concerning personal injury of citizens in cross-border areas involving different limitation periods, may help to understand the situation. there are limitation periods ranging from as short as 12 months in some countries to 30 years or more in others, which can lead to injured parties being denied the exercise of their rights to compensation because they have not initiated legal proceedings in accordance with the applicable foreign legislation on limitation. the most vulnerable members of the community, including those who have been most seriously injured or who are otherwise unable to adequately protect their own rights, are at greater risk of their rights being restricted in this way. it may therefore be appropriate to find a practical and fair solution which helps victims and their representatives, but which does not make the cost of insurance unbearable and does not call into question the principle of subsidiarity or the search for countries where the costs for insurers are lower, as could be the case with the application of the principle of the country of origin of the insurers.
in writing. as the rapporteur points out, although it has long been proven that young women and girls are no less capable than men and boys in the field of education, there are a number of reasons that still put them at a disadvantage, particularly in higher education and lifelong learning. in 2004, eight out of ten female students in higher education in the eu member states completed their studies. this rate is higher than that of boys, of whom only three-quarters have completed them, proving that girls are not less motivated or capable than boys when it comes to education. but the proportion of girls who continued their studies or started an academic career is lower. while the ratio of women to men in university education is 59% to 41%, only 43% of those who complete doctorates and only 15% of those who obtain the title of university professor are women. these figures show the marked gender gap in lifelong learning and in the area of women's further education outside the academic sphere, confirming that both phenomena have the same causes, which are rooted in a persistent gender gap, also clearly visible in wage discrimination.
in writing. the historical relationship of some european countries with this region and the ties they maintain with it, whether in political, cultural or economic terms, require the european union as a whole to strengthen these same ties to the mutual benefit of the countries of the region and its member states. the heterogeneity of the region, the dispersion of its population and the specific problems arising from the insular nature of many of its member states require a flexible and balanced approach on the part of a europe which is already one of the main international donors. as a portuguese, i cannot but welcome the calls by the rapporteur for the commission to set up programmes to combat malaria in east timor. i believe, however, that this appeal should be extended to other infectious diseases which are also plaguing that country. i also welcome the call for attention to the specific problems of timor and i support the call for the european commission to support the timorese leaders in their efforts to build a democratic, stable, reconciled, free, prosperous and just society.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the 'yes' vote in the referendum held yesterday in portugal on the decriminalisation of voluntary termination of pregnancy, carried out by a woman in the first 10 weeks of her pregnancy. this result puts an end to all the false obstacles that have been created up to now, including the holding of the referendum itself, so that the portuguese parliament does not exercise its legitimate legislative competence on this issue. we must now make up for the years and years lost. i would like to thank all the members of the european parliament, particularly those of the group of the european united left - green left, nordic left, who have shown their solidarity over the years with the struggle of portuguese women, many of whom have been unjustly and inhumanely accused in court of practicing abortion. the result achieved yesterday is an important victory for portuguese women and for all those who, like us, have been fighting for decades for the end of clandestine abortion, for the defence of women's health and for a free, conscious and responsible motherhood/fatherhood.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mrs jackson and mr blokland, on the work they have done. 49% of eu municipal waste is landfilled. 18% is incinerated and only 33% is recycled or composted. the european environment agency forecasts that paper, glass and plastic waste will increase by around 40% by 2020. in this context, the revision of the waste framework directive should contribute to the reduction of the environmental and socio-economic impacts resulting from waste management by taking into account the whole life cycle of products and materials and giving priority to the protection of human health. the reduction, prevention, reuse and recycling of waste should be given priority. the european commission should take the lead in drawing up a waste prevention action plan which can serve as a source of information for the prevention programmes to be drawn up by the member states. they should take measures to stabilise their waste production by 2012. to this end, it is essential to strengthen the responsibility of producers and importers for waste generated following the placing of their product on the market, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle. the thematic strategy refers to the need to clarify concepts. i have therefore tabled two amendments seeking to clarify the definitions of recovery and disposal of waste, which i hope will be adopted by the european parliament. the european parliament recently adopted reach, which provides for the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that the collection, production, transport, storage and treatment of hazardous waste are carried out in the best possible conditions for safety and protection of the environment and human health.
mr president, the process of assessing whether turkey is meeting the criteria for accession to the european union requires a frequent assessment of the progress made, particularly in the field of human rights. in this context, the quality of the report by emine bozkurt shows that she has paid great attention to the development of the situation of women in turkey, and for this reason the rapporteur should be congratulated. i would like to highlight some of its recommendations: the incentives for the social partners to promote the participation of women in the social dialogue, the invitation to the turkish authorities to set up a system for monitoring the drop-out of young people from the school system, the proposal for a quota system that works in several countries, from iberia to scandinavia, to ensure the equitable representation of women on electoral lists, the need to instruct judges to punish severely so-called 'honour killings' and forced marriages, the need to carry out a campaign to promote the image of women as agents and economic and social elements and the need to include the social partners and some ngos in the advisory committee on the status of women. the report by mrs emine bozkurt is thus an excellent contribution to the progress of the evaluation of the situation of women in turkey. ladies and gentlemen, i cannot help saying that there can be progress throughout europe on the situation of women. just yesterday in portugal, with the vote of the portuguese women and the portuguese men, the discrimination against voluntary termination of pregnancy was approved in a popular referendum. a great day for portugal! a great day for women's rights!
in writing. it is not our purpose to comment on the validity or otherwise of this decision to repeal directive 68/89/eec, although we generally have reservations about the commission's harmonising approach, which in this case has the majority of companies and member states saying that it does not apply this directive. but it is important to give an opinion on the process in which it is involved - the 'better regulation' initiative - which, in the name of simplification, is in practice moving towards deregulation of markets at national and community level. the commission's justification is clear: "better regulation is crucial to improve the competitiveness of european businesses and to achieve the objectives of the lisbon agenda", cutting "unnecessary costs and obstacles to adaptation and innovation" and putting "the right incentives and basic market conditions in place for businesses to develop". in other words, better regulation is about benefiting businesses and not about protecting the labour, social and environmental rights of consumers. this is what we reject. we do not want to see legislation that jeopardizes the primacy of competition or the profits of companies being withdrawn and the rest being ignored.
in writing. the report raises a number of questions, some of which are even contradictory. priorities are set for waste management, with emphasis on prevention, reuse, recycling and other recovery operations, and for waste disposal. we consider this to be a positive development and hope that the final text will develop towards this position. but on the other hand, some of the positive amendments tabled to the effect that the incineration process should not be regarded as a recovery process and that the use of this method should be virtually void were not adopted, although others, which greatly limit its scope, were adopted, and therefore some contradictions were generated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why, at this first reading, we have taken stock of the aspects which have improved the commission's original proposal. but the final vote on second reading will depend on the clarification of the existing contradictions.
in writing. the question of waste treatment is of the utmost importance and must be debated with the notion that an ecological excess will result in legislative unrealism and actual impracticability, while a legislative insufficiency will result in environmental neglect and an avoidable legacy for future generations. on the other hand, it is worth being aware that, however good our intentions may be in reducing pollution, the truth is that the increase in living standards - still ongoing in the european union (not to mention the rest of the planet) - will always lead to increased consumption and, inevitably, to increased waste. we must be realistic and above all seek, as suggested here, to obtain a positive return from waste treatment, particularly in terms of energy.
in writing. we know that one of the problems of modern societies is the production of waste. we therefore stress the adoption of this document which highlights the primary objective of waste management, namely the protection of the environment and human health. we also stress the adoption of the so-called 'waste hierarchy', i.e. the establishment of the following priorities for action, with emphasis on prevention first, followed by reuse, recycling, other recovery operations, including, for example, energy recovery, and finally disposal. the increased importance of prevention is intended to reduce the amount of waste generated as much as possible. but we must not forget that, given the enormous quantity of waste produced today, the measures for reuse, recycling or disposal that can be applied are still insufficient and unable to meet the needs. the reduction of waste is therefore an essential issue. but this option implies a change in production and consumption patterns. it also involves actions to educate and raise awareness of the problem among the entire population. the commission has therefore clarified how to bear the costs of waste management, ensuring that these do not fall exclusively or predominantly on the 'weakest link' - consumers. we therefore consider the reference to the application of the 'polluter pays' principle to be dangerous.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs emine bozkurt because it reinforces the need for the turkish government to take measures to allow women to participate more fully in the social, economic and political life of turkey, despite the progress already made. the report shows that there is still a long way to go in protecting turkish women against domestic violence and honour killings and calls on the turkish government to build more shelters for women who are victims of violence.
in writing. in voting in favour of this report we simply wanted to join the defence of the rights of all turkish women, including in the accession negotiations between turkey and the european union, by stressing the need to respect human rights, which include women's rights. but we do not consider that this is the only issue to be taken into account in the negotiations with turkey. our opposition to accession negotiations is well known, as long as turkey maintains its unacceptable occupation of northern cyprus. we therefore disagree with some of the points in that report. as the adopted report states, although the new criminal code, which entered into force in june 2005, has substantially enhanced the fundamental rights of turkish women, the european directives on equality between women and men have not yet been fully transposed. we also regret that in certain parts of south-eastern turkey, girls are not registered at birth, which hinders the fight against forced marriages and honour killings due to the lack of an official identity of the victims. we also join the call to the turkish government to ensure that women from the kurdish minority are equally involved in women's rights programmes.
in this debate on the contribution to the next spring council, where the implementation of the so-called 'lisbon agenda' adopted in 2000 will be assessed, it is important to take account of what has happened in these seven years in relation to the goals and challenges proclaimed at the time, whether in terms of full employment, poverty reduction, childcare infrastructure and equipment and equal opportunities for women, or the so-called most advanced knowledge economy in the world, which would be achieved in 2010. the truth is that since 2000, the european union has been affected by slow economic and employment growth, by an increasing shift of productivity gains from workers to employers and by the corresponding worsening of social inequalities. this is why we have persistently high levels of unemployment, with poverty and social exclusion affecting more than 72 million people, and why we have a proliferation of precarious work with fewer and fewer rights, and why we have more problems with new enlargements without adequate financial responses in the community budgets. this shows that our criticisms of this strategy are more than justified. the implementation of the lisbon agenda has been limited to deepening liberalization and privatisation in a wide variety of sectors, from transport, energy, post and telecommunications to services, putting essential public services at risk, now joined by labour flexibility and the so-called flexicurity, to make it even easier to lay off workers. that is why we are advocating a fundamental change in the policies that are being pursued, whether in the lisbon strategy, the stability pact, the broad economic and employment guidelines or the community budget. in the alternative resolution which our group is tabled for this debate, we therefore consider that priority should be given to a genuine pact for economic progress and social development and to a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development based on more solidarity on the part of the more developed countries, with a better and wider distribution of community funds, aimed at economic and social cohesion, the improvement of the living conditions of all people, including immigrants, the dignity of workers and the realisation of human rights, particularly in the fields of education, health, housing and social security, without forgetting research and development.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, in the year in which the european union is celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the treaty of rome, in the year of equal opportunities for all, in the year in which my country, portugal, will hold the presidency of the european union, it is important to mention that the portuguese people voted last sunday in a referendum to decriminalize abortion up to the tenth week of pregnancy. i am justified in stressing the importance of this fact in this parliament and in this context for two additional reasons: firstly, because the decisive victory of 'yes' corresponds to the recommendations adopted by the european parliament for abortion to be legal and safe in all member states and, secondly, because, by happy coincidence, as has already been mentioned by my colleague bernard poignant, the spring council will begin on 8 march. as prime minister josé sócrates said, with this result portugal is taking another firm step towards building a more open, more tolerant and fairer society. in relation to the lisbon strategy, it is also necessary to strengthen the social component in all member states, in particular to allow a better reconciliation between family life and working life for european women and men, for example by creating and developing networks of childcare facilities for children and other dependants, and also affordable and of good quality. we need more and better jobs for women too, equal pay for equal work and we believe that without the participation of women the ambitious objectives of the lisbon strategy cannot be achieved.
mr president, mr president-in-office, today is the time to say that, thanks to the 2004 reform, the lisbon strategy is no longer limited to a set of unattainable targets - the priorities are clearer, the responsibilities are more defined. in this speech i want to talk about social policy in the context of the lisbon strategy. firstly, it is very clear that the lisbon strategy is not, as some people want to suggest, a liberal attempt that could threaten the foundations and values of the european social model. on the contrary, the lisbon strategy represents a vision which, while clearly reformist, seeks to preserve the values which underpin the european social model. the lisbon strategy therefore sets out a political orientation on the need to modernise social protection systems, a necessary response to what is happening in europe and the world. as a general guideline, it is well stated that social policies should not be seen as a burden but rather as a factor capable of positively influencing economic growth, not only by increasing productivity and competitiveness but also by providing higher levels of social cohesion and access to fundamental rights, thus becoming an important instrument for ensuring social peace and political stability, without which there is no lasting economic progress. because of the 2004 reform, i am now more optimistic than in the past about the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the european union has entered a phase of economic acceleration and can grow more than the united states of america. investment in the first half of 2006 alone grew by 6%; the growth in exports is expected to exceed 5%; the unemployment rate is falling and has already reached 1998 levels. 2006 was the best year of the decade and the outlook for 2007 is very positive. these values confirm, on the ground, the intended objectives of the lisbon strategy - a combined effect of sustained economic growth creating more and better jobs, a continuous improvement in the living standards of the citizens of the european union without loss of competitiveness and respect for the values of the european social model. i therefore congratulate josé manuel durão barroso and the commission on the reform they have decided to introduce in the lisbon strategy at the right time.
the question period is now over (b6-0003/2007). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 41 by mr evgeni kirilov (h-0002/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the fate of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor and eu-libya relations how does the commission assess the impact of its policy of cooperation with libya in the light of the recent death sentences handed down in that country following a trial marked by serious human rights violations? does the commission intend to review the situation and its policy instruments if no developments are visible?
question no 42 by mr zbigniew krzysztof kuzmiuk (h-0006/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: problems with the supply of energy raw materials imported from russia in late 2006 and early 2007, eu member states - including poland - were threatened with a breakdown in natural gas supplies as a result of the russia-belarus dispute, and on 8 january 2007 russia even suspended oil supplies to poland, germany, the czech republic and slovakia, also as a result of the dispute with belarus. unfortunately, this is the latest example of russia using the supply of raw materials for energy as a means of exerting political pressure on member states and third countries and proving that russia is not reliable in energy matters. how does the commission intend to tackle these problems in the european energy strategy currently being drawn up?
question no 43 by mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0054/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the middle east peace channel on 10 december, representatives of jordan, israel, palestine and the world bank examined the feasibility study for the construction of a "peace" or "two seas" canal, a 180 km pipeline linking the red sea to the dead sea. the economic importance (irrigation of the negev desert, feeding hydroelectric power plants and desalination facilities with an annual production of 1,000 million cubic meters of drinking water), the diplomatic importance (dialogue and cooperation between israel, palestine and jordan) and the environmental importance (dealing with the risk of the dead sea completely drying up by 2050) of this project is enormous. the overall cost is estimated at $15.5 million, which the world bank has already raised. given the multi-sectoral importance of this channel, does the commission participate in the implementation (project/financing) of this major project in the framework of euro-mediterranean cooperation? if not, will it participate financially in the next phase, which will involve the expenditure of $3 billion over the next five years to complete the project? could the european investment bank also be called upon as an investor to provide the necessary resources?
question no 44 by alain hutchinson (h-1072/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: full liberalisation of postal services on 1 january 2009 on 18 october the commission adopted the proposal for a directive amending directive 97/67/ec as regards the full implementation of the internal market for community postal services. this is a total liberalization of postal services, that is, of small consignments weighing less than 50 grams. two aspects are often criticised: the fact that the commission decided to maintain the date of 1 january 2009 for the entry into force of the directive when it is known that many member states will not be ready to implement it by that date; and the inadequacy of the measures envisaged by the commission for the financing of the universal postal service, which was denounced by ten historical operators in the postal services sector. what is the commission's response to these criticisms? has the commission analysed in detail the impact of full liberalisation of postal services in sweden, where this liberalisation has been in progress for several years? have there been price increases for stamps for small consignments and a loss of public sector jobs in sweden? if so, in what proportions? what is the satisfaction rate of the swedes with the liberalization that has taken place? can the swedish experience, which is a concrete example and not the product of study or theoretical or ideological speculation, be considered a real success?
question no 45 by mr georgios toussas (h-1085/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: banking abuses the generally anti-people policy of the eu and the governments of the member states has given audacity to the illegal usurious practices of the banks which abuse huge sums from borrowers and workers in general. characteristically, the bank of greece has imposed fines of eur 25 million on credit institutions for opaque/abusive practices, but at the same time has relaxed the penalties in force for uncovered cheques and refuses to reveal the names of the banks that have been sanctioned. what is the commission's position on the publication in the media of the names of banks sanctioned by the supervisory authorities of the member states for illegal abusive practices in order to at least inform and partly protect borrowers and depositors in general?
member of the commission. as i said in my reply, we are aware of the concerns about the level of interest rates charged in greece and have responded to several written questions on this subject. but the definition of retail interest rates is mainly a matter for financial institutions and it is not as such the subject of eu rules and regulations. however, as explained in earlier responses, we have undertaken a series of initiatives that could have an impact on the level of retail interest rates in europe, including initiatives on mortgage credit and consumer credit. in june 2005 we also launched sector-specific competition inquiries in the areas of business insurance and retail banking. yes, it is known to us that the level of interest rates charged in greece are very high, but we do not have particular responsibility to make any change in that, nor is it likely that the union will have responsibility in this area in the future. in other member states where the winds of competition have blown, the interest rate charged to consumers has come down dramatically. i have personal experience in this regard from my home member state. when a retail financial institution from another member state announced that it was coming to set up shop in the member state i know best, interest rates contracted overnight.
member of the commission. i am not in a position to answer your specific question, mr martin, but i will have it investigated.
member of the commission. well, as the honourable member is aware, the big european project in this area would be the sepa project for the single european payments area. of course, this will apply in the initial stages in the eurozone. good manners prevent me from advising what should be done in britain about the eurozone, but of course i am sure that the answer to your question is ‘more competition’.
question no 46 by mrs sarah ludford (h-0007/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: laundering of money the london county council has recently made a credible case that the european union's fight against money laundering - and thus potential terrorist financing - in the form of an effective deterrence and detection regime for criminal practices is being hampered by the inconsistent, uneven and inadequate application of the 2001 second money laundering directive by member states. with the implementation of the third anti-money laundering directive due in 2007, what is the commission's strategy to ensure a rapid, appropriate and uniform implementation of eu legislation on this essential matter in all member states, making the most of the possibilities to detect suspicious transactions and minimising unnecessary costs and red tape for honest customers and businesses?
member of the commission. as you are aware, member states are required to have fully transposed the third anti-money-laundering directive into national law by 15 december 2007 at the latest. this directive reinforces our actions in the fight against terrorist financing. it provides for harmonised rules under which the obliged entities and persons can apply customer due diligence procedures, taking into account the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. in order to help member states ensure a timely and proper transposition of this directive, we are following a threefold strategy. firstly, in november 2006 we held an initial transposition workshop. the objective of this meeting was to exchange views and provide clarity on issues of interpretation or any other problem linked to transposition. secondly, we have set up a european platform between the financial intelligence units. these are the national authorities competent to prevent and counter money-laundering and terrorist financing by receiving and analysing suspicious transaction reports filed by credit and financial institutions, as well as by selected non-financial businesses and professions. the fius are directly involved in the enforcement of the directive. within the european platform, regular meetings are organised to exchange information, notably on the provision of feedback to reporting entities. thirdly, we support the work carried out by the joint anti-money-laundering task force which the committee of european banking supervisors has created in association with the european insurance supervisors and the securities markets supervisors. the objective of this task force is to enable the sharing of experience and best practices between financial services supervisors. this is crucial for a consistent implementation of the directive across the european union. the commission participates as an observer.
member of the commission. i think that what the honourable member says is quite reasonable. from my knowledge of previous directives, practice varies from member state to member state. furthermore, within member states, it probably varies between financial institutions – i am aware of that too, but you must remember it is quite early days. i know that we are now on the third anti-money-laundering directive, but people are learning and, hopefully, with the processes we have set up, such as the bodies i have just referred to, best practices can be established and then people can learn from one another. i would not rule out making some guidelines in the future, as the honourable member referred to. perhaps that will be done in the future, either by the commission or some agency on our behalf through all these processes. however, as the honourable member will understand, we have gone for the risk-based approach, which leaves a fair degree of flexibility in the hands of the entities, and that leads to some of the problems we have just outlined. on the other hand, if you went for the more prescriptive approach, line by line, it would probably take ages to get agreement between the different member states because of the different cultures in this particular area. hopefully, we are learning, and i do not rule out any future initiative that would bring greater consistency in this area, which is what, i believe, everybody desires.
questions 47 and 48 will be answered in writing.
question no 49 by mr carl schlyter (h-1081/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: prohibition of raw materials obtained in violation of international law for more than 30 years, the dineh and hopi indians of black mesa, new york, have been fighting against coal mining on their land and the consequences of it. earlier this year, the coal mine and the pipeline that used the indians' only water supply was shut down. unfortunately, the joy was short-lived, as there are plans for a reopening and enlargement of the mine, with subsequent forced relocations. black mesa mountain is sacred to those people and it would be like letting a company mine stones from notre dame de paris (the mountain is considered a woman). will not the demolition of sacred symbols of a religion constitute a violation of religious freedom? does the commission intend to prohibit the import of raw materials obtained in violation of international law and, consequently, to prohibit the import of products of the companies concerned if they enlarge their holdings?
member of the commission. i should like to thank the honourable member for asking this question. the european union seeks to uphold the universality and indivisibility of human rights – civil, political, economic, social and cultural – as reaffirmed by the 1993 world conference on human rights in vienna. the commission understands that the dineh and hopi indians would like to preserve their identity by controlling mining activities on their territory. while the commission is not convinced that the functioning of the coal plant would breach any relevant instruments of international law protecting religious freedom, it nonetheless takes the rights of indigenous peoples very seriously, as set out in the commission’s may 1998 working document on indigenous peoples. however, the production of coal in the united states is subject to environmental rules, and the overall issue of rights in this instance falls within the competence of the us government. on the more general issue of whether import bans of coal would be effective in upholding the rights of people in specific localities, it would be difficult to determine the specific origin of coal being imported into the european union. consequently, a ban of this sort would be difficult to implement in practice.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission understands very well that the region where the dineh and hopi indians live is very important for their religious beliefs, and i do not contend otherwise. we also understand that their rights are protected in the us constitution, and so it is principally a matter for the us courts and not for us to intervene. i would just repeat what i said, that import bans of the sort being envisaged are really not a desirable way, in the commission’s view, of dealing with such issues. an import ban would have no effect if the coal in question were exported to countries other than the european union, which would no doubt be the case, so any sanction that we introduced would, in our view, make no material difference to the objective situation of these indigenous peoples.
question 50 is therefore adjourned, since its author is not present.
since they concern the same subject, the following questions will be referred together. question no 51 by mr brian crowley, substituted by mr sean ó neachtain (h-0030/07) subject: negotiations on world trade can the european commission make a statement on the likelihood of the doha round of world trade negotiations being seriously resumed in the near future? question no 52 by mr pedro guerreiro (h-0069/07) subject: the european parliament's proposal to establish a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) is not yet adopted. subject: negotiations within the wto. whereas several un reports have denounced the increase in income inequalities, in social and economic terms, between and within countries over the past few years, in a context where poverty and unemployment rates remain high or are increasing, while the profits of large transnational corporations are rising and wealth is being concentrated - a reality which is of course not unconnected with the sharp increase in trade and capital liberalization on a world scale; in view of the recent contacts between the eu council presidency, the european commission and the us administration, i ask the commission what proposals and timetable it is putting forward for the wto negotiations, which are currently at an impasse, particularly on agriculture, non-agricultural products (including textiles and clothing) and services.
member of the commission. mr president, i want to give this house a substantive assessment of where things stand on the world trade talks. the davos meeting of wto trade ministers in january signalled the formal resumption of work in geneva across all the negotiating groups. what lay behind this was an injection of new political commitment to the negotiations at senior levels, including from president bush. i believe this is sincere and that there is, therefore, a new level of political investment in the process, which creates a fresh opportunity for finding success. on this basis, the director-general of the wto announced in the trade negotiating committee on 31 january that negotiations in geneva should restart at multilateral level in all the negotiating groups. farm subsidies remain the gateway to a deal. but a breakthrough inside agriculture must trigger a meaningful commitment to reductions in industrial tariffs and, further down the line, specific market-opening commitments in trade in services. in these areas, we are looking for meaningful and substantial moves by emerging economies in the g-20 group, without which it will not be possible to conclude the round. in the meantime, us negotiators have started to turn the corner, but they have not reached the point of showing to us what new reduction of trade-distorting farm subsidies they intend to table. this is indispensable to the progress we are seeking. susan schwab, the us trade representative, is reaching out to the democratic congressional leadership in order to prepare the ground and to see how she can meet some of their requirements for an extension of the administration’s fast-track negotiating authority, the trade promotion authority, but she has not, so far, been ready to make the necessary jump either to agreement with congress, or convergence with the us trade partners on key aspects of the current negotiation. the administration’s preliminary proposal last week for a new farm bill was welcome but somewhat disappointing in this context. if we are to have a successful outcome in the wto, the us will need to align the new farm bill with more ambitious cuts and disciplines in trade-distorting subsidies negotiated as part of the doha round. on timing, however, the us roadmap is somewhat clearer. a breakthrough on core issues in the doha development agenda is the platform on which the bush administration says it will request a new or extended tpa before its expiry in june. that implies a breakthrough in the next few months on the big numbers in the key parts of the negotiations. it is in our interest to try to seize the opportunity that now exists to reach a conclusion. i do not, myself, think that postponing a push for a deal into the summer or later is a realistic option. given all the uncertainties in the united states and elsewhere, we would risk losing the fragile momentum that has been created, and this judgement accords with that of the european council as reflected in the presidency’s summing-up at the general affairs council on monday. a dda outcome would be very worth having, economically, politically and for the sake of the international system, and therefore we will continue to negotiate constructively but toughly for a deal.
member of the commission. the commission tabled a substantive offer concerning all aspects of the agricultural negotiations in october 2005. subsequently, in the summer of 2006, i indicated what further flexibility we would have within our mandate to improve our offer, should that be matched by offers from our negotiating partners both in agriculture and in other parts of the negotiations. our firm view is – and in this i speak under the guidance of my colleague, mrs fischer boel, commissioner for agriculture and rural development – that such a strengthened offer, should it be justified by what others do in these talks, would be within the mandate which is provided by the reforms to the common agricultural policy that were agreed in, and have been implemented since, 2003.
i would like to ask the following question, which is in line with the previous answer, and which concerns the european commission's assessment of possible new concessions, particularly in the field of agriculture, so that the negotiations in geneva - which i believe are already under way, since their opening has been announced - can finally reach agreement on a comprehensive package which, as you have mentioned, includes the issue of industrial goods and services. on the other hand, i would like to know if you could comment on how the agreement at council level for the conclusion of future free trade areas with the emerging economies of asia coincides with the current opening of negotiations in the wto?
questions 53 and 54 will be answered in writing.
question no 55 by mr bernd posselt (h-1067/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: rural development in the bavarian-bohemian border region how does the commission assess the possibilities for rural development in the border region between bavaria and bohemia, a region which suffered so much in the second half of the 20th century, both from the german and the czech sides? to what extent do rural development programmes also cover projects of a cultural nature?
question no 56 by mr papastamkos (h-1084/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: review of the regulatory framework for de minimis aid on 12 december 2006, the commission announced the revision of the regulatory framework for de minimis aid, extending its scope to the marketing and processing of agricultural products. what are the 'specific conditions' for granting de minimis aid to undertakings marketing and processing agricultural products? what is the relationship between this regulatory framework and the specific rules in force in the agricultural sector (which have so far excluded agriculture from de minimis aid)? what are the limits for the cumulation of de minimis aid with state aid? what are the expected consequences of this more flexible regulatory framework for the development of the eu's agricultural economy, in particular greece's?
question no 57 by mr josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil (h-1088/06) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: draft reform of the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables the current draft regulation on the reform of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables amends the current aid scheme for the processing of certain citrus fruits (regulation (ec) no 2202/96 oj l 297, 21.11.1996, p. 49), converting it into a system of area-related aid integrated into the single payment mechanism (regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 oj l 270, 21.10.2003, p. 1). after calculating the amount of aid in relation to the total area devoted to citrus fruit in each member state, italy will receive around eur 700 per hectare of citrus fruit, greece around eur 600 and spain around eur 300. given that the level of aid received by the fruit and vegetables sector is minimal and lower than that received by other community sectors, has the commission calculated whether the overall average amount allocated to the fruit and vegetables sector has sufficient margin to maintain this unbundled aid in its present form? if such a margin does exist, on the basis of which technical reports was it decided to change the current scheme and convert it into a system of unbundled aid? has the commission assessed the impact of the unbundling of aid on the community juice industry and the possible repercussions on prices and the import quota for juices from third countries, in particular brazil?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time to the commission is closed.
i would like to begin by congratulating mrs batzeli on the good and difficult work she has done and thanking the commissioner once again for her presence in this chamber. the political debates, the hearings, the meetings with the representatives of the sector, the visits we have made to the wine-growing regions of several member states, as well as the several hundred amendments, clearly demonstrate the interest that members have taken in the analysis of this subject so important for european agriculture. there is a consensus on the need for reform and it is fair to say that no alternatives to the model presented by the commission have been put forward. there are, however, marked differences between parliament and the commission as regards the timing, intensity and form of implementation of the main measures. it is certainly necessary to grub up poor quality vines, but it is impossible not to start with illegal vines, nor is it conceivable that the final decision on grubbing up should not be left to the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not possible to defend the genuineness and the typical character of european wines and at the same time allow free entry of concentrated must from third countries. this report is a testament to the good faith and commitment of this parliament. i hope that the commission will accept our proposals so that we can carry out a reform which is satisfactory for the sector.
as the commissioner confirmed in her speech, the main line of action in the reform she intends to carry out in relation to the wine cmo is to use the grubbing up of the vineyard as a means of balancing the market in the wine sector. this means that the less developed regions will be particularly affected, particularly family farms and low-income farmers, which will have disastrous social and environmental effects and will increase the desertification of inland areas leading to abandonment. the consequences could be disastrous, given that we are talking about large areas of southern countries such as portugal, and the tragedy of forest fires is increasing in the summer. we therefore insist on defending the culture of vine and wine, which is an integral part of european civilization and, in particular, of the mediterranean. we want our farmers to continue to produce better and better wine and to keep alcohol distillation at the mouth. we reject the fact that the oenological characteristics of wine made from grapes are being neglected and replaced by industrial wine made from imported musts from third countries. commissioner, our wines of good quality must be defended!
i repeat my opposition to the second goepel report as strongly as i did to the first. i cannot agree with the reasons he gives when they lead to opposite conclusions. i regret that i do not have time to demonstrate this exhaustively, but i ask the following question: what better impact study could there be than the one that reveals the figures for the current inequity in the distribution of the first pillar of the cap? and when we talk about co-financing, is it not the same as renationalising the common agricultural policy to oblige the member states with fewer resources to contribute from their own budgets to common policies? i think that this report presents a conservative position - which i do not share - which is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and reveals an attitude of clear protection for the greatest beneficiaries of the common agricultural policy, which i cannot but repudiate. i also have to protest at the parliament's decision, following the goepel reports, to freeze 20% of rural development funds for 2007. farmers cannot be held hostage to the disputes between institutions. i therefore appeal to common sense and the spirit of compromise to ensure that this unacceptable impasse is resolved quickly.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, five words: the first is a word of thanks to mr cláudio fava for the quality of his work and the effort he has put into presenting his report to us this year; to the vice-presidents of the commission, baroness ludford, mr dimitrakopoulos and mr özdemir, for the loyal cooperation i have had; to the coordinators of the political groups and the members of the committee i chaired, the work presented is also the result of their efforts; and to the quality, the very quality of the secretariat that has accompanied us. secondly, i believe that the european parliament is playing its part. some wanted to devalue or hide this issue because it could be embarrassing to our allies. we didn't. we affirmed our values. as commissioner frattini said here today, security cannot be at all costs and that is where the difference lies. not just because they're our values, but because when we don't, there are always innocent victims who are harmed. in this case, there were. we have received and heard from some of these victims in our committee. i am appalled by the cynicism of those who consider this to be inevitable and that we should regard it as collateral damage. thirdly, we have done our job without extending our mandate. we have not artificially extended our mandate, contrary to what some would have preferred to do in order to fight a political fight. we've assessed the facts, identified the reprehensible behavior, pointed out the omissions, and proposed over 40 recommendations to make it much more difficult for these events to happen again in the future. fourthly, we could have done more. we could if we had more cooperation. i would like to thank the european commission for the excellent cooperation it has given us in the person of vice-president franco frattini. i regret that in most member states this cooperation has not been very effective. in the case, for example, of the countries involved in the alleged secret detention, we had excellent cooperation from romania but terrible cooperation from poland. it was the only country where no member of the government or no member of parliament had a meeting with us. i understand and appreciate that this reinforces the suspicion towards these countries. i denounce the lack of cooperation from the council, which sent us truncated and partial documents suggesting that they were authentic and original. i consider this unacceptable in the light of the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions. mr president, i believe that our report can and should be improved, but we are faced with a problem of political responsibility. are we going to defend our values and our citizens or not? i believe that some of our colleagues were genuinely convinced that these allegations were false and that nothing would have happened, no secret arrests, no torture, no illegal transportation, no illegal detention of prisoners. but we have had several witnesses in our committee and we have had the newspapers report the main witness, the president of the united states of america, who has come to acknowledge the existence of the programme on extrajudicial extraditions. because there's no room to deny facts, to deny evidence. it's time we all worked together. i would like to conclude by saying that we must strengthen transatlantic dialogue and collaboration on common causes, in respect for our values, in respect for our laws, in respect for international law, and that is also what we are talking about here today.
i congratulate mr cláudio fava on this report which honours the european parliament and saves europe's credibility, when so many governments and politicians are burying it under the pretext that they saw nothing, know nothing and did nothing but help allies in the fight against terrorism. this report details the lack of control at european airports which allowed the cia to operate a network of private planes in so-called 'extraordinary renditions' and shows that for the illegal transport of prisoners, at least to guantanamo, us military aircraft were also used, which stopped at airports and military bases in european territory and used facilities at these bases as temporary detention centres under the cover of operations such as 'enduring fredom'. it was not enough that the european governments which authorized such passage, with or without their knowledge, had compromised the security of their countries and of europe and the competence of the services responsible for ensuring that security. they have also tarnished the suitability of european military institutions by making them objectively complicit by action or omission. the report also shows that european governments, like the portuguese, continued to authorize and not control flights to guantánamo, an illegal prison, not a secret, even after this temporary committee of the european parliament had been set up, and that they tried to keep national and european parliamentarians in the dark about the fact that such operations were continuing. that is not how you cooperated in the fight against terrorism. such methods will never allow the real terrorists to be brought to justice. (the president cut the speaker off)
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in this debate you have commented on a number of the findings of the report of the tdip ad hoc committee; there have been very different contributions. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european union's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. or, to put it another way, that this fight can only be won by applying the rule of law. the council was finally consulted again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council itself has no competence in this area and i must reject the accusations which have just been made against mr solana in one of his last contributions, because here too he has offered cooperation, as far as possible. but there have also been a number of initiatives in the member states - and this was also reflected in the debate - particularly by the parliaments. these studies are also in line with the requirements mentioned in your report. i believe it is important and right to investigate and to bring the facts to light. i also regret that at various points in the report, assumptions are turning into facts. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i do not want to prejudge the interim report of the bundestag, but the investigations have made it clear that there has been no misconduct on the part of the german authorities. in particular, no evidence was found to support the repeated allegations that german authorities had knowledge of the arrest and detention of mr el-masri. the kurnaz case is also currently being examined by the committee of inquiry. it became clear that the us government's 2002 offer to release mr kurnaz, as alleged in the report, did not exist in this form. but the committee will continue to look into this matter. you have also referred in various places to articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty. it may seem to you a formal argument, but the council has no legitimacy to take such measures. commissioner frattini also mentioned the role of the intelligence services. there have also been contributions from you emphasizing the importance of the work of intelligence services, although the basis on which this work is done is of course important. but here too it is primarily the task of the national member states and ultimately of the parliaments to define the requirements for these intelligence services. the euro-atlantic relations were also mentioned in several contributions. the fight against international terrorism, but also measures on internal security in general, which are not confined to one member state of the european union but have a general application, can only be carried out in very close cooperation with the united states. we should expand this cooperation. it is also important to make clear in this euro-atlantic cooperation on what basis the fight against international terrorism must be based, namely on the common values that unite the european union and the united states.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank all those who have spoken and also those who have wanted to acknowledge the contribution which the european commission and i have personally made to the work of the committee of inquiry of this parliament. i think the principle we can all agree on is that security and fundamental freedoms cannot be set against each other. there is no contradiction between the right to the security of citizens and the precise and timely respect for the fundamental rights of individuals. we also know, in the fight against terrorism, that even a single violation, even a single violation, committed during the investigation, once discovered, then forces the courts to punish those responsible for that violation, to reject that evidence and thus allows the terrorists to strengthen their propaganda against us. this is a triple blow to the fight against terrorism. that's why for a reason that's also part of our counterterrorism strategy we have to follow the rules when investigating: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are respected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules are respected. i would like to say that there have been too few final convictions of terrorists accused of very serious crimes in the world, compared with the investigations that have been launched. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the added value of this parliamentary inquiry will also be clear to those members who have expressed doubts today. firstly, it would be an added value if, as i hope and as many of you have said, we refrain from saying that the report is a condemnation of the united states of america and instead declare that we want to establish the truth without expressing general condemnation and without passing judgments, which are the responsibility of the courts. i also believe that those who have expressed doubts in their speeches will also agree with the importance of this report, provided that we emphasize one point: the commission has not yet taken any decision on the matter, but it is still lacking in evidence, which will have to be established by national investigations. i also take this statement to reject with utter indignation the accusations, without any evidence, made against president barroso, fortunately by only one member of this parliament, mr catania: i believe that these are unfounded and undignified accusations which i feel i must firmly reject. the added value of the inquiry, culminating in mr fava's report, is that it sends a message of unity and firmness from this parliament, especially to the terrorists. i believe that this message should be an unmistakable indication that the strength of the law and respect for fundamental rights will enable us to strike terrorism more forcefully, not less forcefully. the political message to the terrorists must therefore be: the report is not to be welcomed, because the institutions, by following the law and punishing those who break it, will be stronger and not weaker, precisely because terrorists break the laws, which we must respect. that is why i continue to hope that the european parliament will speak with a large majority, so that it will encourage the member states, in fulfilling an institutional and moral duty, to ascertain the whole truth and to change the rules for the future, starting with those governing the secret services. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we need greater euro-atlantic cooperation, greater cooperation with the united states, in the name of the dual principle of security and respect for individual rights. i think that is the political lesson we can take from today's debate. let 's hear it .
in writing. what does the report presented by the temporary committee tell us? - that it continues a programme of kidnapping 'suspects' (a fact confirmed by bush), who are subsequently held in illegal detention without any charge or guarantee of respect for the most elementary rights of defence, and are brutally tortured; - that the member states were aware of this 'programme' in the context of eu-nato relations (high-ranking us officials have made statements to this effect, which have not been refuted so far), and did not exercise the control they had over their airspace and airports; - that the serious lack of concrete answers to the questions raised by the bodies which should have taken the initiative to clarify them only reinforces the validity of the well-documented allegations; - that in-depth investigations should be launched, in particular by setting up committees of inquiry in national parliaments. these conclusions are in line with the pcp's longstanding condemnation of the criminal behaviour of the us administration, which violates international law and the most basic human rights. pcp, which presented the initiative to create a commission of inquiry in the assembly of the republic - to clarify, establish responsibility and prevent such atrocities from continuing - and which was rejected by the ps, psd and cds-pp.
in writing. i abstained from the final vote for the following reasons: 1. this report is untimely and ineffective; 2. a decision that reconciles the duty to engage in the defence of human rights with support for the fight against terrorism and its causes is acceptable only if it generates a strong consensus; 3. this report has not generated such a consensus and has not produced the necessary political synthesis on the subject; 4. the document devotes too much attention to the investigation of events that have occurred in several member states, to the detriment of the necessary conclusion of emphasizing the irrevocable right of citizens to defense and the integrity of states within a framework of respect for individual human rights; finally, a report on this sensitive subject should be coordinated with the intervention of the european council and take account of any decisions taken by the council of europe.
in writing. it is not surprising that the german presidency is using the argument to try to 'shake the waters off the hood' and escape its political responsibilities in relation to 'the use by the cia of european countries for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners'. it is astonishing, says the eu council, that it has no powers when it takes a position behind a political position on everything that interests it and when it is all too obvious that these issues have been dealt with in the framework of eu-nato and eu-us relations. as has been demonstrated once again, at least what can be said about such attitudes is that they point either to an attempt to hide this unacceptable violation of international law and the most elementary human rights, or to connivance and even subservience to the united states. the report presented by the temporary committee - which has given names, faces and voices to many of the victims - is another contribution to the full discovery of the truth and to the national parliaments - the bodies effectively responsible for monitoring the actions of governments - taking up their responsibilities, as the pcp has been demanding and proposing for a long time in the assembly of the republic.
in writing. the fava report, or the cia report, deserves my vote against for four reasons. the intransigence i share in defending human rights, the rule of law and democracy is not guaranteed by political action which is determined more by the logic of the primary anti-americanism of a certain left than by the strict defence of these values. the european parliament is not responsible for monitoring the member states. this task is primarily the responsibility of the national parliaments and the violation of this rule is in itself a political error and a legal mistake. the report suffers from the incurable disease of drawing definitive conclusions from unproven and controversial facts, turning convictions into truths and insinuations into facts. as regards portugal, even with the amendments adopted, there remains some imbalance between what is proven (or even stated by the alleged victims) and what is concluded or, worse still, conjectured. finally, i would like to commend my colleague carlos coelho, whose work has been remarkable in promoting balance, reasonableness and the defence of fundamental principles and values. i think that if i had been rapporteur instead of chairman of the committee the report would have been more balanced.
in writing. this regulation aims to clarify the fishing gear which can be considered to be driftnets by harmonising a common definition for all the relevant regulations. drifting nets have a strong impact on fisheries resources and marine ecosystems, as well as economic impacts (competitive and income reduction) on fishermen using other gear, including artisanal gear. the european union has incorporated into its acquis (regulation no 354/1992) un resolution 44/225 on the implementation of a moratorium on the use of driftnets (although it contains some regional exceptions at community level). we have therefore supported the content of this report as a way of improving the control and reducing the impact of these gears in national waters, particularly in the exclusive economic zones of the azores and madeira, as these are frequented by fleets from other member states which use these gears for targeted fishing for tuna and other marine species, either through regulatory omissions or illegally.
in writing. i inadvertently voted in favour of the proposed legislative resolution when i intended to vote against it, as i did in the case of the legislative proposal. i therefore ask for my vote (for or against) in the legislative resolution to be corrected.
in writing. as we have said before, the central point is that the commission's proposal is not a proposal for genuine modulation, i.e. a proposal to increase aid to those who receive the least or receive nothing, by reducing support to those who receive a lot, in order to ensure greater equity in the distribution of aid between producers, countries and products and to support small and mediumsized farmers and family farming. we are in favour of the commission putting forward a new proposal to create a genuine, compulsory modulation, making it more equitable and freeing up financial resources, introducing a ceiling on aid per holding (cap) and a percentage increase in aid for farmers who receive less aid from the cap (modulation), such as proposing a 15% or 20% increase for small and mediumsized farmers who receive less than € 5 000 in aid and, even from this value, taking into account various situations. without this, we risk widening existing inequalities. we therefore insist that the commission should reformulate its proposal to prevent a decision in this area from justifying the renationalisation of the cap's costs. but so far the commission has not done so. that is why we abstained.
in writing. the european parliament had already rejected the commission's proposal for a voluntary modulation of direct payments under the cap of up to 20%. the proposal would have the effect of using the money for farmers in the second pillar of the cap - rural development - i.e. it would be transferred to the national budgets of the member states which decided to apply this modulation. the abolition of support to farmers would raise competition issues between farmers in countries that would not apply modulation and farmers in countries that did, and also between them, depending on the level of modulation chosen. i therefore agree with the rapporteur, mr goepel, that the commission proposal should be rejected again.
in writing. the trans-european networks are a commitment to ensuring accessibility within the european area, they are at the heart of the lisbon strategy, as investments in innovation and job creation and through the creation of structures that contribute to accelerating cohesion and socio-economic development. this is why the limited increase in financial resources available for ten-t and the slow progress in implementing priority ten-t projects are major concerns. it is therefore essential that the member states give the highest priority to the implementation of these projects and do not shy away from taking all the measures necessary to achieve them. the priority for crossborder links must be complemented by better coordination and transparency of procedures so that we can finally see the fruits of the work done over more than a decade. these projects are of the utmost importance for cohesion on the european continent, for intermodality and interoperability and, finally, for reducing traffic congestion. the decisions to be taken today will ensure that the leverage effect of community funding is increased. and today we cannot hesitate to correct the mistakes, to ensure the necessary changes and to move forward so that these projects can move forward as quickly as possible.
in writing. we consider it to be a positive step overall to adopt this document, another on the subject of climate change. it is a document that affirms or reaffirms commitments made in terms of reducing emissions and promoting alternative energy sources. however, it does not develop other equally important aspects such as the promotion of energy efficiency and the use of quality public transport, with only small and diluted references to these alternatives. it also insists on the proposal to market the emission allowances, or rather the 'right to pollute', which, as we have been saying, by its commercial nature, contradicts the stated objectives, because those who can afford it will continue to pollute, which affects in particular the countries with the weakest economies that do not have the money to buy these emission allowances. while there are positive proposals in the field of emission reduction and renewable energy, there is another set of proposals which will be difficult to implement because of the demands made on the different countries, and their opposition is known. in any case, we shall give our full attention to the implementation of some of the ideas contained here, fighting to prevent them from being exploited for new concentrations in the energy sector and for the domination of the richer countries, or to make consumers pay for the pollution caused by polluting industries.
in writing. the eu is fully committed to the fight against global terrorism, based on its human values and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. no reason, however laudable, can justify the absence of democratic legitimacy, implying that data sharing is permanently subject to parliamentary and judicial control. there are serious doubts about the processing of personal data by the us authorities, which are limited to indiscriminately accumulating data without complying with european data protection legislation and not ensuring reciprocity: american citizens in europe enjoy greater protection than europeans in america. i therefore support the need to create a common framework with the united states to safeguard the guarantees in the fight against terrorism and the sharing of sensitive information. the pnr agreement to be negotiated by the commission should be closely monitored by the european parliament.
in writing. we have always expressed our opposition to the establishment of an agreement with the united states for the sharing of personal data, whether in the case of pnr or swift. first of all because this agreement is part of a wide range of security measures (the illegal telephone tapping programme in the usa) which is based on the so-called 'fight against terrorism', a pretext for unleashing interference and aggression against countries and peoples when imperialist interests, particularly those of the usa, are at stake. secondly, because there are still no valid guarantees of respect for and safeguarding of citizens' rights, including through the application of the agreed rules on the protection of personal data, including those defined by the eu itself, or the effective control by national parliaments of these agreements. the introduction of more specific measures, more effective means of controlling the personal data to be transmitted, limiting their purpose, informing citizens and giving them access to their personal data will undoubtedly minimise the gravity of the current situation. however, what is needed is an end to this genuine security offensive which, by using the 'fight against terrorism', is putting the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens in question.
in writing. this resolution makes clear the true nature of the 'lisbon strategy' - the agenda of business and big financial and economic groups at european level - which was reinforced by the review of the strategy in 2005 and the launch of national reform programmes in all member states to force so-called structural reforms, aiming at the flexibilization of labour relations, deregulation of markets, liberalisation of services, the commodification of education and research and the privatisation of social security. the strategy now focuses on labour relations, with flexi-security, total deregulation and the liberalisation of unjustified dismissals. the disappearance of the social concerns and objectives which previously served to help conceal the true nature of the lisbon agenda is evident. in fact, since 2000, the reality in the post-strategy and post-euro european union has been one of slow economic and employment growth, worsening job insecurity, poverty, social exclusion, income inequalities and maintaining high levels of unemployment. this is why a break with the current eu policies is necessary.
in writing. the text adopted today following the commission communication on community radio spectrum policy is somewhat contradictory in some of its wording, giving the impression of trying to reconcile ideologically different positions. while it has concerns with safeguarding the provision of public services, maintaining a certain (possibly high) degree of national sovereignty in the management of radio spectrum, transferring some of the benefits of new technologies to less developed regions, returning unused frequencies to the public domain in accordance with commitments, protecting public interests and strategically important frequencies, maintaining high levels of quality of services 'in the public or general interest', among others, it does make the point of welcoming the commission's proposal to introduce a market-oriented approach to spectrum and to establish a clear legal framework providing for competition-based solutions. in the end, despite the 'good intentions', it endorses the continuation and progress of neoliberal policies and of exclusive submission to this entity, which seems divine, the 'market', thus calling into question the very provision of public services.
the european parliament, in its committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, discussed the agreements between the european union and the russian federation on visa facilitation and the readmission of illegal immigrants. with the active intervention of most of the committee members and with the special help of mr lax and mr vatanen and mrs roure, whom i would like to thank here, the debate was far from simple. it was a disturbing debate because the political landscape of the russian federation has always been present in its difficult relationship with democracy and human rights. firstly, parliament was consulted only when it was no longer possible to influence the content of the agreements. the commission and the council should have brought these agreements here earlier, in a practice of institutional loyalty, which is also required by the treaties. we know that the still intergovernmental nature of the union's foreign policy does not give us all the powers of a true parliament. the day will come when this will be the case, when the crisis of the european constitution has been overcome. the wording of the agreements and their political landscape raise many questions in parliament. the visa facilitation agreement does not guarantee genuine reciprocity between the european union and the russian federation. it is not guaranteed by its handwriting and the reality it anticipates. visas in the russian federation are unbearably complex: compulsory checks on every movement within russia, extra fees, additional permits, especially for travel to chechnya and parts of eastern russia, invitations to enter which favour corruption, bureaucratic obstacles, and finally, control over control. we all know that the simplification of visas in russia is shrouded in uncertainty. the european parliament wants and expects a strong commitment from the commission and the council to the russian authorities. despite all the difficulties, parliament welcomed the openness that the visa facilitation system brings to relations between peoples. the opening up needed for a new europe, a wider europe, a large-scale justice that we all want to build. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome one. we reject the simplistic and dangerous characterization of this agreement as a purely technical agreement. an agreement on people is never, by its nature, a technical agreement and above all an agreement on illegal immigrants to bring to our eyes the human misery of poverty and exclusion. the evil of some, which is ultimately the alienation of all of us. if there is one place where the guarantees of human rights can be weakened, it is precisely in the area of immigration. the european parliament is asking specifically about the guarantees of human rights in the accelerated readmission procedure and also about the respect of the international law status of asylum seekers and stateless persons. the speed of the procedure is not a value, value is the dignity of people across the board, with the rights that are most evident in the drama of illegal immigration, the right to defence, humane treatment in detention, family unity, physical and mental integrity. that is why the joint readmission committee, which is mentioned in the agreement, cannot exclude a human rights monitoring power, an active monitoring power, because that is the mark of europe, that is the identity of europe. human rights can only be the indispensable criterion for assessing compliance with the agreements and the good faith of the parties. commissioner, mr president of the council, a political act is always marked by its circumstances. the situation here is one of the european union seeking its own energy and the russian federation stubbornly refusing to sign essential declarations on human rights. but the union's silence here would be its denial of its culture of rights. the union cannot silence this culture. regardless of which side of the world we turn to, realpolitik cannot unlimitedly challenge utopia. a joint declaration of commitment by the council and the commission, such as the one promised and attached to parliament's decision, is the most important step we are taking today. small step or giant step? it is at the mercy of the ethical conscience of its protagonists, it is waiting to be realized. mr. president, i was hoping for less time. i'll give the other speakers more time.
the news from commissioner almunia is encouraging, but i think we need even more ambition in terms of productivity and quality of employment. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that much more can be done in this area. another key ingredient for job creation is confidence, because without confidence it is very difficult to grow investment, and factors which can help to create a climate of confidence include the balance of public accounts, the development of the internal market, a good coordination of member states' economic policies and economic and monetary policy. much has been done, much will still have to be developed. there are many reasons why we should demand job creation. of course, because unemployment is what discourages, what makes you lose faith in yourself and in others, and it is certainly the greatest factor of social exclusion. the creation of jobs is the only way to ensure that young europeans do not waste their opportunities and talents. but in the case of europe, job creation is still necessary for other reasons, the most important of which has to do with the financial sustainability of social protection systems. it is not possible in the long term to maintain the systems we have and which we have inherited if we are not able to create more jobs - this is an unquestionable truth which requires reforms in many areas of the social economic systems of the different member states. and these reforms are necessary, not because of any kind of compromise with liberalising theses which only see in the market the solution to all ills. these reforms are urgent, they are necessary and they are justified precisely in the name of the values which are at the basis of the project of european integration which it is intended to help maintain and hand down to future generations. the ability of european labour markets to respond to the challenges of globalisation, the technological revolution and demographic ageing, despite the very positive developments of the past two years, remains a critical issue.
in place of the author. mr president of the council, how do you explain the fact that the european central bank continues to threaten further interest rate increases, after having almost doubled them over the last year, with serious negative consequences for the economy, for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises and households, particularly in the most fragile economies, such as portugal? is this the community solidarity and economic and social cohesion that you are advocating? so why not change the objectives and the way the european central bank operates?
the following is the commission statement on the situation in darfur.
it is indeed significant and worrying that the german presidency is not here today representing the council. it says a lot about real interest and commitment in the new relationship with africa and working for the development of africa. three years ago i was in darfur with other members who have spoken here or are about to speak, and since then we have seen the situation deteriorate, as commissioner almunia said. the government of omar al-bashir is playing games, playing games with the international community, playing games with the security council, playing games with the european union, playing games with the african union, and the european union is saying big, eloquent words and not doing anything. it is time for the european union to act to exercise its responsibility to protect. it's time to impose a no-fly zone on chad. the european union can do this, it can do it, including with african countries with which it has synergies and can be effective on the ground. it is time to impose smart and phased sanctions, travel bans and visa restrictions as well as asset freezes on banks and others and stop treating omar al-bashir and members of his government as responsible and respectable leaders. it is time to impose an effective arms embargo. it is time to impose another type of trade embargo and, above all, the oil embargo, and here, mr president, the european union must talk seriously with china, because china, as we know, is very much responsible for this attitude on the part of the government of omar al-bashir and it is a pity that europe should just wait for the united states, as commissioner almunia has somehow suggested, because here the european union must act independently. the european union cannot depend on the disastrous views and policies of the united states in the horn of africa, which we also see in ethiopia, eritrea and somalia. it is time for the european union to act, and i join my colleagues here in calling on the council and the president of the commission to do so, so that the european union does not wait any longer and exercises the influence it really has in khartoum and in africa to change the situation and protect the people who are dying in darfur, otherwise in three years' time i and other colleagues will be with commissioner almunia or another commissioner to see that the situation has not stopped deteriorating.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mr michael gahler, on behalf of the committee on development, on budget support for developing countries [2006/2079 (ini) ] (a6-0005/2007) follows.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the report by mrs marie-hélène aubert, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the implementation of the european union action plan against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (2006/2225 (ini)) (a6-0015/2007) follows.
your protest will be noted.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. large-scale illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing has contributed significantly to the difficulties faced by the fisheries sector. large-scale illegal fishing not only affects marine ecosystems and fisheries costs, but also reduces the income of fishermen who fish legally and comply with the rules, in particular in the field of conservation of fisheries resources. large-scale illegal fishing, as the report states, is undermining the income of fisheries-dependent populations in different countries, with the worst consequences for those who have the least means to control their exclusive economic zones. large-scale illegal fishing also contributes to the deterioration of working and hygienic conditions on board vessels and the labour rights of crews. in this connection, we believe that illegal fishing, which generates substantial illicit profits for large-scale fleets, for financial groups linked to fishing and even for organized crime networks, should not be confused with the infringement of the common policy of fishing for small-scale and artisanal fleet segments, which is often carried out because of the economic crisis they are facing. it is worrying that despite the fao 2002 plan and its rapid transposition into the community acquis, with the consequent implementation, large-scale illegal fishing continues to increase due to gaps or inaccuracies in the existing rules. the fight against illegal fishing is hampered by the use of flags of convenience, failures in controls at sea, transhipments on the high seas, lack of controls in ports and lack of cooperation and coordination between relevant authorities. given that illegal fishing has its greatest impact on fleet segments operating on the high seas and on continental shelves, in particular in economically less developed countries, cooperation between states and between international fisheries organisations in combating this type of fishing is vital by providing the necessary means, including financial, for the implementation of the necessary measures such as effective control of fishing activities. the reinforcement of deterrent measures must be accompanied by improvements in the traceability of fishery products, as has already been stressed, and eco-labelling is relevant here. it is also important, as the report states, to strengthen port state controls on landings and transhipments of third country vessels. we believe that the existing measures already cover the main issues, but that they now need to be implemented more rigorously and fairly and that there needs to be greater international coordination. the question is not simply whether to introduce more and more restrictive measures for the fishing industry, particularly if their impact or unilateral nature has the perverse effect of further benefiting vessels operating illegally. vessels from third countries operating in the exclusive economic zones of the member states should be subject to the rules of the common fisheries policy and existing national requirements. it is obvious that it is always possible to improve existing rules and to supplement them where they are omitted or incomplete. in this respect, we consider this report to be an important contribution which, with one or other reservation, deserves our general agreement. however, we consider it to be at least premature to place the fight against illegal fishing within the framework of a future maritime policy for the european union, which we are only now beginning to discuss in the framework of the green paper presented by the commission. we agree with greater international cooperation and coordination and at the level of the european union, but we must avoid centralizing situations and safeguard the exclusive powers of control of the member states, which are the ones who know each of their exclusive economic zones best.
madam president, commissioner, chairman of the committee on fisheries, we must all join in congratulating our rapporteur, who has done an excellent job, and we must all start by saying that the situation we are in today is absolutely unacceptable. we cannot tolerate that, for example, in the case of bluefin tuna, which is the most studied fish from this point of view, the quantity of illegal, unreported and unregulated fish exceeds by 50% the quantity of those that are legally traded. this leads to a total degradation of resources and also to a degradation of the value at which fish is sold and thus to the ruin of fishermen. this is a situation which the community cannot tolerate any longer. of all the measures that have been suggested here as a way of tackling the problem, i would like to highlight, in fact, traceability as the essential key to success. that is the measure we have to ensure is adopted in the very short term and if it is done rigorously i am sure we will have a very different situation shortly.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner almunia, i would first like to congratulate mr montoro romero on the excellent quality of the report he has presented to us here, which, as he said, has received the unanimous support of the committee on economic affairs. i would like to stress, however, that the european parliament once again welcomes the bank's activities and, in particular, its governance model. the eib has been improving the quality of its work and is succeeding in doing so by increasing the transparency of its operations and the clarity and loyalty with which it accepts its relationship with other institutions, notably the european parliament. in addition, the eib regularly commits to better service quality and new partner targets as part of its core mission and has consistently succeeded in meeting these strategic objectives. we now hope that the eib will once again respond positively to the suggestions and recommendations made in this report. in this context, it is very important that the bank's financial activity continue to be directed towards supporting projects aimed at promoting energy efficiency and the development of renewable energies, reaching even higher levels of commitment. it is also very important that it can significantly increase support for economic and social activities outside the european union, in particular in africa, latin america and the associated mediterranean countries. the eib cannot and should not, as the report acknowledges, compete with private intermediary financial institutions and activities when these institutions are available and in a position to intervene in projects, but it is essential that the institution remains committed to the objectives of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and that it assumes the concrete and specific responsibilities arising from this commitment. it is therefore essential to step up action in the field of infrastructure financing but also in support of the more fragile productive sector which today consists of the thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises operating on the european market and creating a substantial share of jobs. the promotion of economic and social exclusion is a core mission of the european union and the bank, as the union's financial institution, has a decisive and key role to play in achieving this objective. these are probably the most important messages that the european parliament can and should convey on this occasion, since support for the bank's activities and judgments about its quality are not in question again.
the rapporteur. i would first like to thank all the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the rapporteurs for the opinions of the various committees which have delivered opinions on this report, for their support and for the quality of their contributions. i also thank commissioner almunia for the encouragement he has given me on several occasions. we have recently heard the president of the commission say in parliament that europe cannot have the audacity to speak with one voice to the world on energy policy when it is absolutely incapable of speaking with 27 voices at home. this is probably also the most important message that is conveyed with the report under consideration and this message has a certain addressee: the european council and the member states and an appropriate date to be received, the spring summit to be held in brussels on 8 and 9 march. it is therefore time to move from mere declarations of intent to the pursuit of facts and this change of attitude must take place now or it will never take place. this is certainly not the best time to make a demanding analysis of the nature, causes and consequences of the various energy shocks. the report has a lot to say on these matters, and even if it did not, we would all be able to distinguish the distinguishing features of each of the four oil shocks that the european economy has experienced over the last fifty years. it is clear that from the point of view of the new economic paradigm, which we can call 'globalization', and from the political/strategic point of view, which we can call 'lack of multilateralism', we are in a completely different situation today from that which existed in the middle of the last century. but it is precisely for this reason that we must have the intelligence and the humility to recognize that different problems always require different solutions and that the most complex problems require the most ambitious and radical solutions. it is undeniable that the turbulence on energy markets and the volatility of prices have resulted in a slower rate of economic growth and a higher rate of price increases, and it is unthinkable that these disadvantages have not been enhanced by strong speculative movements in the price of raw materials in the energy sector. it is clear that strong integrated economic areas, such as the european union, can, fortunately, absorb shocks in the short term and pursue their most important objectives through the appropriate use of economic policies. but it is also true that the loss of growth and competitiveness inevitably and always results in a lack of job creation, and it is equally true that the jobs that are not created today will never be recovered by the jobs that we will eventually create tomorrow. the european union is made up of member states with different growth rates and production structures, which correspond to very different levels of dependency, and the difficulties experienced by some of these member states will always have to be added to the overall difficulties experienced and paid for by the entire economic and political area in which they are integrated. the commission has warned us of a reality that will inevitably arise if immediate action is not taken: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the energy question is therefore a nuclear question for the future of europe and is above all a political question which requires answers and commitments at this level and with this dimension. even the most technical issues, such as the discovery and development of new alternatives or the creation of articulated regulatory systems, can only be successfully tackled if they are addressed with a supranational dimension, otherwise it is not possible to mobilise the enormous financial resources that are needed for research and development. it is therefore suggested that the union, through its institutions, engage in a comprehensive and mobilizing debate with economic operators, representative organisations in the sector and citizens on this matter and then proceed to assess the real impact of the use of the different energy sources and their possible combinations on economic growth, environmental protection and the reduction of the negative impacts on climate change. at this stage, as recent events have shown, the member states are not individually in a position to respond to these problems. a genuine common european energy policy is needed, as suggested by the commission, but this depends only on the explicit will of the european council. the european union is, as we know, dangerously dependent on the energy it imports, but moreover, it does not even have the security of the energy it needs to pursue its objectives of growth and the well-being of its citizens. much can be done within the european area by saving, by improving efficiency and diversifying sources or by protecting the environment. but the essential can only be achieved through dialogue with all the other regions of the world, whether they are predominantly energy producers or those which are progressively continuing to consume the same energy. the diplomacy of this new century, as far as the european union is concerned, must give priority to the energy dimension and, to be successful, must be based on three essential elements: solidarity with the european union and its structural principles and values, solidarity with developing countries and solidarity with the environmental dimension of the world in which we live and without which we cannot survive. the european parliament, by adopting this report, as it has done on other occasions, is demonstrating its willingness and fulfilling its duty to intervene in a matter which is essential to the well-being of citizens despite all the difficulties. we hope that the spring summit of heads of state and government will be a moment of progress and progress and not just pious declarations which do not solve any of the present problems and only serve to create and strengthen future problems.
madam president, commissioner almunia, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in energy prices is a reality that has come to stay, in a context in which it is estimated that the increase in europe's energy dependence will increase from the present 50% to 71% by 2030. i welcome this own-initiative report and the good work of the rapporteur, both of which highlight the urgent need for europe to take decisive and consistent action. the deepening of the internal energy market has not eliminated existing distortions, as evidenced in particular by the commission's sector inquiry. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. these are some of the conditions for increasing efficiency in the energy market. the adoption of the energy efficiency plan recently presented by the commission addresses all these issues and is crucial. in the amendments i have tabled to the report, i would like to emphasize those relating to energy efficiency, which should be integrated into the criteria for awarding public contracts and should also be included in the selection procedures for support managed by the structural funds and in the framework programme for competitiveness and innovation. improved energy efficiency is the best answer to the problem of climate change, while controlling atmospheric emissions and improving europe's energy independence.
mr president, i just want to inform you that we are proposing an oral amendment to our amendment no 1, consisting of the insertion of just three words: 'the threat of'. thus, the final sentence will be:underlines that sanctions on sudan should also include the threat of an oil embargo;
in writing. we naturally welcome the bilateral agreements between the european union and the russian federation which make it possible to facilitate and promote the movement of citizens of this federation to the different countries of the european union and vice versa. the agreement represents a step forward in the establishment of closer cultural, social and economic ties, and in particular it responds to the legitimate aspirations of thousands of people to have procedures in place to facilitate contacts between family members residing in the russian federation and eu countries. however, this agreement contains requirements which are unacceptable to us, in particular the provisions of article 11 of the joint declaration, which explicitly requires the existence of 'biometric identifiers' in diplomatic passports as a priority to ensure a high level of security. we also disagree with the fact that certain provisions of the agreement apply exclusively to certain 'categories' or 'groups' of persons, as we believe that the visa facilitation procedure should apply and be guaranteed to all citizens of the eu countries and the russian federation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the reform of the wine sector must ensure that the specific characteristics of european wines, particularly portuguese wines, whose quality must be enhanced, are safeguarded. as the european union is the world's largest producer and consumer of wine, and as wine accounts for 60% of eu exports, i believe it is important that there be a thorough reform of the current common agricultural policy which contributes not only to the consolidation of traditional markets but also to the consolidation of expanding markets. the wine sector in the european union needs policies which will enable it to cope with the increasingly demanding international context by strengthening, improving and promoting the competitiveness of european wine.
in writing. i come from a country, portugal, more specifically from a region, madeira, where the wine sector has a significant economic weight. while recognising the need for a thorough and ambitious reform of the wine cmo in order to modernise it and adapt it to developments on the community market and to international competitive pressures, some of the solutions advocated by the commission in its communication of 22 june 2006 - in particular, the definitive abandonment of the cmo - do not solve the problem of surplus production, nor do they respond to the challenge of competitiveness faced by european viticulture on the world market. they threaten the potential of european (quality) wine, they jeopardise the sustainability of the community wine sector and they compromise the stability of wine growers. 'final abandonment cannot be the focal point of the reform of the common fisheries policy', as mrs batzeli says in her report, for which i congratulate her, in which she makes a wise critical analysis of the commission's proposals and presents a set of very timely suggestions. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. we regret that the various amendments we tabled have been rejected. that is why we voted against the final report, although we agree with several of the rapporteur's proposals, which we voted in favour of. but we reject the idea that the main measure proposed in the commission's communication on the regulation of supply and demand in the wine sector is the grubbing up of 400 000 hectares of vineyards, the reduction of production and, consequently, of the employment involved, further accentuating the desertification of vast areas, as is already the case in portugal, to the benefit of concentration in large producers and in the hands of the large wine and alcohol companies. these measures are aimed at reducing the number of vineyards in the european union, mainly affecting the less developed regions, family farms and farmers with low incomes, and have proved ineffective in relation to the increase in imports and the reduction in the role of viticulture in the various countries of the european union. we will continue to support the proposals put forward and to oppose the commission's proposal for liberalization, advocating another reform of the wine cmo which gives priority to sustainable wine-growing, its traditional characteristics, small and mediumsized farming and family farming, its social and cultural role and its important contribution to regional and national development.
in writing. time has made europe realize that 9/11 was not an isolated act and that terrorism was not aimed exclusively at america. and the realization of that fact, even if it's for the worst of reasons, is a sign that we're aware of the world around us. as for what needs to be done in the external field, to increase our security in the face of the terrorist threat, we must certainly promote peace and economic development as well. but it's not enough. the key is to combat radicalism. it is he who fuels terrorism, not our freedom, economic development, modernity or the mere existence of western culture. we cannot allow "the white man's burden" to confuse us with reality. radicalism is combated by promoting women's rights, increasing trade relations and economic interdependence, developing the economy and fostering democracy. in short, by encouraging the existence of more liberal societies around us. at the same time, we must invest without hesitation in security, including effective intelligence services adapted to the new reality, and be prepared to use military resources where it is useful, necessary and legitimate.
in writing. this report seeks to square the circle, to respond to the economic and social problems facing the union by deepening the existing economic policies and instruments that are at its genesis. however, the report acknowledges that the last six years, i.e. after the introduction of the euro and the lisbon strategy, have seen weak economic growth and stagnation and even recession in some member states, such as portugal. it recognised that economic recovery was not guaranteed, that the unemployment rate remained high (17 million unemployed in the eu), that the poverty rate had increased by 2 percentage points and that the almost 80 million poor in the eu were unacceptable. it also recognises weak domestic demand and the need for further investment. but he contradicts himself when he regards the euro and the internal market as fundamental achievements of european progress, defends monetary policy (wage moderation), deregulation of the labour market (flexisegurity) and the stability pact. and between the lines, it presents its nature, with the aim of creating a more conducive environment for business activity. it once again defends the current economic and social policy guidelines of the european union and demonstrates the contradictions of social democracy and its role in this liberal capitalism.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be an excellent piece of work by the rapporteur on a subject of extreme importance, relevance and timeliness. measures are needed to reverse the current trend of increasing import dependence of europe's energy supply, including through incentives for investment in renewable energy, which would allow the objectives of the kyoto protocol to be achieved. it is urgent to define a global strategy to reduce energy consumption, especially in the transport sector, which accounts for 56% of oil consumption in europe.
in writing. the sharp rise in oil prices, which have reached peaks of around usd 80 per barrel, is structural and permanent. unlike the oil shocks of the 1970s, caused by a supply-side breakdown, the current "shock" is the result of a sharp increase in demand from developing countries such as china or india, and also from the world's largest consumer, the usa, which is coupled with the forecast of shortages of this "finite" resource in the medium term. living with high oil prices exacerbates recessionary effects and imbalances in the balance of payments, aggravates production costs, inflation and interest rates, as well as penalizes low-income households and provokes wars for control of oil, as in iraq. whether technological solutions can contribute to increasing energy efficiency, to the emergence of new types of fuel and new forms of energy, the central question is the change in the capitalist mode of production which causes waste and inefficiency. the answer must be to reduce the energy intensity of gdp, to promote quality public rail transport and to promote production for local markets. the rapporteur has certainly made some positive proposals, but we cannot agree to the creation of an internal energy market and its liberalisation.
in writing. the report stresses the impact of the increase in oil prices on the transport sector, which accounts for 56% of total oil consumption, but it is regrettable that it does not refer to other sectors, such as fisheries. the fuel price increases have affected the fisheries sector particularly negatively, aggravating its socio-economic crisis, in particular its operating margins and economic viability. between 2004 and 2006 alone, fuel prices increased by almost 100%, and in some segments of the sector they represented almost 50% of total operating costs. fishermen have seen their incomes fall, a situation made all the more serious by the fact that the sector's activity is concentrated mainly in regions with a weak economy. several studies point to the risk of thousands of fishing businesses and thousands of jobs being lost due to the increase in fuel prices. this is why urgent and extraordinary measures are needed to support the sector, in particular the creation of a guarantee fund, shared at community level, to guarantee the stability of fuel prices. pending that decision, it is urgent to grant transitional compensatory compensation to the fisheries undertakings concerned.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr manuel dos santos' report because i agree with the principles, analysis and proposals it sets out. but also because the wide-ranging discussion of this report, both in parliament and outside it, has helped to clarify public opinion and to improve the participation of technicians and politicians. i had the opportunity to use this report in a paper on geopolitics and energy which i presented in ankara to the european union/turkey parliamentary committee. i also had the honour of participating, as moderator of two panels, in a meeting in lisbon, organised by mr manuel dos santos, where this report was discussed in depth with high-level personalities, technicians, experts and interested citizens. the debate on energy issues must continue and deepen. the report by mr manuel dos santos is a good contribution to this debate.
in writing. the impact of the current increase in oil prices is of the greatest relevance to the european economy in fragile economic recovery. the impact on gdp growth, employment and investment, as well as the different levels of energy dependence between the member states of the union, make our efforts more difficult. the social consequences are thus easy to foresee, since housing and transport are the two main items of expenditure for european households, the effect on the increase in purchasing power inequalities will be inevitable. the importance of completing the internal energy market and increasing competition and investment in alternative energy sources is therefore clear. it is necessary to ensure that freedom of movement remains a pillar of european growth and it is therefore imperative to ensure that european mobility is not affected, as well as social exclusion and the impoverishment of the most vulnerable. only a comprehensive eu strategy of gradually reducing dependence on oil, developing and producing alternative fuels, including the study of the nuclear option, and innovative solutions for the management of transport systems in general, can help to effectively combat the crisis of european energy supply.
the text we are proposing for parliament's approval today accurately reflects a situation which we can only sum up as a human catastrophe of immense proportions. i would like to congratulate the united nations high commissioner for refugees, antónio guterres, for his call for attention to this disaster on 7 february. i would also like to pay special tribute to the swedish authorities for the unique effort they are making at european level to respond to the humanitarian catastrophe. i would like to pay particular tribute to the authorities of egypt, which is by far the country without a border which has made the greatest effort to welcome these refugees, and i would like to urge the egyptian authorities not to interrupt the arrival and the conditions of reception of the refugees. but above all, i would like to appeal to the commission and the council, as our colleague mr posselt, who is here today, has reminded us very well, to open their eyes, to go to iraq and see what is happening there. a catastrophe of this nature would never have been possible if there had not been a centre organising it, as has happened in the past with regard to rwanda or the balkans. we need to get out of the cold, we need to get to iraq and understand what's going on. from that point of view, i would like to say that i am proud to have been there recently. i have prepared a report and i invite all my colleagues to consult it on the internet.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been an honour and a great responsibility for me to draw up the report on social services of general interest. i have tried to draw up an initial report which would express both the lines of my analysis and the proposals on the subject, and which would not only have the agreement of the parliamentary group of which i am a member, but would also be able to guarantee a wider agreement by its structure, style and design. this agreement was aimed not only at the debate in the committee on employment and social affairs but also at the european parliament's own plenary session. it also wanted to secure the support of the majority of the european council and the european commission itself. i would also like to see the majority of the social organisations which have helped me so much in the preparation of this report see it as a useful instrument for legal clarification in the social sector and a way of giving a new visibility and a new impetus to social services of general interest at european level. in november i wrote that this explanatory statement and the report presented were intended to contribute to strengthening the social dimension of the process of european integration by ensuring the necessary legal certainty for the social sectors and public authorities, financial transparency, the necessary compatibility with the rules applicable in the internal market, and the improvement of the quality of the services provided, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, taking into account the need to implement the lisbon strategy in the social field. the latter therefore requires significant parliamentary support for this report and requires the involvement of the social organisations of europe and the union and relevant support in the european commission, the european council and the various member states. the report which is before you today for your vote refers to a multitude of important aspects for proper work in the field of social services of general interest. they allow me to underline the following: social services of general interest are an appropriate means of strengthening the social dimension of the lisbon strategy, achieving the objectives of the social agenda and addressing challenges such as globalisation, industrial change, technological progress, demographic change, migration or changing social and working models, thus contributing to the development of a social europe. in the report, the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to respect the diversity of the ways in which social and general interest services are organised and managed, and the resources and methods of financing these services. the european parliament also notes that in some member states the decentralisation of powers to regional or local authorities for the provision of social services of general interest has not been accompanied by sufficient budgetary resources to allow for an optimal quantitative and qualitative level of service provision. the european parliament therefore urges the member states to ensure that any transfer of powers to regional or local authorities for the provision of social services of general interest is accompanied by adequate budgetary resources. the report also recommends that a forum be convened, at the instigation of the european parliament, bringing together european social organisations, representatives of the european commission and the european council, so that this forum can monitor the conduct of this process. ladies and gentlemen, with your support this process will move forward towards the strengthening of the european union and the social dimension of europe. i believe that we have the political conditions to involve the european commission, the european council and the social organisations, as well as the member states, in this process and to have the participation of companies, trade unions and the social partners in the most useful and appropriate way. with our full commitment, the necessary steps will certainly be taken to clarify the legal status of social services of general interest, and i believe that this parliament should pass this matter shortly. i am convinced that from this week we can move forward to a new stage towards clarifying the role of social services of general interest and strengthening the social dimension of the european union.
mr president, i would first of all like to support the report by mr hasse ferreira, whom i congratulate on his work. social services of general interest are today an important instrument that can contribute to greater economic, social and territorial cohesion and can be seen as a decisive lever to achieve the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy. such services play a key role in responding to certain social needs which the market is not always able to satisfy. these services have particular characteristics in terms of target audience, management, organisation and financing which are different from those of traditional services. social services of general interest have been gaining momentum as they face new challenges and have been changing the european social landscape, with the result that social services of general interest are now being forced to adapt to a much more demanding reality. there are cases of social services of general interest which can be seen as a good example of flexible labour market management, which should be followed up as there are cases of very successful experiences. as these are services close to the user, i understand that regional and local authorities, in collaboration with civil society, can take on tasks in the context of the provision of social services of general interest. i am convinced that these services are best placed to act at local level. and in this respect, regardless of the adoption of best practices and the healthy exchange of experience between member states, i believe that the different cultural patterns that exist in the european union should be respected and the development of social services of general interest should be structured and developed in accordance with the specific characteristics of each community. i therefore share the view that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the diversity of the models of organisation, management and financing of social services in the member states should be respected.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the report by richard howitt, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on corporate social responsibility: a new partnership (2006/2133 (ini)) (a6-0471/2006) follows.
mr president, the main function of companies is to create wealth, but a company can, under certain circumstances, be more than a kind of mechanical structure capable of simply creating value. a company can also be seen as a community where people live and interact, making the company the place of professional achievement and often even personal happiness. the successful companies, the ones that are able to create wealth, are the ones that typically have a good level of relationship with their employees, customers, suppliers and the community in which they operate. successful companies are those which adopt criteria of transparency in their relations with the authorities and guide their actions on the basis of codes of conduct and ethics, in some cases with a very high level of demand. when the life of a company is prolonged over time, it can be compared to living beings, and in this case we can find cases of companies which develop their activities on the basis of a strong personality inherent in a culture which they have been able to create and develop and which identifies and distinguishes them from the rest. you could say they're companies with emotions and feelings. in this case, these companies decide to devote to the community some effort which goes beyond their traditional functions and therefore take on an added responsibility which we can call 'social responsibility'. but i understand that corporate social responsibility cannot be decreed or imposed. the social responsibility of a company must be the result of a will voluntarily assumed. corporate social responsibility can never be imposed. if so, there is a serious risk that its role will be reduced to that of a public relations tool designed to obfuscate or obstruct the responsibility of companies for social and environmental problems. in this case, corporate social responsibility would be a fraud because it would not be authentic. i support the report because in its final version my view of the problem was finally taken into account.
madam president, we know how far we have come in the fight for equal rights and equal opportunities. for portuguese women, there was an important positive event on march 8th this year: the law on the decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy, if carried out by the woman's choice in the first 10 weeks of pregnancy in a legally authorized health facility, was finally passed. but there are still many inequalities between women and men, whether in the social sphere, particularly in access to work, professional promotions and pay, or in political life and family life itself. the commission must not confine itself to a statement of general principles in the area of equality, which will always be called into question as long as liberal policies are pursued with the liberalizations and privatizations contained in the so-called lisbon strategy, to which flexicurity is now added to facilitate unjustified dismissals. this will continue the discrimination against women. maternity and paternity, which are fundamental social values, must be protected by the state, which must take the necessary measures to eradicate discriminatory behaviour within companies, as is still the case in portugal. and so, as happened on 2 march in lisbon, women will continue to fight for more jobs with rights, against the closure of maternity hospitals, for more day nurseries and kindergartens. they must be answered positively.
i will begin by stating that i am a cooperating member of the portuguese society of authors, the portuguese collective management society concerned with this matter. the work of our colleagues lévai and mavrommatis must be applauded. the freedom of choice of authors and composers by the collective management society as to what they intend to be represented by it is as fundamental a principle as the prohibition on so-called major publishers from entering into exclusive agreements with collective management societies. the mandate granted by a major publisher to a company should also be able to be granted to any other company and such mandate should only be able to include the centralisation of licensing to multinational companies, with licensing to national companies being carried out by local companies. the global directory should remain available to all collective management societies for the licensing of users and therefore, as the report says, it is crucial to prohibit any form of exclusive mandate between major rightholders and collective management societies for the direct collection of rights in all member states, as this practice would lead to the rapid extinction of national societies. the network of national societies must be preserved so that all of them have access to the global repertoire and everything must be done to safeguard cultural diversity with the indispensable contribution of these national societies and their action in their respective countries. that said, it is at least bizarre that a commission recommendation has been deemed the appropriate way to deal with the issue of collective management societies, especially since the commission does not yet know exactly how things are, as we have heard from the commissioner here. the commission is expected to welcome the suggestion made to it in one of the recitals of this report to draw up a proposal for a directive, and it is clear that the interests involved would recommend that such a proposal be made as soon as possible.
in writing. the main objective of this proposal to amend several directives as regards procedural rules and prudential assessment criteria for acquisitions is to promote crossborder mergers and acquisitions (m&a) in the banking and financial sector, i.e. to promote the concentration and centralisation of capital at european level by improving the penetration capacity of foreign capital and the integration of financial markets. thus, prudential assessment is seen as a barrier to cross-border m&a, following a commission study presented in november 2005 on the barriers to consolidation of the financial sector in the internal market. the proposal, in addition to maximum harmonisation, among other technical details, aims to create shorter time limits for the prudential assessment by the national competent authorities and banking supervisory authorities, i.e. to reduce the current 65 days to 30 days. the compromise proposal, which is an extension of the commission proposal, allows for the existing deadline to be reduced. we voted against all of this.
in writing. what is happening in most european union countries at the moment, with the proliferation of precarious and low-paid work, with the exploitation of migrant workers, whether from third countries or from the european union itself, as has happened to portuguese workers in the netherlands and spain, for example, and now in the united kingdom, shows that the social responsibility that companies assume is becoming less and less. the fact that multinationals, even when they have significant productivity levels, relocate so many times because they only want to make more and more profits and show a complete lack of concern for the thousands of unemployed they cause is proof that most large companies do not practice any social responsibility. it is symptomatic that they have rejected the proposals we have tabled for the plenary, which stress the incongruence between the objectives assigned to csr and the policies put forward by the commission on employment, in particular flexicurity, to liberalize unfair dismissals, support the proliferation of precarious work and devalue collective bargaining and employment with rights. so despite the positive proposals in the report, until there is political will and real monitoring of labour law and ilo standards, little will change in practice.
in writing. in a perfect market, both the economic performance and the social or environmental impact of a company would be taken into account in determining its value and public image. in a perfect market, consumers would choose the products that best serve them directly, while also serving their other interests best indirectly. obviously, there is no such market. some, in the wake of an ever-intervening understanding, will therefore advocate more regulation and more legislation. that's not the path i'm advocating. even though i know that the market is not, and will not be, perfect, i prefer its mechanisms and the solutions that stimulate them. in this sense, i believe that interventions that promote and disseminate good practice and, above all, that foster a culture of demanding consumer demands together are preferable. the question of competitiveness remains. the idea that there is always an opposition between profit, or simple economic viability, and the environment, employment, social responsibility, does not convince me. profit is not a bad thing, it is a good thing, provided it is obtained in accordance with rules, particularly those laid down in the market, which result from increased consumer demand. these are the ones we should encourage.
in writing. the vote in plenary rejected all the proposals we had put forward to clarify the causes of the discrimination which still persists, of which i would highlight: - insisting on the need to change the economic policies of the european union so that all women, men and children can live in dignity and without the threat of poverty; - to stress the importance of establishing community indicators on childcare facilities and on the gender pay and other income gap by sector, including atypical and parttime work; - stresses the need to work towards mainstreaming the gender perspective in the economic guidelines, including in the accession process, in order to avoid the negative effects on gender equality of the processes of privatisation, liberalisation and cuts in public expenditure in the social sectors, and reaffirms that quality public services are essential, calling for increased budgetary resources in social areas to prevent social exclusion and combat trafficking in women; - fears that policies focused on increasing the eu's competitiveness may harm the interests of women in other regions of the world. hence our final abstention vote.
in writing. we generally agree with the proposals in this report for a clarification by the commission of the recommendation on collective border management of copyright and related rights in the field of online music services. the commission proposal has created a great deal of instability in the relationship between european authors' societies, with divisions between the largest, the small and the medium-sized. it needs to be made clear that the commission's recommendation would benefit the major players in the online music market as well as the publishers of the major multinational record companies and harm authors and cultural diversity. at the same time, it was an open invitation to concentrate the management of a large part of the rights in two or three hyper-copyright companies, which would pervert the concept that was at the basis of their formation and which is the concept that legitimizes them. we therefore generally agree with the proposed amendments to the recommendation which aim to make it more effective, fair and supportive of cultural diversity. we think it is appropriate to have a proposal for a directive on this subject as soon as possible, in order to minimise the damage that the recommendation is doing to relations between authors' societies and between them and the various users.
the next meeting in vienna is the occasion for the european union to take the lead. the european position must be based on two fundamental ideas: strengthening the international atomic energy agency and pressing for compliance with article 6 of the npt, and in this respect i agree that the modernisation of trident is incompatible with article 6 of the npt and, by affecting the united kingdom, affects the european union. the european union should support the multilateralisation of uranium enrichment and the universalisation of the additional protocol to the safeguards agreement. this can avoid new challenges such as those posed by iran. the european union must also work towards the early implementation of the 13 steps towards nuclear disarmament identified in the prepcom 2000. if europe does not take up the defence of the fundamental balance on which the npt is based, the 2007 prepcom could mark the beginning of the end of the treaty. in this context, mr president, it is a scandalous breach of european commitments that poland, the czech republic and the united kingdom are unilaterally considering participation in the missile defence system of the united states of america. why the european union or even nato, if not to discuss the strategic future of europe?
i would like to begin by welcoming the communications from the council and the commission. we all agree that there will be no real equality between the sexes unless there is a balance between family and professional life for both women and men. it is necessary for men to share family responsibilities and for women to have access to professional development. to this end, it is urgent that member states set up networks of quality, affordable and compatible childcare facilities. unfortunately, in 2007, the european year of equal opportunities for all, we are far from meeting the barcelona targets, and yet with an ageing population and declining birth rates, the european union needs as many adults as possible in the labour market, that is, more women. we look forward to the document that commissioner spidla has announced here for 2008 on this subject.
member of the commission. mr president, before going into the details of the report, i would like to thank the rapporteur mrs bourzai and the committee on agriculture and rural development for their very good work carried out on this fairly sensitive issue, namely the marketing of bovine meat at an age lower than 12 months. the report is a response to the request made by the council in the middle of 2004 towards a harmonisation of the definition of veal within the european community. it follows a lengthy consultation process involving different stakeholders and member state experts, during which the commission has demonstrated its readiness to take into account, to the greatest extent possible, traditions and habits in different member states. the commission has also considered the main feature of the consumption and the production of veal within the european union. it allows the main problems as regards the marketing of the meat of these young animals to be addressed, and i think it offers a balanced response to most of the concerns that have been raised. for the first time, it is now possible to reach an agreement on this difficult issue. many of the amendments that have been proposed or introduced aim to simplify the commission proposal in order to try to cut red tape, to reduce the administrative burdens and the cost as much as possible, and in principle these amendments should not raise any problems. i am looking forward to listening to the discussion, and hopefully we can find a solution.
the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal. the establishment of precise sales descriptions according to the age of the slaughter, which is a criterion easier to control than the feed, to be used by all member states, will facilitate consumer understanding and avoid possible distortions of competition. it is particularly important that the designation 'veal' and others defined in the commission proposal cannot be used for the labelling of meat from animals over 12 months of age. another aspect which i consider essential is the subjecting of meat imported from third countries to the provisions of the proposed regulation, which will make it possible to avoid any risk of distortion of competition. i share the view of the rapporteur, mrs bourzai, whom i congratulate on her excellent work and the dialogue she has initiated, that this is a good proposal from the commission and that the matter deserved a solution long ago. we also both feel that the letters discussed by the commission for the identification of carcasses are not the most appropriate, as they can give rise to confusion about the sex of the animal. this and other aspects of the proposal for a regulation have been improved by amendments adopted by the committee on agriculture and set out in the report under consideration in this house. i should like to say that any reservations that may exist about certain traditions, which raise doubts about the new provisions, should not be taken to the extent of calling into question the work done by the commission and the european parliament. finally, i would remind members that the designations proposed by the commission were obtained after consultation with organisations in the various member states, as the commissioner has already pointed out, and that the proposal for a regulation provides for the possibility of amending the list of designations in annex ii in the future.
madam president, i would also like to begin by congratulating our colleague mr leichtfried on his report and his excellent work and to say that the matter we are discussing here today is of the utmost importance for the future of european civil aviation, especially in view of the prospect of a continuing increase in air traffic in the coming years and in view of the recent commitments made by the european union with regard to co2 emissions, which will certainly also involve civil aviation. through the european aviation safety agency we aim to ensure the highest safety standards for civil aviation, which are also applicable to third country operators using european airspace and airports. the evaluation of the work carried out by easa since 2003 shows the need to prudently extend the agency's powers in the field of air operations, pilot licences and aircraft of third countries, without this entailing an increase in bureaucracy or unlawful obstacles to the normal development of this activity. we can only support these amendments if they actually contribute to the improvement of aviation safety. the inevitable consequence of the loss of competence of national aviation authorities cannot be conceived without a clear added value in terms of safety management and the future of european civil aviation. the common objective we share is therefore to equip the easa with the practical skills to carry out the new tasks that are assigned to it. until now, in most cases, each member state has adopted its own rules on the basis of internationally agreed minimum standards, and it is true, we must say frankly, that european airspace has always been the safest in the world. i would therefore like to stress the need to take account of the experience gained by the competent national authorities in order to ensure that the drawing up of common standards and the supervision of their application in the european union is carried out effectively and ensures ever greater safety. without going into details, many of which have already been mentioned here, it is foreseeable that some improvements will still be needed in several areas, especially in the direction of closer coordination with the aeronautical authorities of the member states. the aim, madam president, will always be to provide even greater protection and safety for all passengers travelling in european airspace.
in writing. the council took up the positions of the lisbon strategy, with liberalization and privatisation, labour flexibility and the planned attack on workers' rights, which is highlighted in the announced communication on flexicurity. moreover, the council conclusions expressly state that 'in preparation for the new three-year cycle of the renewed lisbon strategy, the european council invites the commission to present an interim report in autumn 2007 in view of its proposal for integrated guidelines for growth and jobs (2008-2011). the european council also invites the member states to submit their national reports on the implementation of the national reform programmes in due time. "in other words, all the pressure is on to continue privatizations and attacks on labour rights. there is no information on the european constitution, but it is known that pressure is also continuing for an intergovernmental conference during the portuguese presidency, thus quietly resuming the project of constitutional enshrinement of this neoliberalism, accompanied by the centralisation of power, federalism and the militaristic path.
in writing. the evolution of community migration and asylum policies and legislation requires statistical information of a much higher quality than currently exists. i therefore support this initiative which follows on from the thessaloniki european council in 2003, which recognised the need to create more effective mechanisms for collecting and analysing information on migration and asylum in the european union. i welcome the report by mrs klamt which seeks to create a common framework for the collection and compilation of community statistics in this area, which should enable the member states to make the best use of the data available for the production of statistics which correspond as far as possible to harmonised definitions. it should thus improve the exchange of statistics and enable common analysis to be carried out in order to develop fair and effective community policies on migration and the free movement of persons.
in writing. the civil aviation responsibilities of each member state have been gradually transferred to the 'community'. the proposed amendment to regulation (ec) no 1592/2002 is another step in this direction. such a process of transferring and alienating powers is all the more negative when it is carried out in a framework in which its limits are not clearly defined. in this case, the european aviation safety agency (easa) would also be responsible for the certification of aircraft and pilots, which is currently the responsibility of each national authority. the national authorities currently comply with and enforce the applicable civil aviation requirements resulting from international agreements. cooperation between member states and third countries is already a reality and could even be further encouraged and developed, but with due regard for the sovereignty of each country, workers and their rights (ensuring social harmonization by applying the most favourable conditions) and the rights of users. in essence, this initiative is another step towards the actual implementation of the so-called 'single european sky', which we oppose. the negotiating process on the amendment of this regulation is now under way and we will continue to monitor this matter, always safeguarding national sovereignty.
in writing. the adoption of this report is an important step towards ensuring that the rights of workers in the maritime sector are respected. the international labour organisation (ilo) maritime labour convention 2006 aims to ensure decent working and living conditions on board ships by bringing together in a single text the maritime labour conventions and recommendations adopted by the ilo since 1919 and thus constitutes the first draft of a universal maritime labour code. the ratification of the convention by the member states is therefore essential for all efforts to ensure that it is effectively complied with. given the strategic importance of the sector, which handles 90% of world trade and 40% of intra-community trade, and the number of workers involved, this measure was long overdue. we therefore voted in favour of this report and look forward to its rapid ratification and implementation by the various member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to draft a first universal maritime labour code. with the adoption of the ilo convention 2006, minimum standards in the area of health, training, working conditions and social security for maritime workers have been established, ensuring decent working and living conditions on board international ships. it is now up to the member states to ratify this convention. i therefore urge the portuguese authorities to ratify this ilo convention in order to ensure more uniform minimum employment conditions. i welcome this convention for introducing innovative mechanisms such as the maritime labour certificate issued by the state to ships flying its flag after verifying that the working conditions on board comply with national laws and the rules of the convention. i hope that this convention will contribute to the stabilization of the maritime transport sector, which is faced with the pressure of global competition from less socially active operators and the threat of offshoring of seafarers' recruitment to the detriment of european employment, including in intra-community traffic.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is an important subject for european citizens and because i share the rapporteur's view: services of general interest (sgis) are one of the fundamental pillars on which the european social model is based and are an appropriate means of reinforcing the social dimension of the lisbon strategy and of meeting the challenges of globalisation, industrial change, technological progress, demographic change, migration or changing social and working patterns.
in writing. the pandora's box of attacks on public services, opened by the directive on the creation of the internal market for services (the infamous bolkestein directive), continues in this report on services of general interest. the commission has already accepted the division of services of general interest into general economic services and social services of general interest. secondly, by failing to defend clearly the right of each member state to define the public services it wants and the way in which they are organised and financed. thirdly, by allowing private undertakings to provide services of general interest, it opens the way to the privatisation of essential public services and thus calls into question in practice the principles of equality, universality, social cohesion and, above all, the possibility of realising fundamental human rights in practice. finally, there is also the rejection of all the proposals we have put forward, in particular our call on the member states to reverse the so-called 'reforms' which have institutionalised market-based social protection models, subject to competition and tendering obligations, and to stop promoting public-private partnerships or outsourcing social services to the private sector, as these strategies are misleading.
in writing. the european union has nothing to gain from a rigid model for defining economic activities and determining their public or private nature. the modern economy, and the european economy in particular, needs flexibility. on the other hand, the best model of european integration is one which leaves room for each member state to choose the paths which its citizens prefer, even leaving them room to make mistakes. the possibility of error is part of the freedom of choice. i therefore agree with the need for a clear definition in legal terms of what is meant by economic services of general interest and social services of general interest. their correct identification is important so that when adopting standards the european union does not impose or prohibit what it is not in a position to determine. in this respect, i am in favour of much of what is said in this report. i also agree with the rapporteur that the social services of general interest should be given sufficient funding. this is undeniable, even if we have different views on the means of financing. and that in each member state there is a different understanding of what their duty is to the citizens.
in writing. one of the objectives of the conclusion of this preliminary agreement on air transport between the european community and the united states of america is to reduce to a minimum the disparities which currently exist, at different levels, between airlines from the eu and those from the united states. however, we are concerned about its celebration. the assumption that the community has the competence to conclude such agreements and not the member states calls into question the sovereignty of each state in a matter of great strategic importance, all the more so when the assumption underlying this agreement is to 'set the pattern for greater liberalization and regulatory convergence at world level', which we consider unacceptable. the advantages of multilateral agreements are obvious, since they help to improve the conditions under which services are provided, particularly for passengers, the routes available and the prices charged, to simplify procedures and to minimise environmental impacts, and to safeguard and promote the rights of workers in this sector and to ensure respect for the internal order and sovereignty of each country.
in writing. non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament are one of the central issues of the present day, in an international context marked by instability and insecurity arising from the growing aggressiveness and interventionism of imperialism, led by the united states and aided by the great capitalist powers. the promotion of the arms race is being promoted by the united states, which is developing its nuclear weapons and is seeking to install new offensive systems in europe, as exemplified by the new anti-missile systems in poland and the czech republic. at the same time as it is militarizing itself, the us is threatening other sovereign states with its military interference and aggression. the european parliament's majority rejection of our group's proposals, which insisted on a 'peaceful political settlement of the dispute over iran's nuclear programmes', reaffirming 'opposition to any military action or threat of use of force', 'opposition to the use of new ballistic and anti-ballistic missile systems on the territory of the member states of the european union' and 'calling on the nuclear-weapon states to withdraw their arsenals from the state of high alert and to undertake not to attack non-nuclear-weapon states with nuclear weapons', is significant in this context.
in writing. the content of this joint resolution deserves my wholehearted support. the npt is our best weapon against nuclear proliferation, a serious threat to world security. since, and this has to be said, it is not only what you have that matters, but also who has it. as we have seen, not all states are equal in their behaviour in this matter. for this reason, i would like to add to my vote in favour and my agreement the insistence that we have responsibilities beyond mere formality. in the field of world politics, our main concern is to ensure the broadest and most lasting security. i'm not so sure we did that anymore. i hope that the signs which at present seem unclear but fearful will prove to be a mistake.
i would first of all like to thank mr arif for the full report he has brought us here today, which is very important for this debate. euro-mediterranean cooperation must always contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals as a whole in its mediterranean approach. as has already been said here, the poverty-free threshold is not a utopia and is within our reach in this region too. the creation of a specific plan for administrative, social and economic restructuring, which will make it possible to combat poverty, both absolute and relative, in the mediterranean, is the main objective of the proposal which i, as vice-president of the committee on economic affairs, will be presenting in tunis next weekend. 2010 can bring us a zone of shared prosperity of some 750 million citizens right here on our doorstep and whose political stability is crucial, not only for the european union but also for the world. we are all aware of the sensitivities of the different member states to these issues and of the responsibility of the presidency of the council for the ability to make them a reality. that is what the commissioner told us when he revealed his unquestioned commitment as a representative of the commission. however, we know that without a strong technical and political commitment from the commission itself, none of the authors concerned will move towards it. at the very least they will be a dead letter to the action plans we have been negotiating and appeal to a purely individual perspective. the development of this area and its political stability are in our hands, commissioner. it is clear that we have played our part, whether in the allocation of new social or financial instruments, in the subscription of more support for microcredit in an absolutely unequivocal way or in the undeniable commitment to make this partnership and the agreements that hang over it stand as crucial. we must unequivocally assert our values.
the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the future of european aircraft manufacturing will continue.
the debate is closed.
the question period is now over (b6-0012/2007). the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by mr laima liucija andrikiene (h-0174/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: further ratification of the eu constitution one of the priorities of the german presidency of the eu is to continue the process of ratifying the eu constitution. will the german presidency have a roadmap for the further constitutional process in order to adopt a constitution before the next european elections in 2009? what concrete measures will the german presidency take to achieve its objective of ratifying the constitution in good time?
i would like to make one point clear at the outset: we have had five supplementary questions asked for this question. i have a range of 100 questions to the council, i will not answer all of them, but i will try to get the council to answer as many as possible, so i can only give the floor to two members per question and i will of course use the usual criteria by trying to alternate between political groups.
question no 2 by claude moraes (h-0077/07) subject: progress in the context of the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia can the council report on the progress made in the context of the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia?
question no 3 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0080/07) subject: age limit for violent electronic games what immediate steps does the german presidency intend to take to curb the spread of violent video and electronic games, given that this phenomenon is of concern to all european society and that the risks posed by its spread are worsening? does the presidency understand that the repression of violence and the dissemination of media inciting violence may be contrary to the rules of free competition or freedom of expression?
the clarification will naturally be recorded.
question no 4 by sarah ludford (h-0083/07) subject: the use of the word 'contract' in the name of the community subject: fight against corruption pursuant to article 9 of council framework decision 2003/568/jha oj l 192, 31.7.2003, p. 54 on combating corruption in the private sector, member states were to transmit to the council and the commission, by july 2005, the text of the provisions transposing their obligations into national law. the council was to assess, by 22 october 2005, the extent to which the member states had complied with the provisions of the framework decision on the basis of a report drawn up on the basis of this information and a written report from the commission. has the council made this assessment? in particular, has the council received information on the transposition of the 2003 framework decision into uk national law? why, in the council's view, has there been no criminal prosecution in the united kingdom for bribery of foreign agents? to what extent does the council consider that the decision of the united kingdom government of december 2006 to close the investigation into corruption in the al yamamah arms deal between bae systems and saudi arabia: (a) complies with the uk's obligations under the eu framework decision, (b) is in compliance with the uk's obligations under the 1997 oecd convention on combating corruption, and (c) contributes to the eu's efforts to eradicate corruption in business transactions worldwide?
question no 5 by glenis willmott (h-0084/07) subject: the use of the term 'contract' in the context of the european union subject: european manifesto on cervical cancer and the need to combat it i would like to draw attention to the european week for the prevention of cervical cancer in january and the publication of a manifesto for the eradication of this disease. the manifesto contains four points. the first point calls for rapid work to implement effective population-based cervical cancer screening programmes in line with the european guidelines on the quality of cervical cancer screening, together with vocational public health education programmes, to ensure that all women fully benefit from the services available to them. the second point recommends the exchange of good practice between member states, so that the international experience of some member states can be applied uniformly in the european union. the third point recommends independent research on a population basis to identify the most appropriate means of applying the new technologies available in public health programmes and thus to ensure the greatest possible reduction in cervical cancer cases in the european union. the fourth point recognises and supports the essential role played by charities, non-governmental organisations and volunteers in reducing cervical cancer in europe. does the german presidency support this manifesto and, if so, what steps does it intend to take to ensure its effective implementation in the eu?
question no 6 by bernd posselt (h-0086/07) subject: accession negotiations with croatia how does the council assess the current state of the accession negotiations with croatia and what further progress is foreseen for the current year, such as the opening and closure of new chapters?
since they concern the same subject, the following questions should be referred together: question no 7 by sajjad karim (h-0089/07) subject: the situation in the middle east the commission has not yet received any information on the situation in zimbabwe. the eu sanctions currently applied against the regime of robert mugabe expire on 20 february 2007. following operation murambatsvina, the forced eviction of hundreds of thousands of people living in informal camps across the country in 2005, the zimbabwean government has repeatedly impeded un efforts to provide emergency shelter and subjected some of the most vulnerable to repeated forced evictions. in view of the above, and the proven violations of human rights suffered by opponents of the robert mugabe regime, can the council give an assurance that the eu's refusal to accept these violations will be manifested in the form of renewed sanctions? question no 8 by eoin ryan (h-0169/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: relations between the european union and zimbabwe in view of the flagrant violations of human rights in zimbabwe, what action does the council intend to take against the government of that country? is the council aware that zimbabwe is on the verge of widespread famine and that the south african government has supported the government of zimbabwe both politically and economically over the past few years?
question no 9 by mr papadimoulis (h-0090/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: article 301 of the turkish penal code during the funeral procession that preceded the burial of armenian journalist hrant dink (in istanbul on 23 january 2007), thousands of protesters accompanying the coffin of the murdered journalist called for the repeal of article 301 of the turkish penal code, concerning "public offense to turkish identity". the pressures exerted so far have not led to the revision of this article. does the council agree that trials for violation of this article turn the accused into targets, as demonstrated by the recent murder of hrant dink? what immediate measures does the council intend to take to amend article 301 of the turkish penal code?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
mr mandelson, this initiative of the commission has the merit of initiating a debate on a subject too complex to call for simple answers. there are sectors in europe which are more attached to the more demagogic and populist responses of all quarters who think they have simple answers to this question. they're simple answers, but they're wrong. the key question is precisely how the european union should use the trade defence instruments at its disposal to ensure that the rules of fair trade are respected and to participate actively in the process of regulating international trade. we must defend a european economic and social model, but always with the limit of not falling into the protectionist trap. this is the fundamental question facing the european union today. we have already seen that there are natural differences and conflicting interests within the european union itself. the interests of producers do not necessarily coincide with the interests of large importers, and the immediate interests of consumers do not necessarily coincide with the interests of one another. what is needed is a guideline that always takes account of one fundamental principle: how the european union will participate actively, seriously and intelligently in the process of regulating international trade, seeking to project to the international level, within the framework of the wto itself, some basic values that identify it, a competitive economy and at the same time a more solidary and more cohesive society and very attentive to the preservation of some fundamental environmental values. this is the challenge facing the european union today, and i believe that the commission is right to promote this debate.
mr president, fundamental rights are the benchmark for all political action in the european union. since the treaty of rome democracy has been the condition for this union of peoples and the basis for consensus, and no one can deny that democracy requires that all institutions obey an ethic of rights, that democracy itself is born of an ethic of rights. the charter of fundamental rights, formalised in the treaty of nice, is nothing more than the explicit expression of this genetic matrix of the european union. let us therefore avoid the mystifications. the european union has never existed without an essential link to fundamental rights. only by this bond does the union guarantee its loyalty to itself. the european commission's methodology of self-monitoring legislation is therefore welcome: respect for fundamental rights as an integral part of the control of the legality of legislative proposals, and an entirely new assessment of the impact of this legislation on fundamental rights. fresh air and more transparency for the commission's offices. this is a more structural solution and a happier one than the new fundamental rights agency, because this method proposed by the commission assumes that human rights are transversal to the union's policies. all the policies. that's his strength. in a democratic society, the control of rights begins precisely with the self-control of the institutions over their political practice. however, the virtualities of this methodology are limited, since it does not cover the council of the european union or decisions in the field of intergovernmental cooperation, in respect of which the commission has no initiative. if there are matters which today lack qualified attention in the light of a culture of rights, it is the third pillar, criminal law and criminal procedure. the threat of terrorism and the unrest of public opinion create in the states the temptation to a security drift which sometimes enters into a limiting relationship with freedom and justice. the commission's method opened the door but should also have opened the window.
to achieve the economic and social cohesion that is proclaimed, it is necessary not only to promote the real convergence of the economically less developed member states, the cohesion countries, but also to promote the reduction of regional disparities by promoting the harmonious development of the territory of each member state. in this context, it is essential to support the most disadvantaged regions and regions with structural problems, also by increasing the financial resources of cohesion policy, and to help remove obstacles to regional development arising from permanent natural and geographical disadvantages, for example in island regions. despite the recognition of the structural disadvantages of the islands, the strategy followed has not been consistent, and we therefore regard as positive aspects highlighted in this report, such as the increase in the rate of community co-financing on the basis of the existing eligibility criteria or the flexibility in authorizing the granting of state aid to these regions in order to reduce the costs of fuel, transport and energy, as a positive differentiating factor for these regions. the central issue is not the recognition of the already widely highlighted obstacles or the competition between disadvantaged regions in terms of priorities, but the insufficiency of financial means for cohesion, as demonstrated in the present financial framework 2007-2013, under which the structural funds have seen their weight reduced from 0,41% to 0,37% of gni and the liberalising and privatising objectives of the lisbon strategy have been set as a priority, which exacerbate the specific competitive advantages of these regions.
mr president, mr rapporteur, as the member elected for the autonomous region of the azores, an ultraperipheral region whose status should not be confused with that of the island regions - as our colleague margie sudre has very well pointed out - i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur, mr francesco musotto, and the whole regional policy committee on the excellent work they have done. i would like to highlight in particular the proposal for a european coastguard, which is a fundamental proposal for the protection of the marine environment, the control of fisheries, support for navigation and, in particular, the control of international standards in the field of safety and labour, and also, of course, the problem of immigration. it is not a question of being for or against this last aspect. the reality is that there are people who board without any conditions and have to be supported while they are on the high seas. in this respect, i would like to stress that there is no security agenda behind this european coast guard project, contrary to what some of the members have said. there is a vision of a european maritime policy which is essential for all island regions and, in particular, for the outermost regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mr musotto on the high quality of the report we are now hearing on the problems of the island regions. in fact, as the report makes clear, insularity is an insurmountable and permanent reality which seriously affects the competitiveness of these regions. it is therefore only logical that specific measures should be taken by the european union in the various common policies to respond to this competitive imbalance between island regions and continental regions. this need was recognised in the treaties but unfortunately it was never implemented in a comprehensive and coherent way. in addition, the need for a european response to mitigate the competitive disadvantage suffered by island regions is all the greater as the current times call for increased european competitiveness in the international context. it is therefore important that the european union responds in an innovative way to the specific problems of island regions which affect their competitiveness. a european union response is needed to help island regions to take better advantage of highly competitive dynamics such as the single european market, economic and monetary union and the lisbon strategy. i would therefore particularly like to support the report's recommendation that an administrative unit be set up within the directorate-general for regional policy, similar to what already exists for the outermost regions, to define and promote a european strategy for island regions. only then will the very particular reality of island regions be properly taken into account in the context of policies such as transport, energy, the environment, tourism, taxation, state aid, etc.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. i come from an island but also an ultraperipheral region, and for this reason it is recognised and specifically dealt with in the treaty on european union, and i can say that with this initiative parliament is giving a good view not only of the permanent structural difficulties of all island regions which affect the lives of their citizens, but also of their potential, which is also a potential of the union. without its islands, and especially its outermost regions, which receive fairly differentiated treatment, the union would not have the size it has in the world, nor would it have the maritime zone at its disposal, to which are certainly added the advantages of the new european maritime policy in public consultation. cohesion, one of the union's fundamental objectives, will only be achieved if these regions can rely on solidarity to promote the reduction and elimination of obstacles to their development. it is therefore necessary to promote the adequacy of union policies, in particular in the fields of transport, energy, public service contracts and state aid, in order to ensure full employment, economic growth, integration into the internal market, the european model, the objectives of the renewed lisbon strategy. it therefore asks the commissioner and the commission to take account of the transposition of future policies in the field of development and regional policy.
in writing. there is much to say about this resolution, but only 200 words are allowed, which will serve to denounce its silence on the unacceptable boycott of the palestinian authority (pa) by the israeli government and the us administration following the palestinian elections in january 2006, which the eu has joined in suspending its financial aid, contributing to the worsening of the already serious humanitarian situation faced by the palestinian people as a result of israeli occupation and aggression. silence in the face of the unacceptable, accomplice and accomplice attitude of the eu which, so far, continues to put conditions on the palestinian authorities for the re-establishment of relations, including the resumption of financial support to the pa, such as the 'commitment to non-violence' - when it is israel that is militarily occupying palestinian territories - the 'recognition of israel' - when it is israel that does not recognize the right of the palestinian people to their sovereign and independent state - and the 'respect for previous agreements and obligations, including the roadmap' - when it is israel that does not comply with un resolutions, the oslo accords and the roadmap itself, and continues the construction of the illegal wall and settlement policy.
in writing. one of the greatest successes of the european union is the effect of successive enlargements. the prospect of accession has been one of the main factors in the democratization and modernisation of our countries and societies. since unlimited enlargement of the eu is not possible, and i am not in favour of it, i think it would be desirable to have a formula which would promote the same type of results in the mediterranean basin. a new european project, designed in partnership with our mediterranean neighbours, which will create in the medium term an area of free movement in the mediterranean as close as possible to the logic of the eu model, to which surrounding countries can join if they meet the criteria of democracy, market economy and respect for human rights (the essence of the copenhagen criteria). it would be a strengthened partnership in exchange for reforms. it would, incidentally, and without this being its greatest virtue, be a solution which, if it were in the interest of morocco, israel or tunisia, might perhaps be of interest to turkey if it were to come to the conclusion that the accession process is in an insurmountable impasse. having prosperous, democratic neighbours, constrained by the potential benefits, with populations who do not need to emigrate at all costs, is a good european project. and it's not even completely new.
in writing. the aim of this report is, despite some reformist rhetoric, to promote the creation of a 'free trade area' (fta) between the eu and the mediterranean region. the eu is trying to achieve the liberalisation of world trade by concluding bilateral/regional agreements, overcoming difficulties in the wto negotiations. among other examples, the report advocates: the 'opening of agricultural markets', although regulated, referring in particular to the wine and fruit and vegetable sectors; the liberalisation of services, although excluding (only...) the public services which it considers to be basic (health, education, drinking water, culture and audiovisual services); the liberalisation of energy, through the creation of a euro-mediterranean market; and the liberalisation of the industrial sector, in particular the 'consolidation of a euro-mediterranean production area' for textiles and clothing, basically encouraging the relocation of a large part of production. in other words, the promotion of trade liberalization for the benefit of european multinationals and large importers, who are eager to dominate new markets and natural resources and to create new opportunities to exploit cheap labour. the fund is committed to sovereign development models based on specific national realities and needs and to a project of cooperation which is genuinely based on solidarity between these different countries.
in writing. what i said about euro-mediterranean relations applies mutatis mutandis to this debate. as i have said on other occasions, i support the objective of creating a deep partnership between 'europe' and its mediterranean neighbours. so anything less than that - and a free trade area is less than that - seems to me to be little. but it is also clear that anything that goes in that direction seems to me to be positive and deserves my support. that is essentially the case here. i therefore voted in favour, but i would like our debate on these matters to develop into a broader view of what our relations with our neighbours to the south should be. the good of both shores.
in writing. the charter of fundamental rights is a synthesis of the common european values with which all citizens can identify, giving them a tool to defend themselves through knowledge and understanding of their rights and to better monitor the activities of national and european authorities when they enact and apply union law. i regret that it has not yet become legally binding, although it has already become a reference text both in the work of the european institutions and for european courts, such as the court of justice. it is essential that we make efforts to develop a genuine 'culture of fundamental rights' in the european union by establishing a general system of monitoring fundamental rights and by actively promoting fundamental rights and intervening in cases of violation or unsatisfactory protection of fundamental rights by member states. there should therefore be rigorous and systematic monitoring in order to find the best solutions which strike a fair balance between the objectives pursued in terms of security and the limitation of fundamental rights. the commission has also extended the procedure for complying with the charter of fundamental rights to the whole legislative process and to comitology.
in writing. the manoeuvres to revive the so-called 'constitutional process' have been repeated, in flagrant disregard of the decision of the french and dutch people, sovereignly expressed in the referendums held in 2005. the use of the 'charter of fundamental rights', which is an integral part of the so-called 'european constitution', has long been part of this unacceptable machinery. the report aims to 'put through the window what did not come through the door', i.e. to make this text binding when it is not and, in turn, to defend the 'preservation' of the (bad) 'central achievements of the constitution'. if the aim is to defend rights, then let those enshrined in the constitution of the portuguese republic, the european convention for the protection of human rights and the european social charter be respected, texts which are internationally valid, more complete and with a recognized legitimacy, when compared with the reductive content of the 'charter of fundamental rights', for example, as regards economic, social and cultural rights. in essence, they are once again seeking to use human rights (now called fundamental rights) to (re) impose the so-called 'constitutional process', disguising its unacceptable neoliberal, federalist and militarist content by stating and manipulating the legitimate expectations and just aspirations of the different peoples of the eu. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the willy meyer pleite report (a6-0026/2007) on the negotiation of an eu-central america association agreement because i believe that the european union must continue to play a key role in defending the environment and human rights at global level. this agreement should seek a balance between the three pillars - political dialogue, cooperation and trade - in order to consolidate democratic processes in central america, improve the effectiveness of democratic administrations and institutions, combat violence, corruption and impunity, as well as human rights violations, and finally improve social cohesion and living conditions for all the inhabitants of the region.
in writing. the current situation in many latin american countries undoubtedly causes some reluctance to clearly state the real intentions of the association agreements promoted by the eu. the ep therefore changed the clear wording of its objective, the creation of a 'free trade area', to the wording 'euro-latin american interregional association area' (a 'zaiela'), at the last minute, in some points of the resolution, while maintaining the content of the former as the objectives of the latter. a ruse which does not hide the fact that its objective is the 'establishment in the long term of a free trade area', providing in its 'negotiating guidelines for the progressive and reciprocal liberalisation of trade' (this was later relaxed by adding 'under conditions of fairness and mutual benefit based on complementarity and solidarity'), seeking 'to negotiate a single and indivisible trade agreement which goes beyond the present and future obligations of the parties with regard to the wto and establishes, after a transitional period compatible with the wto criteria, an 'afta', without 'excluding any sector', developing a 'customs union' and an 'internal market', guaranteeing 'market access in the agricultural sector' and services (except health and education). more words for what?
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the disappearance of people, with its dramatic consequences at all levels, whether personal, family or social, is unacceptable in any situation, let alone in the european area. the eu cannot abdicate its responsibilities and must play an important role in solving these problems. effective measures, backed by effective cooperation between all the parties concerned, are needed to put an end to the atrocities which have been perpetrated for decades and which are contrary to human dignity and the declaration of human rights. i also welcome the fall of the wall on 9 september, which for decades separated 'the last divided capital of europe'.
in writing. apart from the intrinsic merit of the motion voted, whatever one's views on the cyprus question, this resolution is important because it reminds us that in our 'europe' there is still a wall which is as shameful as the one we used to call 'the shame'. even though in nicosia the wall has been replaced by boards. the evil lies in that line that divides an island, divides europe and punishes both sides. that memory, which should be constant, is recalled with this statement.
in writing. just two further notes to the intervention on this resolution: - i know . i would like to stress that we agree that insularity cannot be confused with ultraperiphery, and that it is therefore necessary to bear in mind that the ultraperiphery regions are doubly penalized: firstly because of their remoteness from the european continent, and secondly because they are structurally disadvantaged areas, due in particular to insularity and other natural and geographical obstacles. - i know . i would like to stress our complete disagreement with the points in the resolution which support the current immigration policy, in particular that from north africa, when it supports the 'creation of rapid border intervention teams' and 'a european coast guard' within the framework of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex), with the aim of 'reducing the immediate pressure associated with solving this problem'. we consider that this repressive policy criminalizes immigrants who are simply seeking better living conditions for themselves and their families, as is the case with the thousands of portuguese who immigrate every year. a policy which avoids and fails to tackle the root causes of immigration, which have long been pointed out, in particular by the united nations. that is why we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. island regions face great difficulties due to natural and economic constraints. the higher transport and energy costs, the scarcity of natural resources, depopulation, the lack of infrastructure and illegal immigration make it necessary to adopt specific community measures to respond effectively to the problems characteristic of these regions. the structural funds are therefore the main instrument for community action in this field, which can respond to the political will of the union not to abandon its islands. very concretely, we need to know exactly what their characteristics and needs are. it is therefore the commission itself which must sustain a culture of respect for its specificities, and it must therefore take border control measures in relation to the illegal immigration which threatens the european islands. or else develop an integrated development policy which can also ensure the sustainability of island economic activities such as tourism. finally, this whole package of measures is crucial if we are to finally create the conditions for these regions to have the same access to the single market as continental regions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
on behalf of the pse group. other i would like to make my own the observations which have been made by our colleague david bowis. there is no reason why the moratorium should not be applied immediately and the studies that the commission considers appropriate should be carried out subsequently. there is a number of impressive data on this subject. there is also a clear example that has already been given by other countries, such as the united states or even mexico (the united states has for more than three decades banned all use of seals), and i cannot understand why the commission feels that it does not yet have enough data to act immediately. the question, as our colleague has already very well put it, is not just a question of sustainability, it is fundamentally a question of ethics, whether it makes any sense, simply to satisfy some fashion questions, to kill in an absolutely barbaric way - as was witnessed by a delegation from the intergroup for animal welfare and conservation, made up of our colleague carl schlyter last year, and as we have witnessed in a variety of ways. if the commission wants to know what is going on on the ground, we will be sending a mission to canada next week. we'll go directly to the sites where this hunt is taking place. the commission is welcome, it certainly has a place in this mission and can clarify any doubts it may still have about this problem.
madam president-in-office, i too, a portuguese socialist and a woman, would like to congratulate chancellor angela merkel on her presidency. i think it's already made a difference and it proves that we do, in fact, need more women in decision-making. in the course of its half-century of existence, the european community has fulfilled the dream of jean monnet: it has consolidated the project of peace, freedom and progress and has widened its frontiers. there are now 27 member states, some of which lived under dictatorships for 50 years and even less recently, as did my country, portugal. more peace, more democracy, more wealth and the free movement of workers and goods, as well as a single currency adopted by 13 countries already, are undoubtedly a priceless legacy. in these 50 years europe has changed, but the world has also changed a lot, and so have the needs of europeans. globalisation, climate change, energy problems, population ageing, migration and terrorism are challenges that require new responses. it is our duty to find solutions to the problems of the present and to respond to the expectations of the citizens. this will be the best way of defending social stability and contributing to world balance. internal peace and stability will be of little use if solutions are not found to the war in iraq, to the crisis in the middle east and also to the serious problems of our neighbours in north africa. the berlin declaration effectively relaunches the debate on the constitutional treaty and commits the 27 member states to providing the european union with a common and renewed basis by the european elections in 2009. we must now reach a rapid consensus. there will undoubtedly be obstacles, but it will be a good opportunity for member states to show the world and their citizens that what unites us is more important than what divides us. only then can they earn the trust of the citizens.
the german presidency is trying to achieve what is known as the 'touch of the cheque' in its agenda for the european union, an instrument which is shaped to suit its growing ambitions. with all the pomp and circumstance possible, the berlin declaration is only one step in this strategy, which aims at the unacceptable recovery in 2009 of the essential contents of the already rejected european constitution. but let's be honest: despite the efforts of the elites to make the event bigger, what was most striking was their artificiality and the total alienation of the different peoples in marking the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome. a sign of the times that the european union is in contradiction with the interests and aspirations of the different peoples of europe and the world. the dominant forces of european capitalist integration are fully aware of this growing contradiction, and therefore the content of the berlin declaration is, in our view, nothing more than an attempt to exploit the legitimate aspirations of the various peoples of europe, which have nothing to do with the real objectives and concrete policies of the european union and the harsh reality that follows from them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. other the present system is unfair and incomprehensible to the citizens. this is the conclusion reached by parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs. there is an urgent need for a review and i therefore welcome this own-initiative report and the excellent work of its rapporteur. europe must be given the means to achieve its strategic objectives, in particular the lisbon strategy and cohesion policy, both at the social and territorial levels. the logic of the 'juste retour' which destroys the very meaning of the common budget and ignores the gains of the internal market which have no budgetary expression must be put to an end. it is also known that the debate on revenue requires a reassessment of priorities on the expenditure side. it is too early to discuss new concrete sources of revenue and timetables. however, it must be ensured that they are progressive, transparent and do not increase the current tax burden on citizens. parliament is today demonstrating that it is willing and able to play a key role in this process. it must be continued for the sake of europe and all its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the current system of financing the european union is exhausted. i am deeply convinced that if the present system is maintained, it will be very difficult to define another financial framework to apply after 2013. if the present system of financing is maintained, european citizens will feel increasingly distant from the european institutions, because this system is based on rules, some of which are the result of very special political circumstances, which were born as transitional but have become definitive and reveal an opacity that makes it difficult for ordinary citizens to understand easily. i think that by maintaining the present system of financing we are going to destroy the core values which have characterized the success of the european union in recent decades. there is already a debate, perhaps almost humiliatingly, almost line by line, about who is or is not a net contributor. i therefore warmly welcome the report by alain lamassoure, which, in a very lucid, prudent and forward-looking way, points to principles, recommendations and methodologies which i think are very appropriate. i would, however, like to stress that this reform is not a matter for the financial forum alone. the reform in question is far-reaching and essentially political. that is why its debate cannot be confined exclusively to this parliament and the council, let alone to ecofin. one of the essential conditions for the success of this reform is the participation of all the institutions - not only european but also national - in the whole process. i would therefore like to leave a final word of appreciation for the proposed methodology which privileges and encourages the participation of national parliaments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the following is the report by mr ville itälä, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the general guidelines for the 2008 budgetary procedure - sections ii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii and ix and on the preliminary draft estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament (section i) for the 2008 budgetary procedure: section i european parliament section ii - council section iv - court of justice section v - court of auditorssection vi - european economic and social committeesection vii - committee of the regionssection viii - ombudsman the ombudsman is responsible for the administration of justice in the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the joint debate on the reports by mr ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the future of professional football in europe [2006/2130 (ini) ] (a6-0036/2007) and mr giusto catania, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on an initiative by the republic of austria with a view to adopting a council decision amending council decision 2002/348/jha of 25 april 2002 on security at international football matches [10543/2006 - c6-0240/2006 - 2006/0806 (cns)) (a6-0052/2007) follows.
mr president, mr commissioner, reflecting the right of every citizen to have recourse to the courts under any of the constitutions of the member states, article 47 of the european charter of fundamental rights enshrines an identical right in favour of every person whose rights and freedoms guaranteed by union law have been violated. the meaning of these precepts is obvious: no jurisdiction or jurisdictional pact can remove or preclude the fundamental right of a person to have recourse to the courts, even though the actual exercise of this right may, in certain situations, be precluded by what forensic language calls a 'defence by exception of jurisdiction'. however, the validity of such exceptions must be recognised by an independent and impartial tribunal previously established by law, as provided for in article 47 of the convention, which will decide on the matter in the exercise of its own jurisdiction. it is therefore not possible to consider that the bringing of legal proceedings by a natural or legal person involves any kind of disciplinary offence. the exercise of a right which is recognised by all constitutions and the european charter cannot amount to an offence of any kind. the belet report therefore enshrines the right principle by maintaining that recourse to civil courts, even when not justified in sporting terms, cannot be penalized by disciplinary regulations by condemning the arbitrary decisions of fifa in this respect. the vote on this principle will not only help to make sport more transparent, but also to reinforce the main principles on which the rule of law is based.
mr solana, where is the effective multilateralism that you have been fighting for with the support of the european parliament if the unilateral american plans to place the abm system on eu territory are just a bilateral issue or, as i said today, a matter for a defence alliance? these plans are designed to weaken europe's foreign and defence policy. even if they were agreed within nato (and they have not yet been), they would have consequences for the eu's defence industries. how can the council then rule out consultation on this matter between all the member states? how can we accept plans supposedly designed to protect europe which are based on dubious technology and which divide the eu by leaving some member states out? what threat is more threatening to poland and the czech republic than to greece, cyprus, spain or portugal? as you have said today, mr solana, we in the eu want to combat proliferation, but on the contrary, in addition to other repercussions on relations with russia, these plans only encourage proliferation. so many in the united states, in the american congress, also reject them. they're the ones we should be working with!
the installation of us missile defence systems in europe is just one more evidence of the bet on the arms race and the vertiginous increase in military spending promoted by the us to support its policy of imperialist interference, aggression and occupation, with the support of its allies, particularly in nato. this initiative must be seen in the context of the change in nato's strategic concept and its enlargement to the borders of the russian federation, and the increasing aggressiveness of imperialism, with interventions in yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq and the middle east and new threats to other sovereign states. this situation, despite the differences within the eu, will substantially aggravate the political division of the continent. the russian federation is giving clear signals that the 'red line' is (long) being crossed. however, the us plan to create a 'global missile defence system', which envisages the installation of new bases in europe, notably in the czech republic (radars) and poland (missiles), is facing growing resistance. the czech and polish people are increasingly expressing their rejection of this us intention. let's mobilize the peace movement!
the rapporteur. i think it is not very popular to speak, but i just wanted to take the opportunity to convey two messages: the first to thank the cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs and commission representatives and the close collaboration with three council presidencies involved in this co-decision process (the austrian, finnish and german) with a special positive note on the german presidency which helped to solve a final problem of comitology; a second note to say that the 170 amendments are a positive aspect in the role of parliament because they reduce the administrative burden on companies at several levels: they remove minor variables, exempt some small and medium-sized companies from responding to surveys and favour the use of administrative sources. this is just one of the aspects which i think can - and should - justify parliament's approval at first reading.
in writing. this report is part of the 'third maritime safety package' whose general objectives are the prevention of accidents and the combating of their consequences. it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure that ships registered in their registers comply with international standards. any initiative taken at eu level to promote the prevention and control of maritime accidents should not undermine this competence. on this basis, we generally agree with the proposed measures, such as the verification by member states, when registering ships, of compliance with international rules and standards, in particular by the presentation of documents proving this; the development and implementation of a control and monitoring programme for ships flying their flag; and the guarantee of the training and supervision of inspectors and investigators. however, the financial means required to implement and apply these measures should be able to rely on community co-financing, which is not clear in this proposal. the memory of the recent accidents with the erika and the prestige is still vivid, and we believe that all the proposals put forward in this context should be the subject of a wide-ranging debate, ensuring the participation of workers in the sector and the general public.
in writing. following the accidents of the erika and the prestige, the latter in 2002 and at the entrance to portugal's exclusive maritime zone, the eu has drawn up several legislative proposals aimed at preventing such disasters or at least minimising their consequences and identifying the responsibilities and those responsible. this report, which was prepared by my colleague gilles savary and which i voted in favour of, deals with one of these proposals. i consider it essential because it establishes a minimum of rules common to all member states on the civil liability and financial security of shipowners (extended to all other persons liable) and others, with a view to preventing accidents and ratifying certain international conventions, in particular the convention on the limitation of liability for maritime accidents, the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea and the international convention on civil liability for damage caused by pollution from oil-based fuels. i also welcome the proposal to set up a solidarity fund to ensure that even ships not covered by any kind of financial guarantee are given adequate protection and financial compensation.
in writing. this report forms part of the 'third maritime safety package', a package of legislative measures aimed at strengthening the prevention of accidents and pollution and the management of the consequences of accidents. the proposal aims to establish a system of civil liability for damage caused to third parties by shipowners and to lay down rules to prevent accidents. in particular, it calls on all member states to become contracting parties to various international conventions and to introduce a better guarantee of compensation for victims and crew in the event of an accident. the proposal also provides for the creation of a solidarity fund to compensate victims of damage caused by ships not covered by a financial guarantee certificate, since such compensation should not be borne by the member state in which the accident occurred. it is up to the member states to ensure that all the criteria are met and to impose penalties in the event of non-compliance. these are essentially positive measures which we support. however, it is possible that in future the control measures will not be the responsibility of the member states but of a community body which is proposed here - the community registry office - which raises serious doubts for us.
in writing. although the commission proposal for a regulation and the report adopted by the committee on agriculture represent a positive overall contribution to the definition of the common principles and rules applicable to organic production, with the essential aim of improving consumer confidence, there are still a number of aspects which fall short of our concerns. however, since we regard the question of the contamination of organic products by gmos as a key issue and because the amendment tabled by the pes group, which is sensible and realistic, setting a maximum threshold of 0.1% allowed only for accidental reasons, was well received, we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. it is known that about 70% of european consumers do not want to consume gmos. the fact that the regulation authorizes the presence of up to 0.9% of genetically modified organisms in organic products is unacceptable and is a blow to organic farming. to tolerate the 0.9% in the report (or the 0.1% that some have proposed and which was accepted in plenary) of contamination by gmos is to accept the transgenic contamination of organic products, which will have undeniable consequences for consumers and constitutes a serious and unacceptable threat to the survival of the organic production sector. consumers choose organic products because they are produced in a more sustainable way, without the use of pesticides, and because they are completely free of genetically modified organisms. the introduction of these substances, even in small quantities, is a way of manipulating consumers with serious consequences for the environment and for health in general. contrary to the path that this report opens, there is a need for more sustainable forms of agricultural production, based on the productive diversity of each country and each region, on the value of small and mediumsized farmers and family farming, rejecting the "productivist" model that is being sought.
in writing. i believe that products labelled as 'organic' should not contain any percentage of gmos and consumers are entitled to this guarantee when they buy a certain product labelled as organic. moreover, if products with a 0.9% gm content were to be labelled as organic, we would risk seeing the emergence of another type of labelling - 'gmo-free' - calling into question the status of organic farming. i therefore voted in favour of the amendments to ban the use of gmos in organic farming and the labelling of organic products altogether. i also voted in favour of the amendment which introduces products such as salt, wool, preserved fish, cosmetics, food supplements and essential oils under the regulation in question, since these products are linked, at least during one of the production stages, to the natural environment.
in writing. unfortunately, violence at football matches is not an isolated phenomenon, but one that has been happening in succession over the last few years (for example, at the 2006 world cup in germany and the recent incidents at national championships in italy, spain, croatia and england). it is therefore necessary to adopt the necessary and appropriate measures to ensure that such sporting events can take place as calmly as possible, without gratuitous manifestations of violence and racism. i therefore support this initiative by austria to update the decision on the establishment in each member state of a national football information point to serve as a contact point for the exchange of police information relating to football matches. it is essential that competent authorities are able to strengthen their cooperation and to professionalise the exchange of information, and that each member state is able to carry out an effective risk analysis. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the community.
in writing. the serious situation in the balkans, particularly in the serbian province of kosovo, is the result of a long process of interference, aggression and military occupation, promoted by the eu and the usa, which, exploiting real contradictions and difficulties in yugoslavia, imposed their domination in the region. the situation in kosovo is particularly significant. after the military aggression of nato, the us and the eu created a protectorate and installed important military bases in this province of serbia, not even complying with the provisions of un security council resolution 1244. the 'solution' proposed by martti ahtisaari, the un secretary-general's special envoy for the future of kosovo, is in the same direction. the end of serbia's sovereignty over part of its territory, with the (pseudo) 'independence' of kosovo under eu and us occupation, notably through the so-called 'civilian' eu presence in the framework of the esdp, supported by nato troops and the authority of a so-called 'international civilian representative' with full powers. we believe that the solution to the situation in kosovo must respect international law and the sovereignty of serbia, which is guaranteed by resolution 1244. any other (false) solution could have unforeseeable consequences in this strategic region. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the guidelines for what we might call the main budget of the european union - the budget of the european commission - are not only an indicator of the priorities and prospects for the coming year. as regards the guidelines for the institutions' 2008 budget, it is expected that it should remain close to the levels of previous years, in particular as regards staff policy. although a number of reports on the development of recruitment policy and the status of recruited staff have been requested by the european parliament, no information has been made available so far. however, we are concerned about the increasing substitution of service contracts for permanent contracts, the existence of a number of workers who after decades of service are still without a permanent contract, and the 'transfer' of many workers to temporary work enterprises. in fact, the precariousness of industrial relations is promoted by the destruction of workers' rights, the much-vaunted (and false) 'new social europe' to be applied to workers in the european parliament, ... this unacceptable 'flexicurity'.
in writing. we voted against the third part of paragraph 25 of the lamassoure report for two main reasons: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is being proposed is a real renationalisation of the cap. the proposal for co-financing, i.e. for member states to part-finance the cap's first pillar budget, is unjustified because there are other solutions which allow the financial commitments made by the council in october 2002 to be respected without having to resort to the sharing of the national budgets of the 15 member states which constituted the union until enlargement in 2004. as an alternative to co-financing, it is possible to set ceilings on the aid that is individually allocated to farmers (for example, in the usa, where this limit is set at usd 250 000), and to establish a 'compulsory modulation', that is, a percentage reduction in aid to the largest beneficiaries of direct aid from the cap, thus generating the savings necessary to honour the commitments made. (2) because there is an insurmountable contradiction in the wording of this paragraph. the commission is also proposing that the current system of community financing be abolished and national co-financing introduced. national co-financing is precisely the main instrument for renationalising the cap, giving farmers in the member states with the most budgetary resources a clear advantage over farmers in member states in the opposite situation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i consider the current system of the eu's own resources, which is based almost exclusively on contributions from the member states, to be lacking in transparency, efficiency and fairness. it needs to be reformed urgently, or else a situation of budgetary imbalance and inequality created by the lack of recognition that a better union can only be achieved with more and better policies, including at budgetary level, accompanied by sufficient resources, will worsen. having spoken on this in the committee on regional development, which submitted an opinion to the committee on budgets, i tabled amendments, which were subsequently adopted by a large majority, aimed at establishing a direct link between the citizen and the eu by paying part of an existing tax, so as not to increase the heavy tax burden on european taxpayers, and at ending budgetary rebates for certain countries, many of which have prosperity levels above the european average, as is the case with the united kingdom. finally, i also argued that future considerations of the eu's own resources should take account of the special fiscal provisions in the treaties for the eu's outermost regions.
in writing. the ep wants to open the debate on the eu's own resources, in advance of the discussion to be held in 2008/2009, made possible by the revision clause provided for in the interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspectives 2007/2013. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this is because, according to the national parliaments, 'in the short term it is still premature to have a genuinely european tax'. we reject any attempt to introduce, directly or indirectly, european taxes, whether in the short or long term. we believe that a fair system of own resources should be based on national contributions in accordance with the relative wealth of each country (based on its gni), aiming to ensure that the effort in the budgetary contribution is similar for all citizens of the different eu member states, ensuring an appropriate redistributive role of the community budget, giving priority to real convergence and effective economic and social cohesion.
in writing. the report has many positive aspects, although we have doubts about the final wording of some points. we believe that the way professional football is approached needs to be taken into account. we cannot reduce everything to the framework of organised competition, leaving out the most important issues of football as a game and its contribution to the development of the capacity for anticipation, imagination, association and creativity in children and young people, especially in the knowledge and awareness of themselves and others, through themselves. the artificial division between professional and amateur sport (this is achieved in certain ways, even in a competitive context, in which the practitioners have a different profession and a different paid activity) ignores the rights that naturally have to derive from the duties inherent in this type of sporting activity towards clubs, the associative masses, their directorships, the sports associations, the rules and the standards and structures of professional football. this is a present reality, and as long as it exists we cannot bury our heads in the sand or take our wishes for granted. we therefore have a duty to help create conditions, without patronizing them, so that their workers can defend their rights, taking into account that they run all the risks also inherent in an activity of rapid wear and tear and premature social exclusion.
in writing. football equally vibrates people from the modern and sophisticated cities of the west to the far reaches of australia and the pacific, or from any lost village in central asia or the deepest part of africa. as well as passion, football is also one of the most powerful universal languages. and it is these characteristics - passion and universal language - that give it its strength and extraordinary capacity for mobilization. to be able to put this strength at the service not only of entertainment and a legitimate economy of its own, but also of social causes, of an equally universal dimension and reach, is a huge potential of football that cannot be ignored. i support this report and would like to stress that although the bodies responsible for football management may have a legitimate desire to preserve their internal procedures, recourse to the jurisdiction of ordinary courts, even when it is unreasonable in matters of sports justice, cannot constitute any disciplinary offence. i therefore recommend that football's governing bodies examine their statutes in order to strike a balance between the right that all sports actors should legitimately have to appeal to the common courts and the normal operation of sports competitions.
since the council does not intend to intervene in this matter, the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the report by mr miroslav mikolášik, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on advanced therapy medicinal products and amending directive 2001/83/ec and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 (com (2005) 0567 - c6-0401/2005 - 2005/0227 (cod)) (a6-0031/2007) is attached.
mr president, economic and social cohesion, which is enshrined in the treaties, should effectively guide community policies and be implemented, for example by ensuring the redistributive nature of the community budget. in this sense, regional development policy is an indispensable instrument for promoting the reduction of regional disparities and real convergence, economic growth and employment, acting as a supposed compensation for economically less developed regions and countries, in order to minimise the consequences of the internal market, the euro and the liberalisation of public services and trade in goods and services. it is noted that the current regional cohesion policy has undergone changes in its objectives and financial cuts in the current financial framework 2007-2013. the report now before us goes further into these negative trends, and it proceeds with proposals for guidelines which, if implemented, would distort and call into question a real cohesion policy. we therefore oppose proposals which, while seeking to maintain the existing financial resources, particularly in the context of future enlargements, aim to redistribute the financial resources of the regions and countries of cohesion among themselves, while the economically less developed continue to pay for enlargement, whereas the economically more developed are the ones who derive the greatest benefit from it. replace part of the financing from community funds by increasing national co-financing, access to loans or private co-financing. to set a maximum deadline for regions to have access to structural funds, to make access to cohesion policy conditional on the implementation of a national economic policy defined in accordance with the criteria of the lisbon strategy and the stability pact. contrary to these and other intentions, with which we strongly disagree, we have tabled a number of amendments to this report which, in the name of a genuine defence of cohesion policy, we hope will be adopted.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of a debate which i found to be very instructive and on which i would like to highlight some of the points which i consider most important. firstly, the message that we must not allow the temptation to renationalize europe by cutting the human resources and the staff needed to run the european commission to continue. it is a fundamental concern which was expressed here by my colleague catherine guy-quint and which i believe is the most important in the implementation of the 2008 budget. secondly, the priority to be given to an information policy which reveals what europe is really doing in budgetary terms. in this report, for which i congratulate our rapporteur, mr virrankoski, i would like to stress point 8 and in particular the importance here of clarity, consistency and transparency in the presentation of the budget, in particular the fact that we have a budgeting by activities, the so-called abb, which has no correspondence that is understandable to the reader with the nomenclature of the financial framework. the budget of the european union must be presented in a perfectly clear, coordinated way, in which all the headings can be read in various ways, without losing sight of the big picture. this is a fundamental work which is very well marked out at point 8. and as regards the opinion given to us by the committee on foreign affairs, i would like to stress point 12 on iraq. i think it is quite rightly said that european investment in iraq is not visible. it must be made visible, on the one hand through a development policy where it can be put into practice, which is in iraqi kurdistan, and on the other hand in relation to the rest of iraq and the immense mass of iraqi refugees, europe must act immediately, as the high commissioner for refugees, antónio guterres, said very well last week in geneva.
madam president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the excellent work that has been done here, and of course i would also like to congratulate the chairmen of our committee, mr fazakas and mr herbert bösch. i would also like to take note with appreciation of the words of vice-president kallas, particularly with regard to the ex post audits that will be carried out in all matters relating to the direct management of funds, and i must say at once that we will be very attentive to these audits, their methodologies, the error rates that are found there and the necessary comparison with the results obtained by the court of auditors. but i would like above all to tell our vice-president that this parliament has an absolutely decisive power in discharge and that this power will certainly be used to its full extent when we are here next year to discuss the subject of recoveries of funds. i have written a report which is very critical of the way the european commission is handling this issue. the court of auditors stated in the committee on budgetary control that it could not find the billions of recoveries announced by the commission. i must say that i am also unable to find these recoveries announced by the commission and i would like to say that next year this matter must be dealt with in a totally different way, or else we will have to approach this matter in a much tougher way.
in writing. while recognising the need for europol to make internal adjustments, particularly in terms of salaries and allowances, the european parliament has consistently rejected all initiatives since 1998 when consulted on detailed matters relating to europol. in fact, such consultation could not be considered relevant as long as europol remained in the intergovernmental sphere, without democratic and judicial control. i am glad that the successive requests of the ep have finally been answered with the presentation by the commission last december of the proposal which aims to give europol a more acceptable legal framework, giving it the status of an eu agency, financed from the community budget and applying the staff regulations to its staff. although the process of transforming europol is not yet complete, i have decided to give my favourable vote to this finnish initiative on the adjustment of europol's salaries and allowances, as a sign of goodwill and full support for this process of transformation, which i hope will be brought to a successful conclusion as soon as possible.
in writing. bulgarian and romanian refineries are significantly dependent on imports of cane sugar from third countries. therefore, and in order to avoid interruption of the supply of sugar cane to the full-time refineries of those two countries, it is necessary to open the tariff quotas applicable to imports of that type of sugar from third countries into bulgaria and romania. this is the follow-up to the european commission proposal, which has no effect on refineries in other member states. i agree with the european commission's proposal, given the exceptional nature of the measure, and i vote in favour of the graefe zu baringdorf report.
in writing. in the current monopoly phase of capitalism, the financialization of the economy has been the answer to manage the contradictions of the system that lives on financial speculation, creating an ever-growing need to bring more money into the financial sphere. this directive is in line with that objective. the proposal aims to create an internal market for payment services and is part of the financial services action plan aimed at integrating the eu's financial services markets. once again, this area is marked by private initiative, notably from the banking sector, but the purpose is always the same: to promote the opening up of national markets to the provision of crossborder payment services, to weaken the prevention rules and to allow operators outside the supervision of the banking sector to provide these services, while promoting the concentration of the sector at eu level. countries which, like portugal, already have advanced payment operators and services (the case of the multibanco system) are particularly affected in this context, as the question of data transmission to information services, including external ones, is not clear. for all these reasons, we voted against this report.
in writing. we are pleased that, in the light of our proposals and intervention, they have succeeded in removing from this report some of their most burdensome proposals, which would call cohesion policy into question and would condition the debate on the mid-term review of the current financial framework and cohesion policy, in particular the rejection of:- increasing national co-financing of cohesion policy;- establishing a maximum period for receiving structural funds irrespective of eligibility criteria;- conditioning the allocation of funds on certain criteria for compliance with economic and/or budgetary policies, such as the stability pact. we also welcome, irrespective of one's position on the eu enlargement process, the fact that proposals aimed at creating a differentiated accession status for new countries, in which they would be fully integrated into the internal market but without any participation in the institutions or decision-making process, creating a neocolonialism where such aid would always be conditional on political impositions, have been eliminated from the report. however, the report still contains serious points, particularly as regards the financial means and the objectives of cohesion policy, with which we cannot agree, which justifies our vote against.
in writing. cohesion is a principle and a value of the eu at 12 or 30. firstly, because the assumption is that the partners in the same project should benefit from it in the same way; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for this reason, i share many of the concerns raised by the rapporteur, even if i do not fully follow all the solutions proposed. but there are other aspects to consider. the kind of economic challenge that the present time brings us, with its origin in the pressures of globalisation and the accelerated modernisation of economic structures, suggests that we look for the most appropriate instruments for changing paradigms. so i believe that while we must be steadfast in our values and guiding principles, we must also be creative and innovative in responding to new challenges. preparing the economically less favoured regions for the 21st century is no longer a visionary gesture, it is a requirement of the times. the time is different, the answers must be innovative.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because, firstly, it draws attention to the budgetary difficulties which the member states are expected to face, given the foreseeable demographic developments within the union. this is of the utmost importance because, with the enlargement of the eu, expenditure on cohesion policy would reach a politically unrealistic value. secondly, it would not be acceptable for some regions of the eu to lose out on the statistical effect of further enlargement, plus the negative effects that some european regions will experience as a result of globalisation. we are therefore faced with a question which requires great caution and i therefore support the request to the commission to assess the regional policy expenditure which the next enlargements may entail if the present criteria are applied and the consequences for the regions hitherto considered eligible. finally, i agree with the need to develop phased approaches which allow for a greater differentiation between pre-accession assistance and full membership in the context of cohesion policy.
in writing. the presentation of the commission's political strategy for 2008 marks the beginning of the negotiating process for the community budget. the aim is to see 2008 as the penultimate year of the sixth parliamentary term of the european parliament and the barroso commission, in the context of the attempt to revive the already rejected constitutional treaty and the debate on the community budget for 2008-09. the commission's political priorities include, and the negative one, the liberalisation of the labour market through so-called flexicurity, the financing of european infrastructure to support the liberalisation of gas and electricity, the creation of a european patent or the strengthening of the eu's military component. the commission states that the 2008 budget will be developed on the basis of the 2007 budget, which appears to fall once again below the ceiling budgeted in the financial perspectives for 2007-2013 and to be manifestly insufficient to meet the needs of economic and social cohesion in the enlarged european union. we reject such proposals and insist on the need for policies that promote sustainable economic development and employment, combat unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and income inequalities, and reduce regional disparities and promote real convergence.
in writing. we have voted in favour of this report because it contains very positive aspects, of which the following stand out: - urge the commission to allocate resources to prevention measures under the public health action programme to combat hiv/aids and to require recipients of public funds for pharmaceutical research to devote a certain part of their research to those diseases; - stress that palliative care should play an important role in the treatment of people with hiv/aids, and urge the development and expansion of such care throughout the european union; - ask the commission to pay particular attention to the promotion of sexual and reproductive health programmes for women in order to counter the growing spread of the epidemic among the female population; - encourage the commission and the member states to subsidize and finance research and development of microbicides and female condoms which are a possibility of protection against hiv/aids for women and their partners, but without the consent of men, or with the consent of condoms, which continue to be the most widely available means of protection against hiv/aids and sexually transmitted diseases, and the most widely available means of protection against hiv/aids and sexually transmitted diseases.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, mr president of the council, commissioner barrot, ladies and gentlemen, at the time when the erika 3 package for enhanced security and the future european maritime strategy are being discussed, i would like to start by recalling the importance of our seas and oceans as a public resource. its contribution is crucial to the geographical size of the european union and its single market and, therefore, to its capacity for influence at world level, giving the european union the largest maritime area in the world, notably through its outermost regions and 320 000 kilometres of coastline, where one third of the european population lives, but also to boosting maritime transport to and from the european union and within it. as the shadow rapporteur for the report by my colleague mr costa on the civil liability of transport companies, i would like to congratulate mr costa and all the rapporteurs on their openness and good work and i have tried to defend the importance of this report to the various interested parties, consulting them in order to hear their views. i have also done so by strengthening the rights of passengers in the event of an accident or incident, by ensuring that they are adequately compensated financially in order to alleviate the damage suffered when the worst happens, and as everyone knows, the worst does happen, as the erika and prestige incidents prove. i think that the shipping companies should be the first to have increased responsibility in the event of an accident or incident, because it is on them that we place all our trust in the event of the worst. i believe that any victims should have access to prompt and fair compensation, and i have therefore tabled proposals to that effect and intend to vote against the amendments which seek to remove from the scope of this proposal any rights applicable to inland waterways, because tragedies also occur in these areas and they are a mode of transport to be encouraged for environmental and economic reasons. as the vice-president has said, safety regulations must apply to all areas of maritime navigation, including inland waterways. is it acceptable to give protection on an international route and refuse it when a ship occasionally enters inland waterways, as rapporteur costa has rightly pointed out? the single market cannot be achieved by legal loopholes in terms of liability or by reducing rights, especially when the burden on the private sector is reduced in economic terms, as the commission has said. the amendments proposed aim to strengthen the information requirements for passengers in order to make it clearer and more accessible and, on the other hand, to ensure that appropriate financial support is provided as quickly as possible and without hindrance. it is also in this context that i welcome the possibility for member states to extend the compensation provided for in the convention. for these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, i urge you to vote in favour of these reports as they stand, if our work today and now to ensure that not one victim has access to adequate support has paid off and parliament will once again be the institution that truly represents the european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the maritime safety issue is not only controversial and demanding, it is also crucial to elevating ships, freighters and tankers to the status of safe and reliable means of transport in the face of accidents and environmental tragedies. we cannot give up this principle. that is why i would like to congratulate our fellow rapporteurs on the work they have done and the efforts they have made to find good solutions together with the representatives of the organisations concerned by the proposals. the measures, both preventive and dealing with the consequences of accidents, which we are discussing here today - to which we must of course add the two others already adopted at the last part-session - reveal the effort of this parliament to ensure a prompt and coherent response to the question of maritime safety, which allows us to expect that the commission, and above all the council, will proceed with the same speed and in the same direction with the subsequent approach to this dossier. we also take this opportunity to congratulate the council on its intention to take a political decision on this matter as early as next july. measures such as the strengthening of provisions on compensation for persons and property in the event of a maritime accident, the development and improvement of the system for the exchange of data on the transport of dangerous substances, the monitoring of ship traffic and the exchange of information on it, the clarification of the nature and scope of safety investigations by permanent and impartial bodies, are intended to contribute to the establishment of clearer rules and to the strengthening of the joint work to be carried out by the various authorities involved. the strengthening of port inspections of ships, focusing on ships at risk, and of the control systems of certified bodies, through the reform of the sanctions system and the promotion of the autonomy of action and independence of inspection bodies, are also major initiatives that will provide safer maritime transport with rules that are more visible and more effective for their users. finally, we can thus, by strengthening legislation and better coordinating it with the conventions agreed within the imo, contribute to greater safety and better maritime transport without the backlash of the sea, to the benefit of the environment, the people and the goods being transported.
the question period is now over (b6-0017/2007). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 42 by alain hutchinson (h-0212/07) subject: blackmail of vw forest workers - reverse relocations by making the continuation of activity at the volkswagen forest plant conditional on an increase in working hours without an increase in wages and on greater flexibility, the managers of this plant blackmailed the workers with their employment. the workers had no choice but to accept, or the factory would close its doors. in its resolution of 14 march 2006 on relocations in the context of regional development, the european parliament called for measures to be taken against this kind of blackmail with employment, which can be described as 'reverse relocation', since it has the effect of lowering working conditions without relocating the company's activity. will the commission state what measures it will propose to prevent reverse relocations which lead to a deterioration in working conditions without relocating the company's activity?
question no 43 by mr ignasi guardans cambó (h-0244/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: risks of arbitrariness and contradiction in the application of new aviation safety measures on 6 november 2006, regulation (ec) no 1546/2006 (oj l 286, 17.10.2006, p. 6) which amends regulation (ec) no 622/2003 (oj l 89, 5.4.2003, p. 9) on aviation safety, entered into force. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european aviation safety agency (easa) to be set up by the european union. given the confidential nature of the annex setting out the new security measures and the lack of clear instructions on the application of the measures, can the european commission inform us of the risks that this secrecy could give rise to a multiplicity of interpretations in the application of the measures, not only between member states but also between airports in the same member state? has the commission carried out an analysis of the application of these measures at eu airports? what steps does the commission intend to take to prevent a disparity in the application of these measures at european airports which could affect the rights of european passengers?
question no 44 by mr jacek protasiewicz (h-0265/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: application of state aid rules to support the employment of disabled people in the light of the experience gained to date with the application by member states of measures to support the employment of disabled persons in accordance with regulation (ec) no 2204/2002 (oj l 337, 13.12.2002, p. 3) and in the light of the amendments to the state aid legislation planned by the commission (state aid action plan), does the commission intend to amend in the future the rules on the monitoring of support for the employment of such workers, together with the requirements for programmes exempted from the mandatory notification requirement under the block exemptions, and to introduce measures to determine the additional costs arising from the employment of disabled persons on a flat-rate basis, in compliance with the principles of the common market? does the commission consider that the support currently given to employers employing disabled people should in future be treated as state aid?
question no 45 by mr martin dimitrov (h-0219/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: amendment to directive 92/84/eec with a view to increasing the minimum rates of excise duty on alcoholic beverages the european commission is proposing (com (2006) 486 final) to amend directive 92/84/eec to include the following elements: oj l 316, 31.10.1992, p. 29 with a view to raising the minimum rates of excise duty on alcoholic beverages. this proposal is based on the argument that since 1992 there has been no adjustment of the minimum rates of excise duty to inflation, which has since reached 31%. it should be noted that over the past 15 years the existence of minimum rates has not led to convergence of excise duty rates in the eu. the high excise duty rates on alcoholic beverages are the main reason for smuggling and encourage its increase, particularly in eastern europe. taxation of national rakia production, for example, has been introduced in bulgaria, causing significant discontent among the population. does the commission consider that, in view of the significant wage differentials in the eu, especially after the last two enlargements, minimum excise duty rates on alcoholic products should continue to exist?
question 46 has been withdrawn.
i shall accept three supplementary questions as an exception, in accordance with the exchange of views i had with mr de rossa.
as you know, the bureau will only accept two supplementary questions. i exceptionally accepted three because mr de rossa was prepared to take part in another question, which had been withdrawn. the commissioner, mr kovács, was kind enough to allow mr de rossa's question to be answered.
question no 47 by mr gianluca susta (h-0216/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: enrollment in the european schools the registration campaign for the european schools in brussels is currently under way and is managed by the central registration authority (aci). in reality, this authority is practically a fiction, for it lacks staff and means. in particular, it does not collect the information necessary for an effective control of the data on current and future enrolments (for example, it does not indicate the number of siblings to be enrolled in the coming years). the information campaign is also weak and, among other things, no receipt is issued to households for the registration. does the commission not consider that, once again, the lack of professionalism of the general secretariat of the european schools and the negligence of the relevant departments of dg admin could render futile the desire of the higher council to ensure a transparent and impartial enrolment process and, above all, jeopardise possible improvements in the enrolment policy in the future? what steps does the commission intend to take to ensure that the occupation of berkendael is not a failure? what steps will you take to ensure that the european schools dispute settlement chamber can be used to challenge enrolment decisions on a specific legal basis already in the current enrolment campaign?
question no 48 by mr proinsias de rossa (h-0247/07) subject: restructuring of the eurydice network is the commission aware of the implications for european policies of the loss of skills and experience acquired in european education policies and programmes - a loss resulting from the decision to replace qualified staff in the eurydice unit with staff recruited through a general call for tenders, a call for tenders which is not intended to enhance the experience of staff currently assigned to the eurydice unit or of staff with comparable experience and skills? will the commission state what measures it intends to take to avoid the deplorable loss of such a valuable resource which such an initiative will inevitably entail?
question no 49 by leopold józef rutowicz (h-0251/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: management of eu funds the funds earmarked for the operation of the parliament's buildings in strasbourg - ipe-0, ipe-1 and ipe-2 (also known as wic and sdm) - could be used for more useful purposes for society, such as scientific research. the existence of overpayments, estimated by the ep administration to be at least €32 million over the 25-year lease period, has been the subject of considerable controversy (markus ferber report, a6-0280/2006). what plans are there to manage eu funds in such a way as to restrict expenditure on renting buildings and to make better use of the buildings themselves, thus reducing administrative costs?
since the author is not present, question no 50 is inadmissible.
question no 51 by mr claude moraes (h-0180/07) subject: european regional development fund (erdf) is a european union fund for the development of the regions of the community. will the commission state how the operational programmes submitted under the european regional development fund will take into account the needs of disadvantaged groups? will the commission ensure that the evaluation of these operational programmes gives priority to the particular problems faced by the poorest communities?
question no 52 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0182/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: regional policy for island regions the fact that 2007 has been declared the european year of equal opportunities for all has an impact on eu regional policy. in order to have equal opportunities, insular, mountainous and sparsely populated regions such as those in island greece need more flexible criteria to meet the eligibility conditions and special treatment of certain locations with specific problems (e.g. difficult access, climatic conditions, particular economic activity) within the framework of regional policy. how does the commission assess the way in which these regions have been treated by the european union? how do you explain your continuing inferiority in comparison with the spectacular progress of other continental and densely populated regions?
question no 53 by glenis willmott (h-0185/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: disclosure of funding in eu regions in the uk, as certainly in other european countries, there is little awareness and recognition of the various applications of eu funds in regenerating the less prosperous regions. eu-funded regional projects are among the most visible benefits of membership of the european union and as such, european citizens should be more aware of the eu's contribution to improving their daily lives. what measures has the commission taken to ensure that the beneficiaries of the structural funds promote and disseminate the source of their funding? in order to bring the european union closer to the citizens, does the commission intend to create a central database containing information on eu funding, broken down by region, and allowing citizens to see clearly which funds are invested in their region?
question no 54 by mr lambert van nistelrooij (h-0195/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: statute for the netherlands antilles and the structural funds article 299 of the treaty on european union lists the outermost regions of the eu. the islands of saint martin and curaçao, which are currently part of the netherlands antilles, announced in 2005 that they would, as of 1 july 2007, have a special status in the kingdom of the netherlands, as would aruba. the other three islands, saba, sint eustatius and bonaire, will have a status similar to that of a dutch municipality and will have the right to vote in elections to the european parliament. the authorities responsible are currently considering the status of an outermost region for each of these islands, which would thus become an integral part of the eu. does the commission know which islands in the antilles qualify as outermost regions? what are the commission's views on the possible consequences of this for the granting of aid under the eu structural funds?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time to the commission is closed.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr seeber, on the way he has conducted the informal negotiations. the negotiations were very fruitful and resulted in a compromise package of amendments which was largely agreed by consensus and which should be approved by the council. the socialist group supports the compromise reached, since it corresponds to the fundamental objective of this directive. ensure the protection of human health, the environment, cultural heritage and economic activities, taking into account the impact of climate change on floods. there are more and more periods of extreme drought, followed by periods of heavy rainfall, resulting in more flooding. the current proposal also seeks to ensure greater environmental protection by advocating the inclusion in risk maps of information on potential sources of environmental pollution resulting from floods. i also welcome the fact that member states are taking responsibility for promoting sustainable land use, i.e. member states should be more careful in their land-use planning policies. it also calls for the principle of solidarity, dialogue and coordination between neighbouring countries. cyclically, we know, natural disasters leave a trail of destruction and death. according to the world health organization, natural disasters kill hundreds of people every year. to avoid greater evils, we must move from a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention. better to be safe than sorry. it's more efficient and less expensive.
mr president, in a neighbourhood of baghdad, the american army is currently building a wall that, in the name of security, separates iraqis from iraqis. he does so despite protests from the neighbourhood residents and criticism from the prime minister himself. the bush administration loves walls, whether they're in baghdad or palestine or on your border with mexico, but the perspective of europeans can only be different. it was in berlin that what should have been the last of the walls fell. the euro-atlantic relations must therefore be guided by politics. it is true that for the europe of economic liberalism, politics is business, even if the depreciation of the dollar, the environmental dumping of those who do not ratify kyoto or the disparity between social rights show how dangerous the adventure of blindly removing barriers to the movement of capital in a world of walls is.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to be very brief in view of the passage of time, but i would like to thank you very much for the engaged and open debate. one important point emerged: it is better to talk to each other than to talk about each other. the way in which the contacts between members of this house and members of congress take place shows that the only way to learn from and understand each other better is to talk to each other. the transatlantic relationship has been important in the past and will continue to be important in the future, especially in the light of the challenges we have identified together in the european union - the question of energy and climate change, but also, for example, the fight against international terrorism. the relationship with other major economic players shows that we can only do all this together and not against each other. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. you mentioned pragmatism. this is the way. pragmatism is important in a constant dialogue with the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these issues are also openly discussed. it won't evade. the commission and the presidency made it clear at the time that all this had to be discussed with the americans. i would also like to stress once again the visa-free regime. there must be no difference in treatment within the european union as regards the question of who can travel to america without a visa. this possibility must be open to citizens of all the member states of the european union, because we are acting as the european union vis-à-vis america. let me address a few critical remarks. i believe that the european union has succeeded in moving away from unilateralism in certain international conflicts and towards multilateralism. the european union has thus succeeded in involving america in its initiatives on iran, also in partnership and coordination with china and russia. the commission has also taken important steps. i know that members of parliament can never be satisfied with what has been achieved so far in the middle east. but after the lebanon-israel conflict, there has been a lot of lobbying to get the quartet back on the ground. and one of the important things we can do is to work with america to address these issues. i hope that this joint summit between the european union and the united states will provide a solid basis for the future, so that we can then address critical issues. you don't always have to assume that a fight between you is a threat to an alliance or a relationship.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are many interesting approaches to this and i think it would be good to have some answers. i welcome the parliament's view that we should work with the united states to find multilateral solutions to common challenges. i fully share that concern. i can assure you that we will work hard to ensure that the eu-us summit declaration clearly and unequivocally expresses our shared determination to strengthen the united nations and to equip it with the means it needs to fulfil its mandate. at the eu-us summit we will continue to urge the us to make the united nations the preferred solution to crises such as iran, sudan and afghanistan, and of course to follow the middle east quartet approach to the middle east peace process. another example is climate change, which can only be tackled effectively at the multilateral level. we will seek the support of the united states at the summit to enable negotiations on a global framework to be launched at the united nations-requested talks to be held in bali/indonesia in december. the commission has repeatedly supported the efforts of the various council presidencies to make it clear to the united states that we must fully commit ourselves to the application of international law in humanitarian matters and in the field of human rights. i would remind you that the eu was able to persuade president bush at the 2006 summit to declare that he wanted guantanamo closed and that the remaining detainees must either be brought to justice or released. the concerns you have expressed were one of the main reasons for the start of the eu-troika dialogue with the legal adviser to the us state department. i also welcome the idea of increased dialogue between members of the european parliament and those of the united states. the dialogue between parliamentarians from both sides is an important pillar of eu-us relations. the commission has continuously sought to involve the legislature more closely in transatlantic relations, in particular by establishing the transatlantic dialogue between legislatures. the representatives of these bodies could further strengthen their position by organising the tld annual meetings immediately before the eu-us summits, as is the case with the transatlantic economic dialogue. as always, the commission has tried this year to persuade our american hosts to involve the legislature in the events on the sidelines of the summit. as far as i know, the united states is currently planning to invite the tld representatives to a briefing of the group of senior officials from the european union and the united states in the afternoon after the summit. we intend that the new political agreement to promote economic relations on both sides will each have a political figure in charge of the process of the summit between the united states and the european union. we propose to the united states that these so-called contact points be advised by a small informal group of selected personalities from the legislative bodies, business and consumer associations. our common objectives for the development and use of clean energy in the medium term include, but are not limited to, the following areas: promotion of largely emission-free coal use; development and use of renewable energy sources, in particular biofuels; promotion of energy efficiency. in each of these areas we will endeavour to set targets which are qualifiable for both the european union and the united states. the eu will work on the basis of the solid political platform agreed at the european council on 9 may. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the visa regime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states. we have to wait for the final text. this could be passed by the us congress before the summer. only then will the commission be able to assess whether the new programme represents progress towards greater reciprocity between the eu and the united states. our position was clear from the outset: all eu citizens should be able to enter the united states without a visa, just as us citizens already have the right to enter the european union without a visa. we have repeatedly raised this issue with the united states at all levels and have called for visa-free travel to be extended to all eu member states, thus ensuring equal treatment for all eu citizens. the negotiations on passenger data started in washington on 26 february. we are expected to complete them by the end of july, i.e. by the end of the current passenger name record agreement. last week, further constructive talks were held with the united states. vice-president frattini could give you details on this. we intend to provide similar security measures for swift to ensure that the privacy of european citizens in the united states is adequately protected. we continue to work with the us to agree on a set of general data protection principles in the long term. the dialogue at expert level has been successful so far. but we have not yet progressed to the point where we can negotiate a formal agreement. the question of the missile shield was also raised. i agree with what javier solana said to parliament on 29 march on this subject, that the eu is not a defence alliance and that the member states have jurisdiction in this area under the treaties. this does not mean, however, that the eu is completely unaffected by this issue. given that the eu has a common foreign and security policy and a common security and defence policy, and that there are potential implications for issues of common interest such as eu-russia relations, it seems to me important that an opportunity is found to have a debate on this at eu level. the question of bawag is an interesting one, but the commission has no information to date that bawag has actually implemented such measures. if bawag had taken a decision in this respect, the commission should have been informed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the facts are still unclear, but in general the european union rules do not allow such measures and such extraterritoriality. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i am quite sure - and this was clearly expressed in the debate - that the relations and the commonalities between the united states and the european union are of great importance and that there are no relations more important to europe. there is hardly any important issue in which europe and the united states are not involved together. that is to say - and this has been made clear - that we should be on an equal footing with the united states and have a really rational dialogue, but without losing sight of our common european values.
the beginning of the german eu presidency was marked by merkel's visit to the us with the aim, at a time of great difficulties and increasing isolation of the bush administration, of renewing her proposal for an eu-germany-us strategic partnership for shared global leadership. in the context of the rivalry and concertation between the major european capitalist powers - with germany at the head - and the usa, the present moment may be characterized by an attempt to revive the so-called transatlantic relations. the us-eu summit, scheduled for 30 april, will be the corollary of efforts to overcome differences and secondary contradictions and to realign agendas on both sides of the north atlantic, whether in the political, economic or military spheres. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. these efforts - led by merkel and her right-wing/social democratic coalition government - are taking place at a time when the us is strengthening its military apparatus in europe, with the creation of new military bases and the intention to install anti-missile systems, which pose new threats to peace. imperialist movements...
in writing. this association agreement is linked to the single european sky initiative, which is already under way. one of its central aspects - which has been consistently pursued in this type of agreement - is the progressive liberalisation of transport between the contracting parties and the euphemistic adjustment of state monopolies. we therefore reaffirm the principle that it should be for each state to decide how to organise and what conditions must be respected in the provision of air transport services, including that it should be the state itself which provides this service in the first place. we also reaffirm that the principle which should govern and guide all actions to be taken within the framework of these agreements is that of cooperation, with respect for the sovereignty of each state, including in the management of its airspace. the liberalisation of air transport has led to setbacks in the quality of service provision and attacks on the rights of workers in this strategic sector. at the same time, liberalisation has served the interests of the large international operators by concentrating the sector to the detriment of smaller operators. finally, it refers to the incomprehensible involvement of the united nations interim administration for kosovo in this agreement.
in writing. the strengthening of common rules on aviation safety is a key objective of transport policy. terrorist threats must be dealt with with precision and clear objectives. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the report by mr glinne. the effectiveness, clarity and coherence of european provisions must therefore be our main objectives. even if there are a number of important issues to be resolved, such as the sharing of the costs of aviation safety, the more restrictive measures applied by one or more states or the transport of liquids on board, we must not, in order to resolve them, depart from the main objective of ensuring the safety of citizens, even if this sometimes comes at the expense of the comfort and timeliness of air transport services. it is therefore our duty to strike a balance between these two factors - safety and quality of air transport. however, what good is a quality transport if it does not meet stringent safety standards?
in writing. the objective of this directive is to establish a legislative framework for the assessment and management of flood risks, with a view to ensuring the protection of human health, the environment, cultural heritage and economic activities. a three-step approach is therefore proposed: flood risk assessment to identify areas at risk; flood risk maps; and flood risk management plans for river basins. without calling into question the principles and objectives of the proposal for a directive, the question is why a similar instrument has not been created to deal with the problem of drought, which affects millions of people in the eu every year and has particularly serious repercussions on the agricultural sector and the water supply to the population. this failure is all the more serious as it is known that there is a recommendation of this european parliament in its resolution of 18 may 2006 on natural disasters, which, among other things, calls on the commission to present a strategy on drought, which will make it possible to develop a european policy for the prevention and management of drought risks, including strategies to minimise their impacts. so while we voted in favour of this report, we regret this failure and insist on a drought strategy.
in writing. community action on climate change issues is of the greatest importance for the future. and that is why i believe that the measures taken by the community institutions and the member states cannot be individual measures, concentrating on one part of the phenomena and forgetting the others. i cannot therefore fail to call for joint action on climate change. in voting on flood risk assessment and management we are, as we all know, forgetting that floods go hand in hand with other phenomena such as drought or fires.
in writing. we reject the legal basis used by the commission for this proposal on criminal measures to ensure respect for intellectual property rights and we regret that our proposal for rejection was not adopted. the european commission has put forward a proposal for a directive based on a judgment of the court of justice on the environment, which is also the subject of some questions, which provides for criminal measures to be taken by the member states in cases of infringement of intellectual property rights. the criminal law is the exclusive competence of the member states. we therefore consider that the commission has no competence to submit legislative texts on this matter. we regret that most of our proposals were not adopted, which were intended to prevent the most negative aspects of the european commission's proposal, although there are some positive points in the report which the majority approved, but the overall balance is negative. we also consider it unacceptable that private individuals should be allowed to participate in criminal investigations, as the commission proposes. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. since the end of 1999, european policy on maritime safety has been at the top of the european political agenda. the successive disasters (erika in 1999 and prestige in 2002) have tragically shown how weak european policy and member states' strategies in the event of a shipwreck were. i believe that this report guarantees an increase in the safety and efficiency of maritime traffic in general. in terms of the implications for the fisheries sector, this report seems to me to be balanced and guarantees the protection of smaller fishing vessels which do not appear to be obliged to install the ais system. this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. we consider the proposal to set up a system for monitoring and reporting on vessel traffic with a view to preventing accidents and improving maritime safety to be generally positive. however, we cannot agree with some of the amendments proposed to refer to an (pseudo) independent authority - which will not be, in the face of a conflict of interest situation, see the prestige case - the decision on the reception of ships in distress, including the designation of shelter ports. this is a responsibility of each member state. the national authorities of each state are responsible for managing the exclusive economic zones under its sovereignty. it is up to the member states to ensure the management of their marine resources. we therefore propose that any initiatives in the field of maritime safety at community level should be based on the principle that those initiatives which we consider to be relevant and necessary should be taken within the framework of cooperation between states without encroaching on their sovereign powers.
in writing. in general, we welcome this proposal on the liability of passenger shipping companies. a proposal which is essentially aimed at safeguarding the rights of passengers on this type of transport, similar to what already exists for air transport. for example, the current proposal introduces the obligation for carriers to have insurance that can be triggered in the event of an accident, and also extends the limit of liability of carriers, in particular as regards the limits of financial compensation to be awarded to passengers in the event of an accident. however, we are less pleased that in today's vote inland waterway transport has been removed from the scope of this regulation. we believe that the need to create such an instrument is also linked to the gradual lowering of safety standards, which in turn results from the elimination or reduction of state-owned carriers and the emergence of private operators. private operators who often fail to meet the standards for the quality and working conditions of their professionals - as is the case with the increasing use of precarious employment contracts. the first step in ensuring that passengers' safety is respected is therefore to ensure that workers' rights are respected.
in writing. the commission's proposal on the natural resources strategy is too narrow, as the rapporteur, kartika liotard, a member of our group of the european united left/nordic green left, has pointed out, and she has sought to extend its scope further in her proposals. it is essential goods, such as water, trees, soil, oil, that are not only vital elements of our economy but also of our very existence. we therefore consider it important that your report was adopted in support of sustainable economic development, combined with a fair and equitable sharing of the benefits of natural resources, access to resources and markets, in order to alleviate poverty and enhance people's well-being, even though we regret that not all the proposals you made, which we supported, were included in the final resolution. it is good that the prospects of re-use have been included alongside recycling and that the commission has been asked to promote technologies that focus on durable, repairable, reusable and recyclable products, as has the defence of the principle of proximity in all legislation.
in writing. the resolution on transatlantic relations - co-signed by the right and the social democrats and today approved by the majority of the ep - is a good element to take the pulse of eu-us relations. the ep majority sets out the agenda and priorities, highlighting:- the welcome for an improved climate of eu-us relations on an equal footing and the expressed desire for a shared responsibility in global governance;- the strengthening of the transatlantic market, pointing to the liberalisation of financial services as a key issue and calling for regulatory convergence and a level playing field, recalling the multilateral investment agreement; - the affirmation of the broad prospects for close cooperation with the western balkans, the south caucasus region, central asia, the middle east, afghanistan, the mediterranean, latin america and africa; - the strengthening of cooperation in the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as the greatest security challenge for both partners, nato being a transatlantic forum for political debate in a true partnership between equals. the agenda expresses the ambitions of the major european capitalist powers, particularly germany, vis-à-vis the united states.
in writing. as the resolution points out, transatlantic relations have improved substantially in recent years, thus returning to the quality they are expected to have, although they obviously can never be, or even are intended to be, free from problems and difficulties. you need to invest in this good relationship. we look around us, to the old world of the 1970s, 80s and 90s, or to the new world that has emerged with the fall of the berlin wall and with globalization, and in all these different moments we realize that the united states remains our main ally, our best partner, our partner in this endeavor to make the world a freer and more developed place. the importance of the alliance with the united states of america is inescapable, incomparable and cannot be called into question by political views which today, as yesterday, basically consider the united states to be the problem and not a fundamental part of the equation of peace, prosperity, democracy and freedom. in a broader context, i also agree with the epp leader's call for a large transatlantic market by 2015 and the need for parliaments on both sides of the atlantic to be more involved in translating this desire into legislation.
in writing. after being at the forefront of the disintegration of yugoslavia - remember germany's role in the recognition of croatia, after the brutal military aggression of nato, in which war returned to the european continent after world war ii - after years of military occupation of the eu/nato in the balkans, the eu (its great powers) is eager to move to a new phase of domination, absorbing politically and economically the countries of this strategic region through their "integration". the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu's institutions are not left to the mercy of the political parties. - the continuing insistence on adopting the acquis communautaire, i.e. the neoliberal 'open and competitive market' framework - conditioning an autonomous national development project on the interests of the great powers and their large financial/economic groups - with the implementation of 'reforms' by croatia, such as opening up to 'strong private investment' and 'selling of minority and majority state holdings in companies'; this shows that, in the past as now, the interests of the workers and the peoples of this region are not what move the eu.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the world economy. 5,186 convicts await the day when they will cross the death row without a way back. on 19 april, the families of five bulgarian nurses were in parliament denouncing the obscure trial by which the libyan authorities had sentenced them to death. and when we discussed our relations with the united states this morning, there were far more references to common values than criticism of the fact that the death penalty is still in force in 38 states of that federation. in more than 100 countries, the death penalty still exists, and in several of those that have abolished it, there are those who call for its reintroduction. populism, authoritarianism and the lawless war on terrorism are plunging our societies into a security frenzy. the european initiative to apply a universal moratorium is not just a step towards abolition. in these days, it is a sign of hope against this strong and heavy trend.
it was in the heart of europe, in old königsberg, that the philosopher immanuel kant enunciated the most universal principle of justice, man is an end in himself. the european union was founded and grew up on a culture of rights, based on the view that each individual is unique and unrepeatable. it is this perspective which marks the european project, a character which is at once political and moral. today, more than ever, europe's destiny is defined by its ability to take the lead in the fight for rights in the world. europe is, in this sense, the depository of immense hope. the frontiers we have yet to cross are precisely those which separate barbarism from civilization. the european union, true to its enlightenment ideology, cannot give in to the temptations of strategic interests and real politics. we must admit that europe really has to fill the void left by other democratic powers in the fight for human rights. for that, it needs political integration, decision-making capacity, and a cosmopolitan law. it needs a constitution, with human rights as a cross-cutting theme to all measures and defended on all fronts. it is good to remember that fundamental rights are not only violated in the shadows of underdevelopment and dictatorships. democracies that claim to be advanced practice the death penalty in front of our silence. and here the european union cannot have two weights and two measures. in these days of summits between the european union and the united states, it would be good if the death penalty were to be placed on the political agenda, it would be good if the european parliament's resolution on the death penalty gained ground and ceased to be a loose chimera. because one thing is certain, the diagnosis of the big problems that threaten us has an answer in the human rights evidence. there is no dialogue between peoples, no end to conflict, no security, no freedom, except in a more just world.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i start by agreeing with my colleagues, mr díaz de mera and mr castiglione, who have praised the work of the rapporteur, mr deprez, who, as we are used to, has produced an excellent report and has made a remarkable effort to secure a compromise between all the political groups and the council with a view to obtaining an agreement at first reading. this initiative is very welcome at a time when europe is going through the most important migration crisis in its history. the massive influx of illegal immigrants to european shores has made urgent action a priority. although the regions most directly affected are those in southern europe, we cannot regard this problem as being exclusive to those member states or regions. mass irregular immigration, the humanitarian tragedy it represents, has consequences for the security and cohesion of the whole of community europe. i welcome the various operational measures relating to the management of the southern external maritime borders, such as the establishment of an operational command centre to coordinate a network of patrolling the mediterranean coasts, the creation of a central register of available technical equipment to be used for control and surveillance at the external borders, providing the necessary means (boats, helicopters, aircraft, etc.) to be used in joint operations, and i welcome the creation of rapid border intervention teams, the rapid teams, which i very much appreciate, which will provide rapid assistance at technical and operational level to member states who request it. this will increase solidarity and mutual assistance between member states. this regulation concerns the deployment of rapid intervention teams at the borders to enable rapid assistance to be provided in situations similar to those which have occurred, for example, in the canary islands. consent to be given for a limited period of time or in exceptional and urgent situations and following a request by the member state concerned. mr president, the european agency frontex should play a crucial role in coordinating this assistance. you must do so quickly and effectively. a decision is expected within five days and an operational plan is to be drawn up, which should specify the duration, geographical location, mission to be carried out, composition, number and profile of experts that each member state should make available to join the team. we all - parliament, the commission and the council - have to ensure that the necessary means are available at institutional, human and financial level to enable it to carry out its task effectively.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, at a time when the 33rd anniversary of the april revolution is being celebrated in my country - portugal - it is a particular pleasure to be here discussing the strengthening of legislation in the field of information and consultation of workers. we know that the directives on the right of workers to information and consultation and on the european works councils provide for some information, particularly on the development of the economic and social aspects of the company and on decisions which lead to substantial changes in the organization of work or in employment contracts. but practice shows that it is not only insufficient, it fails to respond to the growing and serious problems of restructuring and relocation of companies, with serious economic and social repercussions. the situation which workers in a wide range of companies - from hightechnology companies such as alcatel-lucent, delphi and yasak, to footwear companies such as rodhe, the car industry, textiles and many others - are continually bringing to our attention calls for much more community legislation. it is necessary to ensure that workers' structures are fully informed and have a decisive role to play in the whole process, particularly in the european works councils, including the right of veto. we must prevent the promotion of flexibility and insecurity through the liberalization of dismissals and an unacceptable attack on the rights that workers have won over the years. i hope the commissioner will answer the questions that have been raised.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. since then, other directives have been adopted covering areas such as workers' health, the organisation of health services at work, working conditions, the protection of young workers and temporary workers, on board ship assistance, giving expression to the ilo conventions. although almost all these and other directives require member states to send the commission a report on their practical implementation and the views of the social partners, the fact is that some member states have not submitted their reports. the proposal now under discussion is expected to give greater attention to the effective application of these directives and to working conditions, in an attempt to help reduce the millions of accidents per year, thousands of deaths and permanent disabilities in all the countries of the european union. as is now well known, the preparation of reports on practical application by the member states is provided for in several separate directives, but with different frequency: some every four years, others every five years and others there is no obligation. the commission now proposes, as we heard from the commissioner, that a single report be drawn up every five years. the proposal for a single report every five years must not be allowed to undermine or undervalue the specific aspects of each directive, which is what this report seeks to address, if it is to meet the needs of safeguarding health and safety at the workplace. we have therefore put forward a number of proposals, notably those which concern the structure of the report itself, which should be accompanied by a specific questionnaire in its content. thus, this single report should include a general part covering the principles and common aspects applicable to all directives and other specific chapters on the implementation of each of the particular aspects of each directive, with the inclusion of specific indicators where available. the five-yearly report shall assess the practical implementation of the different directives and, where appropriate and available, provide gender-discriminated data on equality between men and women. it shall also include relevant information on the prevention efforts undertaken by member states in order to allow an adequate assessment of how the legislation works in practice. we insist that a policy of genuine improvement in the practices of the various member states is required. but it is also urgent that the commission should present an in-depth report on the situation in the member states in the various areas of workers' health and safety at the workplace. finally, i would like to emphasize the close collaboration that has been possible with the members from the various political groups in the committee on employment and social affairs, as well as with the executive committee and the council, which will certainly enable us to obtain agreement at first reading. i thank you all for the work you have done.
mr president, in this european year of equal opportunities, which we hope will be for all, this report is of particular importance because it draws attention to those who are particularly vulnerable to multiple discrimination: women with disabilities. i therefore commend the rapporteur for her work and hope that the european commission and the member states will take due account of the proposals contained here. we know that people with disabilities and their families in general face increased difficulties in their daily lives and need support and measures which take account of the specificities of their situation so that they can be fully integrated into the various activities of society. it is therefore necessary to mainstream the needs of persons with disabilities and the rights of women in all policies at national, regional and local level, in particular in urban planning, education and training, employment, housing, transport, health and social services policies, including personalised support where the situation warrants it. this implies strong public policies, with significant investment in areas that are particularly sensitive, to ensure equal opportunities for women and people with disabilities, which requires changes in policy priorities. we cannot continue to give priority to the nominal convergence criteria of the stability pact and, on that basis, continue to cut public investment, as has happened in portugal, and to close maternity hospitals, emergency services, health services and schools, thus undermining the rights of people, especially the most vulnerable, such as women and people with disabilities. it is not enough to proclaim that we want equal opportunities for all, launch a propaganda campaign and then practise neoliberal policies that exacerbate inequalities and social injustices. more than proclamations, we need policy changes to prioritize social justice and real policies of social inclusion and equal opportunity for all and for all.
in writing. the health of workers and working conditions, the organisation of health services, hygiene and safety at work and the list of occupational diseases themselves were given some prominence in community affairs in 1989 with the publication of framework directive 89/391. since then, other directives have been adopted covering various areas of health and safety at work. the adoption of this report is expected to bring greater attention to the effective application of these directives and to working conditions, in an attempt to help reduce the more than four million annual work accidents and more than four and a half thousand deaths and permanent disabilities in the countries of the european union as a whole. we insist that a policy of genuine improvement in the practices of the various member states is required. it is urgent that the commission should present an in-depth report on the situation in the areas of the safety and health of workers at work and that the ilo conventions and other legislation in these areas should be applied.
in writing. we are pleased that the report adopted today incorporates all the proposals put forward by the cfp which were already included in the report drawn up by us for the opinion of the committee on regional development of the european parliament. in view of their importance, we would like to highlight the following proposals put forward by the cfp in the ep, in particular the increase in the financial envelope: - the increase of the annual financial envelope of the present scheme by eur 2 million, from eur 15 million to eur 17 million, of which eur 570 000 is for the azores and madeira; - the elimination of the limit of 75% for the compensation of transport and other related costs, ensuring full coverage (100%) of these for the european continent and for the local markets of the outermost regions; - the elimination of the lapse clause, making the compensation scheme permanent, with a five-year review; - the maintenance of the possibility for the local processing industry to use fish caught by community vessels, when the possibilities of supply by local fleets have been exhausted; - the positive differentiation of small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing; - the eligibility of internal transport from each outermost region, to deal with the problem of geographical dispersion, which is the case with the azores.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the duarte freitas report for the following reasons: 1° because the very specific situation of the fisheries sector in the outermost regions (orr) is taken into account, particularly as regards compensation for the additional costs incurred by the economic operators involved in fishing. 2° because the proposed permanent nature of the compensation scheme is consistent with the permanent nature of the constraints inherent in the fisheries sector in the oct. 3° because it proposes the possibility of supplementing the community compensation scheme with national aid. 4° because it provides for greater flexibility in the financial management of the scheme by allowing, within the overall financial limit, variations in the funds allocated to each region or member state. 5° because it proposes an increase of eur 15 to 17 million in the financial resources which will each year finance the compensation scheme over the period 2007-2013. in short, while the european commission's proposal was already positive, the european parliament's proposals substantially improve it, giving full satisfaction to the need to compensate for the additional costs of fishing in madeira and the azores, which will now have an annual financial envelope of eur 5 million for this purpose.
in writing. the completion of the internal market and the progressive removal of trade barriers have greatly benefited the strengthening of economies of scale in the outermost regions. however, the natural barriers to trade which persist in these regions weaken the position of the companies located there compared with those which fully benefit from access to the community market. the specific geographical and structural conditions of the outermost regions justify our measures to compensate for the extra costs of the outflow of products, particularly fishery products, from the outermost regions to the community mainland market. the renewal of the compensation scheme for the azores, madeira, the canary islands and the french departments of guiana and réunion for the period 2007 to 2013 therefore means that we must finally adopt a specific strategy for aid to the development of these regions, particularly in the fisheries sector, through a strengthened partnership. it should therefore be a permanent scheme, with some flexibility being possible, given the special conditions of these regions and in order to optimise its use. it is therefore essential that we give our support in solidarity to these measures.
in writing. the regional advisory councils (racs) were established following the cfp reform adopted in 2002. council decision 2004/585/ec establishes a general framework for the functioning of the jrc in order to ensure a coherent and balanced approach between them. the commission proposal, which is fully supported by the ep rapporteur, aims to provide the regional advisory councils (racs) with a more solid basis for their functioning by improving the conditions for their financing. the amendments introduced are intended to ensure that the community contribution is not decreasing, as originally envisaged. this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. we support this report, which improves the operating conditions of the regional advisory councils (racs), given that their inclusion in the budget means that the community contribution is no longer necessarily decreasing and that they are now subject to a single accounting method. however, the central issue that needs to be addressed is the long-term financial viability of the jrc. as these are an integral part of the common fisheries policy, community funding for their normal operation must be ensured on a permanent basis. this report applies to financing and not to other aspects of the council decision, in particular the number, composition and functioning of the racs which will be the subject of another decision revising decision 2004/585/ec. however, it is currently difficult to assess the rccs, as only 4 (out of 7) are operational. however, our support for this proposal is based on a view of the cfp as an instrument to promote the decentralisation of the common fisheries policy and to ensure the participation of fishermen and their representative organisations in the decision-making process of the cfp - which we believe is not being fully ensured - while also ensuring a pluralist and fair representation of fisheries interests among the member states.
in writing. we condemn the creation at eu level of so-called rapid intervention teams at the borders of the various countries, which is an expression of the increasingly repressive and militaristic nature of the eu. this measure is part of the current security drift and the policy of criminalizing immigration, which is a disregard for human dignity and fundamental rights. the rapid intervention teams, the walls, the immigration detention centres are instruments for the construction of a fortress europe, which we reject outright! one of the arguments to try to justify this measure is the fight against illegal immigration. the main component of the advanced policy is repression, it is stressed, while the real causes of immigration, poverty, hunger, war, the absence of a dignified life prospect for millions and millions of human beings - including portuguese - caused by capitalist exploitation and the brutal centralization of wealth are hidden. on the other hand, since the protection of its borders is one of the core competences of a state, we consider that this proposal - despite some safeguards - represents a further step towards the future creation of a european coastguard, which, if it were to come into being, would constitute an attack on national sovereignty. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the external borders. the european union as a whole is also defined by its borders. in this context, it is clear that the external borders of the union are at the same time territories under the exclusive sovereignty of their respective member states, but they are also territories whose integrity, surveillance and protection are of interest to all, since problems arising there can hardly be considered as not affecting the other member states. think, first of all, of illegal immigration. but think also of illicit trafficking or, in another context, but for which this reasoning is equally valid, environmental threats. the sharing of the disproportionate burdens that the states with the most vulnerable external borders have to bear for geographical reasons is of the greatest justice and importance. this cooperation, while being based on the principle of solidarity between the eu member states, is above all the result of the need to ensure the greatest possible effectiveness in border protection. defending them is not to be confused with protectionism or isolationism, but only with respect for the rules.
in writing. in june 2006, following the political agreement reached in the council on the new european fisheries fund, it was decided to amend two provisions of the basic regulation revising the fisheries policy (2371/2002) concerning the management of fishing capacity of the fleet. the aim of the amendment is to allow some fleet adaptations to improve safety, working and hygiene conditions, the quality of products on board vessels and energy efficiency. the amendments will give member states the possibility to increase the tonnage of their vessels to a limited extent, thus improving safety, working conditions and hygiene, the quality of products on board the vessel and energy efficiency. this report deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. the amendment is to amend articles 11 and 13 of regulation no 2371/2002, which is the main instrument for the revision of the 2002 common fisheries policy. one of the conditions introduced by the european fisheries fund (eff) was to call into question the community aid for the modernisation and renewal of fleets, which was already provided for in the previous financial instrument. the current proposal, dated june 2006, after the eff, aims to allow, on a limited basis, aid for the modernisation of the fleet for the purpose of safety and improvement of working conditions and hygiene, as well as energy efficiency, by allowing the reuse of 4% of the withdrawn tonnage, at public expense, for this purpose, while determining that the power reduction related to the replacement of engines cannot be restored with public aid. despite our reservations about the commission's proposal, we shall vote in favour of the rapporteur's two proposals which guarantee: - 10% of the tonnage withdrawn may be used for modernisation purposes, which, if limited, will make it possible to ensure, for example, the modernisation of small-scale coastal fishing vessels (less than 12 metres), so that they are given priority;
in writing. the galileo programme (european radio-navigation and satellite positioning programme) could be an important instrument which, by ensuring the provision of a public service, will represent an opportunity for cooperation, scientific and technical progress and the exchange and accessibility of information. the project should be based on a public investment and control strategy and solutions should be found to ensure its financing, in particular in the framework of international cooperation. the galileo system is being looked at with interest by countries such as china or india, which could be important partners in this project, contributing to the end of the gps monopoly and creating, as an alternative, a project based on broad international cooperation. we believe that equal access for all users should be ensured and that the public should be able to use the information available free of charge. however, it must be reaffirmed that such a project must fully guarantee the rights, guarantees and freedoms of citizens and their non-use for military purposes - the rejection of the militarization of space or its use for military purposes - and/or security dynamics, contrary to what is currently envisaged.
in writing. the galileo programme is undoubtedly one of the cornerstones of the lisbon strategy, given its technological scope and the expected future added value, not only in terms of employment but also in terms of technological advances. the economic growth that the programme's potential enables us to foresee is of the utmost importance to the european economy, and we have a responsibility to ensure that the conditions for its realisation are created with the necessary clarity, efficiency and speed. i therefore share the concern of my colleagues that the negotiations on the concession contract have been at an impasse for several months now, as these delays will have significant consequences for the overall cost of the project. i believe it is essential at this stage to make every effort to ensure that the commission presents to the council in june this year a clear and credible road map, solutions to future financial obligations and alternative scenarios for the implementation of the programme. the council will thus have the information it needs to ensure that this process continues, so that it can make up for the delays it has suffered. that is why i support this resolution.
in writing. once again, the majority in the ep is drawing up a report on human rights in the world, which, although it contains aspects with which we agree, is characterised, fundamentally and in general terms, by a manipulative and reductive view of human rights - political, social, economic and cultural - using them as an instrument of interference and political pressure on some states, always in accordance with the interests and contextual conveniences of the eu. a strategy for the use of human rights which involves an attempt to use the un human rights council to isolate countries which do not submit to the dictates of imperialism. as we have been saying, this is an exercise in profound hypocrisy, in which the so-called friendly countries are protected and the others, those targeted by the us and the eu, are criticized. a practice with which we cannot agree! the report therefore completely omits israel, once again, and in fact whitewashes israel's brutal policy of aggression and occupation of palestine, which systematically violates international law and disrespects the inalienable right of the palestinian people to their own sovereign, independent and viable state.
in writing. among the various aspects which the report in question touches upon, there is one point which i think should be repeated exhaustively. i refer to point 10: 'reiterates that in their future annual reports on human rights, the council and the commission should examine the different ways in which human rights are dealt with in other community policies, such as the common foreign and security policy, development, trade, immigration and other relevant policies, which fall within the eu's external relations framework (...) '; the eu's role in the world - and in particular in its immediate neighbourhood - lies in its ability to use its soft power to increase universal respect for human rights. on the other hand, it is time to look seriously at the enormous threat to this purpose of expanding human rights which results from the strategy of international cooperation and aid from china, an emerging power in this field. it is time to rethink the strategy we use, to ensure that we are pursuing the most effective path and in line with the values we stand for and want to promote.
in writing. as we have said before, we support the initiative to submit to the un general assembly a motion for a resolution calling for a universal moratorium on the death penalty, which, as we have seen, already has the support of some 88 countries. the abolition of the death penalty is an aspiration of millions of men and women around the world and of an increasing number of countries which have abolished it in their domestic legal order or have established a moratorium on its application. we consider that this step represents a civilizational gain which it would be important to extend to other countries. this initiative can help to do so.
in writing. if there are causes - and there are - to which we can and must adhere without hesitation, this is one of them. the reasons are not without explanation. a society that does not regard life as the highest value, the standard, the criterion, the limit, will always be a society capable of the greatest atrocities. i am not surprised, therefore, that bloodthirsty states shamelessly kill their opponents. but i believe we have a duty, and perhaps even the ability, to stop them. i am more surprised by the democratic states which apply it, as if they suffered from a sudden lack of criteria or values. this is not the place for another discussion, but i want to say that it strikes me that you refuse to accept the death of an adult citizen, even if he is possibly guilty of a heinous crime, but you consider that the life of an unborn baby is either not life or does not deserve to be protected. i would therefore conclude by saying that this eu commitment deserves my support. it also hoped that the member states - and the eu as such - would follow through on this declaration.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution because of its overall value in defending human rights in the various countries of the european union, although we have some specific criticisms regarding the wording of some of the articles. but it is unacceptable that practices of homophobia and any discrimination based on sexual orientation continue to be encouraged. we therefore also support the european commission's insistence on an anti-discrimination package, based on article 13 of the treaty on european union, aimed at ending discrimination in a wide range of areas, including on grounds of sexual orientation. we are in favour of a set of measures to promote equal rights and equal opportunities for all, and not just formal declarations without legislative or budgetary content. we also support the call for the practical implementation of existing legislation in these areas to be accelerated in the defence and promotion of fundamental human rights, and we reject discriminatory remarks, in particular those made by political leaders, against homosexuals, as they generally incite hatred and violence.
in writing. the annual reports of the european parliament on public finances always present the same recipe, regardless of the economic moment - the implementation of the stability pact - one of the greatest constraints to economic and social development in the european union and in the less developed member states with economic difficulties, such as portugal. the report is clear about the objective - to use 'economic recovery to cut budget deficits and make labour markets more competitive' - i.e. to cut back on the social functions of the state and deregulate the labour market, particularly in terms of wages and safety for public sector workers. in this report, the priority objective is no longer zero deficit but budget surplus. the rapporteur is of course not happy with the pseudo-revision of the pact in 2005, when it became clear that the pact was unreasonable in the face of the economic recession in the eu. but as you know, this is a political pact, the fruit of the reigning neoliberal ideology, so the economic justification is only an alibi. this has been our position since 1997 and we have advocated the repeal of the stability pact ever since. that is why we are voting against this report.
the catholic archbishop of bulawayo recently denounced the misery and oppression that mugabe in recent years has brought to zimbabwe and even called on the people to take to the streets, facing the weapons of the regime. archbishop pius ncube explained the following: mugabe is mad for power and he will cling to it, even if it means destroying the economy and destroying zimbabwe. mugabe is an evil man, a bully and a murderer. i will not be bullied or bought by him. i accept that it may mean that i lose my life. are these courageous archbishops, opposition leaders and activists for human rights and development in zimbabwe being duly supported by the commission and the council of the european union, including to mobilise the solidarity they need from other africans in the african union and sadc? in the name of a serious debate on africa's problems and positive interaction between europe and africa, will they also be invited and welcomed to lisbon during the eu-africa summit under the portuguese presidency? it is for us to have clear answers that this resolution of the european parliament is important and timely.
i would like to welcome the rapporteur, mr andria, and to highlight his report, which contains aspects which deserve our support. housing policy is a national policy. it is up to the states to guarantee their citizens the right to adequate housing, using the prerogatives at their disposal. the constitution of the portuguese republic, for example, enshrines in article 65 that everyone has the right, for himself and his family, to adequate housing, in conditions of hygiene and comfort, and that preserves personal and family privacy. this right is an essential factor of social integration and inclusion and a sine qua non condition for ensuring that all citizens have a basic need that is fundamental to human development. the housing problem in community regional policy is taking on a new context in a european union of 27. it should be borne in mind that, despite the increasing contribution of the structural funds to urban renewal, in particular through a community initiative of their own, the function of the structural funds is to promote investment of a reproductive nature by promoting positive externalities for economic development, such as investment in basic infrastructure and improving the skills of the labour force. that said, we believe that the structural funds can play a significant role in supporting integrated projects to promote social, public or cooperative housing, whether for purchase or for lease at controlled costs, with controlled social facilities for urban renewal, social cohesion and the promotion of sustainable urban development, and therefore, once again, the question of increasing the funds in the community budget for cohesion policy is reaffirmed as necessary, in addition to the mobilisation of other financial instruments such as the european investment bank.
i should like to begin by congratulating mr andria on his report. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which everyone is trying to make constitutional and binding in the european union, states in its first article that the dignity of the human being is unviable. this right right rightly includes the right to adequate housing. although the european union, as has already been said, has no direct competence in this area, it has nevertheless an essential role to play. europe, in close cooperation with national, regional and local authorities, must work to eradicate the urban ghettos and the scourge of homelessness that proliferate not only in the big cities but also in small and mediumsized towns. it should therefore encourage the revitalization of city centres, not only in the perspective of historical preservation but also in the perspective of the recovery of the local economy and the dynamisation of urban centres where dozens of abandoned buildings are now proliferating. this vision has evolved and we now believe that the european financial instruments available to member states should allow for public-private partnerships and structured investment in smart homes, where energy efficiency and environmentally friendly construction are key criteria. there is still a lot to be done, but i believe that this own-initiative report, together with the european charter on housing adopted by the urban housing intergroup of this parliament, are two key pieces in this way of approaching housing in the european union that has set them up.
i would first of all like to congratulate mr janowski on the excellent report he has produced. the european union's regional development policy can be crucial in promoting the innovation capacity of regions, particularly the most disadvantaged. in all regions there is a potential for innovation which must be exploited and, in agreement with the rapporteur, it is important to understand innovation in a broad sense, not only that which results from the activity of research centres, universities and companies, but also that which can result, in the context of dynamic societies, from processes of continuous improvement and improvement in which the contributions of each person, each worker, each public official, each entrepreneur can be decisive. only in this way can you increase the productivity levels of an economy, the best mirror to assess the innovation capacity of a region. thus, for regional development policy to have a significant impact on innovation, it must above all contribute to the creation in the regions of an environment and culture favourable to innovation, which favours initiative, entrepreneurship, healthy competition and a taste for risk. and we must recognize that in some regions these are not always the values that are reinforced as a result of the action of the structural funds, where, on the contrary, the risk of creating a culture of subsidy-dependence is very real, a situation which must be avoided at all costs if we really want to encourage innovation in the regions.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. that is to say, the 'awarding of public service contracts' in the context of competition, that is to say, calling into question the concept of public service, in particular as regards the fact that it is provided by public authorities, with respect for the rights of workers and users to a public service of quality and at social prices. the recommendation adopted, although it contains important aspects - such as the possibility for the competent authorities to decide to provide these services themselves or to award them by direct arrangement to an entity over which they exercise control - is part of the policies of liberalization and promotion of privatization and monopolies at the expense of the public purse, depending on the balance of forces in each country. we regret that our proposals to safeguard the rights of workers in the sector, such as the inclusion in contracts of provisions on the protection of employment in the event of a change of operator, have been rejected.
in writing. the report on public service obligations voted on today leaves us in the expectation of a positive conclusion, at second reading, to a dossier which has been unresolved for decades. the legal uncertainty of the present situation has only contributed to litigation and to the denial of the development of the market for public passenger transport services. we therefore hope that this text will end up establishing transparent conditions for access to the market, without artificial restrictions which only serve to protect the status quo, which is so often bureaucratized and which prevents the provision of better and more efficient public passenger transport services to the population.
in writing. on this subject and in this report i think it is justified to insist on an idea which i have put forward on several occasions. with a view to promoting peace, prosperity, democracy and human rights in our neighbouring countries, both for reasons of direct eu interests and universal values, i consider it desirable that a european project, designed in partnership with our mediterranean neighbours, should create in the medium term an area of free movement in the mediterranean as close as possible to the logic of the eu model, to which surrounding countries that meet the criteria of democracy, market economy and respect for human rights (the essence of the copenhagen criteria) can join. it would be a very strengthened partnership in exchange for reforms. it would, incidentally, and without this being its greatest virtue, be a solution which, if it were in the interests of morocco, israel or tunisia, could perhaps involve turkey if it were to conclude that the accession process was in an insurmountable impasse. having prosperous, democratic neighbours, constrained by the expectation of benefits, with populations who do not need to emigrate at all costs, is a good european project. and it's not even completely new.
in writing. i voted in favour of the filip kaczmarek report (a6-0146/2007) on the horn of africa: a regional eu political partnership for peace, security and development, as i believe it is essential to consolidate the eu's presence in a region torn by three major conflicts, in sudan, ethiopia-eritrea and somalia, and where a significant part of the population, over 22%, lives below the poverty line. the partnership for peace, security and development will only be successful if it adopts a strategic regional approach, involving existing regional organisations such as the african union (au) and the intergovernmental authority on development (igad), together with other international partners, including in the un framework. on the other hand, the international community needs to support the region to make it more able to adapt to the severe impacts of climate change, because although africa is the continent that contributes least to greenhouse gas emissions, it is the continent that will suffer the most from global warming due to its underdevelopment and poverty.
in writing. we believe that the principles which should guide the approach to the complex situation in the horn of africa should be strict respect for international law and the charter of the united nations, the peaceful settlement of international conflicts and de-escalation. any genuine and real solution to the problems facing the peoples and countries of this region must not be part of or promote, even indirectly, the agenda of imperialism for this region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force which is not only a political force but also a political force. instead of interference, outside interference in efforts to resolve conflicts and the militarization of the continent, particularly of this region, diplomatic efforts - which are far from exhausted, as the recent peace agreement between sudan and chad shows - should be promoted to resolve the problems at the root of the current serious situation, namely the unfair distribution of access to the rich natural resources in this region. the urgent humanitarian aid and real development cooperation and support policies must also be ensured.
in writing. nuclear energy has been referred to as one of the lowest carbon forms of energy, with nuclear fission being placed as one of the preferred forms of intervention in the framework of 'climate change', and the importance of savings and efficiency being secondary. however, we believe that energy saving and efficiency, as well as renewable energy, should be at the centre of any energy policy. it is in this field that more public research and investigation should be promoted and developed in order to achieve a genuine energy alternative that meets the needs of the population and the requirements of sustainable development in our society. the increasing liberalization of the energy sector, promoted in the eu in the interests of large multinationals, is putting at risk the right of people to secure energy at affordable prices. as this is a strategic sector for the development of any country, we advocate its maintenance as a public sector and reject its privatisation. we are also concerned about the assumptions in this report that nuclear energy should be promoted, given the dangers - to the environment and to the population, such as the safety of the plant itself and the reactors and the treatment and transport of radioactive waste - associated with the production of this type of energy.
in writing. there are some ideas in the report which i think are fundamental. in particular, it recalls that 'nuclear energy currently provides the european union with 32% of its electricity and is considered by the commission (...) as one of the main co2-free energy sources in europe and the third least expensive energy source', drawing the conclusion that the eu 'must defend, in compliance with the euratom treaty, its industrial and technological leadership in the face of actors who are vigorously relaunching their nuclear activities (russia, usa) and the emergence of new global nuclear players (china and india), future competitors of the european union in the medium term'. i understand and acknowledge that this is an open-ended difficulty and one which provokes negative reactions among the populations, but i believe that nuclear energy should not be excluded from our considerations of the future of energy supply. whether it's because of the costs involved, whether it's because of the environmental impact, whether it's because the technological solutions today are less risky. i believe that diversity and technological innovation are the answer to today's energy challenges and the issues associated with them.
in writing. we welcome the inclusion of our proposals, which underline the importance of social housing and the priority given to tackling the problem of the homeless, in the housing policies of the member states. investment in social housing plays a key role in providing housing for many people who would otherwise not have access to the housing market and are thus hindered in their right to housing. social housing is a way of combating property speculation, ensuring the construction of social facilities and promoting sustainable urban planning and planning. in this respect, support from the structural funds and regional policy can be important. we therefore regret that our proposal to support housing cooperatives was not included. the report also incorrectly advocates the promotion of public-private partnerships, without recognising the important role of the cooperative sector. on the other hand, prioritising the issue of the 'homeless' in housing policies is essential to guarantee all citizens a decent housing, effectively combating this growing form of social exclusion. the question of establishing quality indicators at european level defining the concept of 'adequate housing' should be considered from the top.
in writing. it is a complex task to define a concept as vague as innovation and its contribution to economic development. in this report, as in many other commission and council documents, innovation is presented as a panacea and a new model for growth, confused with technological development. although the report contains proposals with which we agree, it does not depart from or call into question the policy of the neoliberal 'lisbon' strategy, which is to commercialise knowledge, research and education. on the contrary, it defends patents (including community patents), the concentration of research in so-called 'centres of excellence', public-private partnerships and the promiscuity of companies with public research centres and universities. it refers to the 'seventh framework programme' without criticising some of its priorities and the cuts it has suffered in the current financial framework. it suggests the privatisation of regional and local public transport. it also stressed the need to increase the use of the structural funds to finance the lisbon strategy. so we cannot vote for it. finally, we would like to refer - in the light of the proposals we have already put forward - to the need to ensure broadband internet access in the outermost regions, which is mentioned in the report in a mitigated form.
in writing. despite the existence of directives on the right of workers to information and consultation and the european works councils - which provide for some information to be provided to workers, in particular on the evolution of the economic and social aspects of companies and decisions which cause substantial changes in the organization of work or in employment contracts - the cold reality shows that these are either simply not met, or, when they are, do not often ensure the rights of workers - in particular employment - in the continuing processes of relocation, restructuring, mergers and closure of companies, which cause serious economic and social consequences. we have long advocated the need to ensure that workers' structures are fully informed and have a decisive role in these processes, by improving the right to information and to genuine participation in decisions, including the right of veto, such as the possibility of annulling decisions to close companies and the right to suspend dismissals. the commission has also proposed that the community should make aid conditional on investment and on the fulfilment by firms of contractual conditions which guarantee stable and lasting employment and sustained economic development, and that flexibility and liberalization should be rejected.
madam president, i would like to welcome the day of struggle of the portuguese workers and their trade union centre cgtp-in, which will be holding a general strike in portugal on 30 may. the portuguese workers are fighting against rising unemployment, against the increasing precariousness and flexibility of work and the so-called flexicurity, against the devaluation of wages and the brutal growth of inequalities and poverty, for employment with rights, for the defence of collective bargaining, for wage increases and for the fair distribution of the wealth created. portuguese workers are fighting to defend public services, health, education, justice, social security and the public administration that provides them. portuguese workers are fighting against the policies of dismantling the productive apparatus, of breaking public investment and of subordinating the country's economic needs to the growing profits of the large economic and financial groups.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate all those who took part in the conciliation process on life+ and who reached an agreement which we consider very positive, particularly because the european parliament was able to secure a significant increase (+ eur 40 million) on the council's common position. we all stand to gain, especially the european environment. among the measures eligible for life+ i would like to highlight forest monitoring, information and communication actions and, in particular, awareness-raising and training campaigns for those involved in forest fire prevention initiatives. these measures are in fact in line with our concerns expressed in the own-initiative report of the committee on the environment on natural disasters, for which i was rapporteur. another very important aspect is to ensure that at least 50% of the budgetary resources of life+ are used to support projects for the conservation of nature and biodiversity, since in its common position the council had proposed to allocate only 40%, an amount clearly insufficient in view of the requirements of financing the natura 2000 network and the implementation of the habitats directive.
i would like to make three points in relation to this debate: firstly, to welcome the continuation of a specific programme to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women, and to protect victims and groups at risk. it was a demand we supported from the beginning and we consider it very positive that this result has been achieved. the second point is that, although there is an increase in funding compared with previous programmes, i regret that the commission has not fully accepted our proposal for a further increase to take due account of the enlargement of the european union and the serious problems of violence against women, which persist, including sexual exploitation and human trafficking. thirdly, to call on the commission to present as soon as possible the proposal we have agreed on for a new european year to combat violence against women, children and young people.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in the light of the own-initiative reports which parliament has been presenting on the future of the european union's structural policy, which anticipate a fourth report on cohesion and the debate on the community budget for 2008-09, we have reaffirmed our view that regional development policy should be the main instrument for effectively reducing regional disparities and achieving real convergence between the various countries through economic growth and employment. to this end, the redistributive nature of the community budget should be safeguarded and reinforced, and cohesion funding should be increased and not subordinated to any other objectives such as those enshrined in the lisbon strategy. we therefore oppose any attempt to make the allocation of resources under the future cohesion policy conditional on the implementation of national policies for so-called beneficial growth, as set out in this report, because we do not agree that the allocation of funds under cohesion policy is conditional on economic performance criteria established at community level as a supplementary instrument of pressure on the way member states define their economic and social policies, which would mean a double penalty for the economically less developed.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by greeting the rapporteur. europe today needs to clarify how it fits into the globalised economy. as socialists, of which i am the shadow rapporteur, we are unquestionably in favour of the multilateral framework of the world trade organisation. however, the relative stalemate of the doha negotiations has led the commission, like our main partners, to find transitional solutions through bilateral or regional trade agreements. this strategy is clearly a second option and will only be acceptable if the agreements are compatible with the success of the doha negotiations and include minimum environmental and social conditions that are in line with internationally recognised standards such as decent work. however, i would like to stress that the unilateral review of trade defence instruments, as mentioned by the rapporteur, is considered to be clearly inappropriate. in addition, it must be clearly assumed that economically strong partners with a negotiating capacity equivalent to that of the european union must be treated differently from less developed countries or countries with serious development problems. with regard to the former, such as korea, india, brazil, mexico, china and indonesia, it is time for the european union to demand some reciprocity, particularly in terms of market access, respect for intellectual property, trade rules, investment policy and competition. the european citizens are demanding it. however, this reciprocity can never be required in relation to weak or developing countries. on the contrary, the european union has a double responsibility towards them with this strategy and should strengthen the conditions for them to be able to use international trade to accelerate their development process. it is not easy to strike a balance between these various objectives. i hope, however, that a spirit of compromise and sufficient consensus can be found between the various political groups so that the european citizens we represent here feel more secure in the face of the uncertainties of globalisation.
in writing. we voted in favour of this final agreement because it enabled the european parliament to guarantee an increase of eur 40 million on the amount proposed in the council's common position. the budget for life+ is now around €1894 million. in addition, part of the life+ budget is devoted to projects on 'nature and biodiversity'. the ep has ensured that at least 50% of life+ budgetary resources will be used to fund projects supporting nature and biodiversity conservation. in its common position, the council had proposed that 40% of the total budget be devoted to these projects. finally, as mentioned in the final report, at the conciliation committee meeting, commissioner dimas read out a statement that the commission would, before the revision of the financial framework, review the expenditure authorised and planned at national and community level for the management of the natura 2000 networks. this review will be used to adapt community instruments, in particular life+, and to ensure a high level of co-financing. in conclusion, the result is far more satisfactory than any agreement reached at an earlier stage of the legislative process.
in writing. i consider the result of the reconciliation to be very positive, as the centralised approach prevailed, where the commission maintains the management of the programme in order to ensure added value for europe as a whole, equality of criteria and excellence, while reducing secondary costs by setting up entities for management at national level. i would also like to highlight other positive aspects such as the increase of eur 40 million in the general budget and the allocation of 15% of the funds to transnational projects. i therefore vote in favour of the joint text approved by the conciliation committee on life+.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by anne laperrouze (a6-0125/2007) on the proposal for a directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy and amending directive 2000/60/ec because i believe that the european union must continue to play a key role in protecting the environment and also because this proposal aims to protect and promote the quality of the environment in accordance with the principle of sustainable development. measures are needed, following on from the proposed water framework directive, to stop chemical pollution of water, which affects aquatic ecosystems, causes biodiversity loss and leaves humans increasingly exposed.
in writing. this new proposal for a directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy follows on from the water framework directive, adopted in 2000, which sets environmental quality objectives for surface water to be achieved by 2015, but without a formal assessment of the various existing legislation in this area or even an integrated approach to water policy. it is therefore a set of measures which are worthwhile, with some positive aspects and correct references to the need to take account of the scientific and technical data available, the environmental conditions of the different regions and balanced economic and social development, but in a framework of reaffirmation of neo-liberalism, making the proposed measures subject to the 'maintaining of fair conditions of competition in the internal market' and the polluter-pays principle. it also introduces vague concepts such as 'best available techniques' which can be used to make the use of patented technology and equipment compulsory, creating dependency and potentially depriving workers of production resources given the high-tech equipment prices. although the european parliament made some improvements to the commission's text, it rejected most of our group's proposals, and we therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. we abstained in this final vote in view of what has happened in the meantime in this whole process. on the one hand, we disagree with the commission's position, which has proposed a regulation authorising the presence of up to 0.9% of genetically modified organisms in organic products, among other negative aspects. we still consider this unacceptable, especially when it comes to organic farming. tolerating 0.9% of the proposal for gmo contamination means accepting the transgenic contamination of organic products, which will have undeniable consequences for consumers and constitutes a serious and unacceptable threat to the survival of the organic production sector. consumers choose organic products because they are produced in a more sustainable way, without the use of pesticides, and because they are completely free of genetically modified organisms. the introduction of these substances, even in small quantities, is a way of manipulating consumers with serious consequences for the environment and for health in general. but on the other hand, since it was possible to improve the european commission's proposal in the plenary, even though the council has not yet given a positive response or accepted the change in the legal basis, we abstained in the final vote, hoping that some concessions could be made with regard to the proposals that improve the initial position.
in writing. the european community and greenland have long-standing fisheries relations, with the 1985 framework agreement expiring on 31 december 2006. the new protocol, which has been in force since 1 january 2007 for a period of six years, lays down the fishing opportunities for community vessels and the financial contribution, as well as the categories and conditions of fishing activities of community vessels in the greenland eez. the main objective of the new agreement is to maintain and strengthen fisheries relations between the community and the local government of greenland by establishing a framework for partnership and dialogue aimed at improving the sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fishery resources in greenland's fishing areas, in the interests of both parties. portugal has a particular interest in this fisheries sector and is therefore in favour of concluding this new agreement.
in writing. despite our vote in favour of this report - which approves the proposal for a regulation under consideration - we have a reservation on article 3 (2) of the proposed regulation, which allows the commission to consider licence applications from any member state when member states covered by this agreement do not exhaust the fishing opportunities to which they are entitled. we believe that in the event of under-utilisation of fishing opportunities granted to a member state under quotas and licences, the commission should consult the member states concerned on how best to ensure that these fishing opportunities are used optimally, including the possibility of transferring unused fishing opportunities to other member states. however, we believe that this possibility should not call into question the principle of relative stability. in other words, the use of this possibility should not have any consequences for the future allocation of fishing opportunities of the member states under these partnerships. we therefore supported the amendment which clarifies this point.
in writing. in principle, halting biodiversity loss by 2010 is something that needs to be supported and therefore appropriate measures are required. we know that species and ecosystems need space to develop and recover. thus, ecosystem maintenance should become an objective of all eu sectoral and horizontal policies, taking into account the vital importance of healthy ecosystems for prosperity and well-being in the european union and worldwide. so urban and rural development cannot continue to ignore nature to prevent our landscape from being dominated by cement and pollution. biodiversity is a foundation of sustainable development and therefore it is necessary to mainstream biodiversity concerns into all areas of policy-making. while there are contradictions in community policies, member states should take advantage of all the opportunities available under the cap, the cfp, the cohesion and structural funds, life+ and the seventh framework programme to support biodiversity objectives. in addition, it is imperative to give greater attention to financial needs in the 2008-2009 community budget review, during which an assessment of the (insufficiency) and availability of community funding for biodiversity, especially for the natura 2000 network, should be made.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the adamou report because i consider the loss of biodiversity to be a problem of vital importance for the future of the eu and the action plan under discussion will be a key tool in putting into practice the measures needed to halt this phenomenon by 2010, although i believe that the deadline will certainly be very difficult to meet. i agree that the consequences of climate change. ecosystem services and the specific roles of the cap and the cfp should be taken into account given their importance for meeting the targets and ensuring the long-term maintenance of biodiversity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the caspary report because, although it could be improved, i believe that most of the socialist objectives have been achieved: in particular, preference for multilateralism and the conclusion of doha, special treatment for countries with development problems, mutual recognition of standards, respect for social and environmental minimum standards by combating current dumping, protection of intellectual property, the adoption of codes of conduct and good practice by european companies and the increased involvement of the european parliament. i consider it essential that the socialist group takes an active and constructive position in the follow-up of the bilateral negotiations with major emerging economies such as korea, india, china, russia and others, calling for a broad and balanced reciprocity; however, the strengthening of the support agenda for the least developed countries, including the creation of conditions for their positive participation in world trade, requires urgent reinforcement. these aspects, as well as the important negative position on the unilateral review of trade defence instruments, have, in my view, been sufficiently addressed in the final text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the caspary report because, although it could be improved, i believe that most of the socialist objectives have been achieved: in particular, preference for multilateralism and the conclusion of doha, special treatment for countries with development problems, mutual recognition of standards, respect for social and environmental minimum standards by combating current dumping, protection of intellectual property, the adoption of codes of conduct and good practice by european companies and the increased involvement of the european parliament. as the shadow rapporteur for the pse, i consider it essential that the socialist group takes an active and constructive stance in the follow-up of the bilateral negotiations with major emerging economies such as korea, india, china and russia, among others, calling for a broad and balanced reciprocity; however, the strengthening of the support agenda for the least developed countries, including the creation of conditions for their positive participation in world trade, requires urgent reinforcement. these aspects, as well as the important negative position on the unilateral review of the trade defence instruments, were, in my view, sufficiently addressed in the final text and there was an openness on the part of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs to the establishment of commitments, which i would also like to stress.
in writing. free trade and global liberalization are presented here as fallacious panaceas, in partnership with the dogmas of price stability, lower taxes on the exploitation of labour or increased competition. among other things, it states that 'bilateral and regional free trade agreements are a solution', which is not 'ideal', but should be advanced where necessary to 'improve the competitive position of eu exporters in key external markets'. these should be 'wto-compatible, global and ambitious' and 'ensure comprehensive liberalisation of services and investment, going beyond both existing multilateral commitments and those resulting from the wto'. in other words, with the wto negotiations stalled, the order is to move forward when and where it is possible to liberalise trade for the benefit and profit of the large economic and financial groups in the eu. what the report does not mention are the disastrous consequences of capitalist liberalization - with its 'structural reforms', the end of customs duties or the imposition of so-called 'intellectual property rights' - such as the glaring increase in inequalities worldwide, the growing unemployment, precariousness of work and poverty, as well as the harmful consequences for the environment and biodiversity. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. in a global world the concerns raised in this report are of the utmost importance. although i do not agree with some of the positions expressed, i recognize in this list of problems and possible answers an approach which is essentially realistic. and that, i think, is one of the most relevant aspects. the debate on the external competitiveness of the eu or on the eu and the global economy must be based on realism. the illusion that it is possible to close borders, to impose identical rules to ours at all latitudes and longitudes or to ignore the impact of competition on society is a mistake that costs us an unbearably high price. i therefore believe that the strategy should be one which maximises the advantages while minimising the negative effects of this new situation: to bet simultaneously on the avant-garde and on tradition, on the specific and the non-transferable and on what is attracted by the living conditions provided in the european area. the idea, in vogue, that the eurocentric world (or simply european economic and strategic relevance) died with the arrival of the global economy is not a judgment, it is an opinion that facts and political will is shaping the facts can contract.
in writing. i support this report and the adaptation of the european union's trade policies to future challenges. europe's leading position in the world market allows us to create the conditions for change in order to respond to globalisation without sacrificing our interests and our social model. however, increased trade liberalisation must be accompanied by better use of the instruments of defence against unfair trade practices. without wishing to resort to protectionism, which would not mitigate the effects of globalisation, it is essential that europe takes a strong stand on the scrupulous enforcement of its international trade agreements. we cannot accept that our competitors resort to state export aid policies, to artificial devaluations of the currency and to violations of basic environmental rules. it is equally unacceptable that these countries do not respect the rights of workers and even use child and forced labour. the opening up of international trade and the conditions for access to markets must be global and reciprocal. on the other hand, the inclusion of minimum social and environmental standards in our trade agreements must be safeguarded. it must be borne in mind that the european project is based on solidarity, respect for human rights and sustainable development.
madam president, commissioner, as has been said, the european parliament was in palestine earlier this month. it was a time of great tension, but today, two weeks later, the tension is even greater and unfortunately the citizens of the region expect less and less from the european union. despite the different potential for tension, the european parliament has tried to be on the ground. he was there, and today, even though this tension has increased, mr solana is also in the region. we have seen a humanitarian catastrophe, as the commissioner has described it and as she is naturally aware. but we also saw a wall, a wall 852 kilometers long, which, in order to combat violence and keep israelis safe from arab attacks, invades 25% of the territory of the west bank and annexes territories crucial to any peace agreement based on the premises of 1967. a wall that imprisons people inside their own homes, that blocks children from going to school, that prevents farmers from farming their land. a wall that made gaza the largest open-air prison known to man. a prison where the israeli police have determined since the beginning of 2006 that no one enters or leaves, or should i say: nothing enters or leaves! in the face of all this, we all looked puzzled, we all denied any involvement. today, we hope that the eyes and heart of mr solana can transmit some hope to these populations on our behalf. we have sent the message on the spot, we have recognised the government that the quartet has asked for and we are asking here today that this should continue to be the case. i hope that the council and the commission will honour this commitment, that they will comply with the requirements and that they will be available to work with everyone. it must be stated here in black and white what the european union is actually prepared to do. let us show the world once again that peace is only made by reaching out to those in need and eliminating their despair.
the question period is now over (b6-0018/2007). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 30 by mr david martin (h-0301/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: negative effects of eu biofuel targets 83% of the world's palm oil production comes from indonesia and malaysia. in part as a response to the eu's growing demand for biofuels, both indonesia and malaysia are cutting down large areas of forest - in many cases tropical forests with high environmental value - to plant palm trees for palm oil production. is the commission aware that according to a recent un report, 98% of these forests could disappear by 2022? is the commission aware of the consequences of deforestation on local fauna, such as the many orangutans that end up in rehabilitation centres with little hope of release and return to their natural habitat? according to a dutch lobby group, about 50 percent of the land for new plantings is obtained by drying and burning peat-rich land, which releases huge amounts of carbon dioxide. how can the commission reconcile the eu's target of reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 with the possible increase in emissions in indonesia and malaysia (according to the same lobby group, indonesia is the third largest co2 producer in the world)? what are the commission's intentions with regard to the introduction of an eco-label for 'sustainable' palm oils? does the commission intend to examine the possibility of banning the import of biofuels into the eu?
question no 31 by danute budreikaite (h-0303/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: agreement between the eu member states and russia on energy the publication by the commission of the 'energy package' in january 2007 gave new impetus to the efforts of some member states to secure supplies of energy resources from russia by concluding bilateral or trilateral agreements with that country. russia, greece and bulgaria have signed an agreement on an oil pipeline that will connect the red sea to the aegean sea. construction is expected to start at the end of 2007 and be completed in 2011. hungary will build the 'energia azul' gas pipeline from turkey through bulgaria and romania together with the russian company gazprom. this pipeline will follow the eu's planned route for the nabucco pipeline. the new agreement with russia is called the "agreement on the diversification of gas supplies". what is the commission's position on such a diversification of energy supplies, since the supplier is the same 'gazprom'? what is the impact of such agreements on the implementation of the eu's common energy policy?
question no 33 by mr claude moraes (h-0298/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the use of hate speech on the internet what is the commission's view on the proliferation of hate-mongering websites, in particular those promoting and inciting racist, anti-semitic and anti-roma hatred, in some cases including the names and contact details of activists who may thus be targeted? is the commission aware of any parliamentary initiatives in the united kingdom and other countries to address the problem of such websites? does the commission propose any similar initiatives?
question no 34 by glenis willmott (h-0300/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: eu-wide emergency hotline for victims of forced prostitution following pressure from the european parliament in june 2006, the commissioner for justice, freedom and security referred to plans to set up an eu-wide (multilingual) emergency hotline for victims of forced prostitution. the purpose of this hotline would be to provide first aid to victims of trafficking, allowing them to speak to an impartial interlocutor and encouraging them, through this important channel, to seek advice and support. the obstacle to the creation of this line was cited as the difficulty of reaching agreement between all the telephone companies in the then 25 member states. what steps has the commission taken to make this hotline a reality and what progress has been made in getting the telephone companies involved in this project?
madam president, your question is pertinent, but i am merely complying with the rules of procedure. question no 38 is therefore withdrawn, since mr tarabella is not present.
question no 39 by mr marco cappato (h-0289/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: access to communications for disabled people what initiatives is the commission taking or intends to take to facilitate access to communication tools for disabled people, with particular reference to access to the broadband network, sms, video calls at prices suitable for deaf people, subtitling of television broadcasts from public service and political and electoral information broadcasts, and the free adoption of digital signatures?
question no 40 by mr papastamkos (h-0296/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: separation in the electronic telecommunications markets in a recent speech in brussels, commissioner reding argued that the telecommunications sector in the eu must follow the european method of separating infrastructure from services if there is to be real competition in the terrestrial infrastructure sector. as a main instrument for the national legislator it proposes 'legal separation between network infrastructures at service levels'. however, the commissioner does not rule out full operational separation for the electronic telecommunications markets. can the commission elaborate a little more on what it means by the 'european method'? does the greek telecommunications authority fall within the category to which full separation could be applied?
question no 41 by mrs batzeli (h-0310/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: european framework for safer use of mobile phones by children and adolescents the entry into force of the european framework for safer mobile phone use by children and adolescents, adopted on 6 february by the main companies in the sector in the eu, is welcomed as an important first step towards ensuring the protection of minors against certain risks arising from the use of mobile phones; it is even considered that this policy should be integrated into the commission's communication 'towards an eu strategy on the rights of the child' (com (2006) 367 final). what means does the commission consider appropriate for the implementation of this framework at national level in order to ensure its effective implementation and monitoring by parents, teachers and guardians of minors? since this european framework is a code of self-regulation for european companies, how will the commission participate in monitoring its proper application in the member states and evaluating its effectiveness? what are the responsibilities of the national regulatory authorities with regard to the preparation of the national self-regulatory codes by february 2008 at the latest and the supervision of their application? does the commission consider that it is appropriate to adopt a future community legislative initiative binding on member states and companies, since self-regulation alone cannot be sufficient?
question no 43 by mr bernd posselt (h-0288/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation in the vojvodina in recent years, brutal attacks against members of minorities have repeatedly occurred in vojvodina, and serb refugees have been systematically settled in villages whose residents belong to minorities in order to make them majority serb. on the other hand, there were eu funds that did not reach their intended recipients, for example for the training of minority language teachers. can the commission state whether these abuses have been stopped and what overall assessment it makes of developments in vojvodina?
question no 44 by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0290/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: application of the convention on the law of the sea by turkey in its reply to question (e-0802/07), the commission states that the convention on the law of the sea is indeed part of the community acquis, which turkey will be obliged to adopt and apply upon its accession to the european union. however, in its reply to an earlier question (e-4160/06) on the same subject, the commission had stated that it expected turkey to have already adopted and fully implemented the acquis by the time of its accession to the european union. can the commission state why it has changed its position within a period of six months? does turkey have to adopt and apply the convention 'on accession to the european union' or 'must it have adopted and fully implemented the acquis on accession to the european union'? can the commission state the legal basis for its position?
question no 45 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0340/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: political crisis in turkey and prospects for accession in recent days, in the run-up to the election of the president of the republic, turkey has been plunged into a deep political crisis which raises serious doubts about the functioning of democratic institutions. the constitutional court ruled to annul the first round of the elections, a decision that was strongly contested by the government. the prime minister declared that the parliamentary system was blocked, calling for an early election, while the general staff of the army warned that it would intervene to prevent the election of the islamist abdullah gül as president. how does the commission assess the situation described in an applicant country? commissioner olli rehn, responsible for enlargement, said that the armed forces must respect the autonomy of democratic processes, that the european union is based on the principles of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and the independence of political power from military power, and stressed the need to respect these principles, which are a central element of the copenhagen criteria for a country's accession to the eu. does the commission consider that such military intervention is in accordance with the requirements of the community acquis? what could be the consequences for turkey's accession process? can we expect a further reaction from the commission if the situation does not develop in accordance with the democratic principles of the eu?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the clarity with which mr brok has put the issues on the table and the political line he has taken lead me to congratulate him frankly. as a convinced federalist and unwavering defender of the constitution, he puts his finger on the wound and draws the european union's responsibility in today's world. i would like to focus, however, on one point in this report which relates directly to the middle east and its conflict and the european union's inaction in the face of the catastrophic state of affairs, as has emerged this afternoon from the debate on the situation in palestine. the eu's geographical priority for 2007 should be precisely the situation in palestine. so i disagree with your position. the heart of the world's problems and instability is, as is well known, the middle east. so, if we are to live in a more secure, democratic and peaceful world, the european union must take up these challenges as its top priority among the different foreign policy priorities. the defence of the objective in the israeli-palestinian conflict of two states side by side in the region, within the lines defined in 1967, is an urgent matter for the world community and for all of us.
madam president, i support the report by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou, whom i welcome and congratulate. the issue of quality of work is not just a question of workers' rights, that is a reductive view of the issue. the quality of work must be seen as a much broader area, first of all because a high quality working environment is one of the most important factors in increasing productivity and thus enhancing competitiveness. quality of work depends on sound public policies and on the actions of enterprises in different areas, such as access to infrastructure and communication technologies, education, vocational training, lifelong learning, occupational health and safety and access to the labour market. on the part of the companies it will depend on leadership capacity, career prospects and work organisation. in the meantime, i would like to stress one more reason for paying attention to this matter: the reforms that europe needs to undertake at various levels to become competitive with the outside world require a change in behaviour and attitudes on the part of both companies and workers. the greater the level of trust between the parties, the easier it will be to implement these reforms. the more intensive the dialogue, the higher the levels of trust, and the more intensive the social dialogue, the more transparency there will be in matters relating to restructuring or change processes. i believe that the political, economic and social actors in europe must therefore, in the present circumstances, seize every opportunity to promote the strengthening of the social dialogue not only at member state level but also at european level. this issue - the quality of work - also makes this great opportunity possible.
decent work for all, which is very rightly advocated by the ilo, must include the promotion of the rights of workers in a wide range of areas: employment, wages, employment relationship, health conditions, hygiene, safety at work, vocational training and promotion, social protection and social security, collective bargaining, social dialogue and the elimination of discrimination and inequalities. but it is enough to look at the reality of the growth of precarious and low-paid work, the millions of work accidents, the poor workers, unemployment and the new attacks on the rights of those who work - of which the so-called flexicurity is one of the most significant examples - to understand the contradictions in which we are involved and which lead workers to protest and struggle, as will happen in portugal with the general strike promoted by the cgtp which is scheduled for next 30 may. the commission itself is an example of the contradictions when it presents this communication and then publishes a proposal for a green paper on labour legislation. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the granting of community financial support for the trans-european energy and transport networks, while increasing the level of community co-financing currently in force, falls short of what was originally envisaged for both the transport and energy networks, as a result of the poor agreement on the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. but there is still a question of substance. the 'trans-european networks' are implemented with community and member state funding, i.e. mainly public funding, with the aim of laying the foundations for the internal market, as stated in the first point of the council's common position: 'strong and integrated energy and transport networks are the cornerstone of the european internal market and that better use of existing networks and completion of missing links will make it possible to increase efficiency and competition'. in other words, the completion of the internal market is at the heart of these projects, with the opening up of markets and the handing over to private interests of key sectors of a country's economy, then, of course, of the public investment made. we therefore support the maintenance of these sectors as public, and reject their privatisation, since they are strategic for the development of any country.
in writing. i voted in favour of the paul rübig report (a6-0155/2007) on roaming on public mobile networks in the community because i believe that the preliminary agreement reached between the european parliament and the council presidency on the text of the regulation, in which the members of the group of the party of european socialists played a key role, represents a significant victory for consumers. i believe that these measures will be decisive for the future of the information society, saving billions of euros and serving the interests of consumers better. reducing roaming charges will make it possible to break down the barriers that persist in the internal market, thus strengthening europe's competitiveness.
in writing. the regulation states that its ultimate objective is 'to create a well-functioning european internal telecommunications market'. this is because, as the report states, "self-regulation does not work". it is interesting to note that in this case they acknowledge that the market is not functioning. hence the need to regulate prices. they therefore propose regulation of wholesale and retail prices, including the creation of a regulated retail tariff (eurotariff), which all operators must propose, in order to achieve a significant reduction in roaming prices. however, the possibility of high profit margins for large companies in the sector still remains. but there are still advantages for users: a reduction in the cost of international calls, preventing these costs from being reflected in national markets, the choice of the most favourable operator and tariff. this is another case where it has become clear that the 'market' does not protect users and consumers by imposing regulation. it is time for the commission and the member states to recognise the same in many other areas, with benefits for the people.
in writing. the current roaming charges have been a burden on users in transit through several member states and constitute an obstacle to a genuine single market. given the transnational nature of the contractual relationships arising from these services, member states have shown little capacity to deal with this problem. similarly, although it is desirable that this issue could have been resolved by self-regulation of the sector itself, it was found that this was not possible. european consumers deserve fairer and more transparent treatment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner and that the rules are not distorted. although the limits on call charges are still far from the value initially advocated by parliament, i believe that it is a first step in the right direction, and has the merit of introducing the clarity and predictability that the market so badly lacked. i hope that operators will not respond to the loss of revenue by unjustifiably increasing the price of domestic calls, but will use this opportunity to increase their billing by increasing the number of customers and improving the services provided at national and international level.
in writing. it was good that the majority of parliament rejected this report. we voted against the imposition of tax rates at supranational level because it is a condition of fiscal sovereignty and of their political choices through taxes and the budget. in the specific case of excise duties, which today constitute an important part of the income of many member states, their main objective is to moderate consumption, as is the case with excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, in order to protect health. in addition to the direct impact of this tax on the activity of the agricultural sector and a large part of the industrial sector, it should be a decision primarily taken at national level, taking into account consumer preferences, particularly for traditional products, and different social choices regarding the consumption of alcoholic beverages, as well as different choices regarding the use of tax instruments, as is the case for wine in portugal, where it is important to maintain the current minimum rate at zero euros, which was also accepted in plenary. but we have to disagree with both the commission's proposed increases in the minimum rates and the rapporteur's suggestion that there should be a maximum rate.
in writing. this own-initiative report, in line with other commission communications on health care, aims to bring health services back into the logic of the internal market in services by presenting a new proposal for a separate directive on health services. that is why we voted against this report. but we are very pleased that the proposal to include health services in the directive on the liberalization of services was rejected. access to universal and quality health services is a fundamental right of all citizens, which should be guaranteed by the national social protection systems in the european union. health services are a public good and it is the fundamental task of the public authorities in each member state to ensure equal access for all to quality health services that are adequately publicly funded. i therefore oppose the creation of a liberalised internal market in health services and the current trend towards reducing or privatising health services or making them increasingly dependent on internal market regulation or competition rules.
in writing. although the controversy generated by this report has been resolved in due course, i believe that the report as it stands confirms existing rights and encourages patient mobility. well, that's exactly what it was intended for. as can be seen from the knowledge of the different schemes in the eu member states, and the particular relevance and discussion of this subject, the cautions that should be associated with this debate are understandable. however, the most relevant thing is to make clear and viable the faculties opened by the mobility of patients. health is one of the most sensitive subjects for citizens and it is not desirable that solutions be imposed on member states by means of community legislation which breaches the rules agreed upon by citizens and policy-makers. however, this does not prevent the introduction of rules to facilitate the use of this freedom in a free area such as the european union, where there is a tradition of mobility in various subjects. i therefore believe that the result achieved is positive and in the interests and rights of the citizens.
in writing. underlining that the report aims to contribute to the debate on the future of cohesion policy in the eu, we cannot but underline our disagreement with important aspects of the report, such as:- the conditionality of the allocation of funds under cohesion policy to the fulfilment of economic performance criteria set at community level, as a supplementary instrument of pressure on the way member states define their socio-economic policies;- the establishment of mandatory ceilings on the way structural funds should be used at community or member state level, such as 'reserving at least 20% of the structural funds for the promotion of r & d & i by the member states from the close of the programming period';- the advocacy of the use of the structural funds for the financing of private investment, in particular through public-private partnerships; - or the use of new cohesion indicators - employment, gdp disparities between neighbouring regions, decentralisation and accessibility, infrastructure and transport, research and innovation, education and training and the diversity of productions - without ensuring that gdp per capita should continue to be used as the basic indicator of eligibility under eu cohesion policy.
in writing. the idea of cohesion, which has been present since the treaty of rome, is one of the structural paradigms of the european union. in short, the development of one is the development of all. this idea, which is both generous and realistic, has been tested and approved by the passage of time, and it still is today, both for the states that have recently joined and those that have been members for years. i therefore share the rapporteur's view and that of the majority of european policy-makers that the value of cohesion must be promoted and defended. and i also think that the wording needs to be updated. what were objectives ten or fifteen years ago which were outside cohesion, or which could be because of more significant shortcomings and divergences, are now matters which clearly must be included in the face of an economy with a high rate of competitive acceleration. this requires cohesion to promote the strengthening of r & d skills on the one hand. and secondly, the support of the most competitive in each area. cohesion is not uniformity; cohesion is above all investing in exploiting specificities and ensuring the sustainability and durability of this investment to ensure harmonious development.
in writing. in our view, eu 'aid' cannot and should not be seen in the context of 'trade liberalisation', as the rapporteur proposes, or even that it should be used as 'one of the most effective guidelines for economic growth' in the poorest countries, for two reasons in particular. first, because aid is conditional on the adequacy of these countries' 'internal policies' and a 'real improvement in good governance capacity' in the interests of powerful multinationals, both in the eu and the us. in other words, the development of these countries is conditioned by 'aid', using their structural weaknesses arising from historical processes linked to colonialism, to the benefit of eu capital itself. the production for export is required, especially of products with low added value and low financial return, whose prices do not match the costs of production, as is the case with many agricultural products, forcing them to lift their customs barriers to the entry of foreign products. secondly, because this guideline establishes a hierarchy between countries, further deepening the gap between the so-called rich and poor countries, with consequences at the internal level of eu countries, as in the so-called third countries, ... (the minutes were approved)
in writing. as the report says, 'trade liberalisation is one of the most effective drivers of economic growth, which is indispensable to reduce poverty and promote economic growth and employment for the poor, as well as an important catalyst for sustainable development worldwide'. it is not, of course, a matter of saying, and i would not agree with it, that we can just liberalize trade and then we will see stable democracies flourish in free and pluralist societies. that is not true, and the present time, with examples such as the one brought by china, but not only, proves it. however - and this is true - there are no free, pluralist and democratic societies which are not, in essence, places open to trade. it is this understanding, and not its equivocal version or the absolutely illiberal view, that should govern the eu's guidelines on aid to international trade. our efforts at international level must be directed towards promoting a constant opening up of the world to trade, without thereby leaving unprotected economies and markets which need a minimum of protection.
in writing. despite the 'politically correct' language, the report fails to hide the real matrix and intentions of the eu with the current economic partnership agreements (epas), in particular with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. the eu's aim with the epas is to achieve the maximum of what it is aiming to gain from the current wto negotiations and has not yet achieved. i mean, coming in through the window after you couldn't get in through the door. the pace, timing and scope of liberalisation should therefore be gradual and flexible. or if it "stresses" that "singapore issues" "can provide advantages in terms of development". or if you 'believe' that 'investment, competition and public procurement agreements ... could contribute to common objectives of good governance and transparency by creating an enabling environment for greater public/private partnerships'. it is "remembered" that "the existence of appropriate regulatory frameworks is an essential part of any process of liberalisation", in particular of services and public services. that is, the whole neoliberal agenda full of "drifters" and "soft-assed" people. a totally different agenda is needed, one that promotes effective cooperation, solidarity, self-development and social justice.
in writing. within the framework of the wto rules, economic partnership agreements can and should nevertheless be an effective instrument for promoting trade and, above all, for supporting the development of trade-enhancing infrastructures. in this sense, this report is welcome, clear in principle and correct in the substance of its values. as with other similar issues under discussion in this plenary session, i am once again convinced that the promotion of trade (free, open and fair) is a key to the democratization of societies and the promotion of the plurality of social forces. that is why these partnership agreements are so important.
in writing. the report also stresses the blind defence of the rejected (!!!) 'constitutional treaty', calling for its 'full ratification' (?) and 'entry into force' (?), 'so that the union is ready to face the global responsibilities, threats and challenges of today's world', in particular through the cfsp (foreign policy) and esdp (its military strand), they say... this position adopted by the ppe and pse (which comprise the psd, cds-pp and ps respectively) is all the more significant when it is these same political forces who are negotiating the drafting of a so-called 'simplified' treaty which they claim is different from the content of the 'european constitution'. we understand each other! after all, how can one try to present something as different, when at the same time one reaffirms the essential content of what one is (hypothetically) trying to differentiate from? there's a cat... what the political forces and the big economic and financial interests behind the genesis of european capitalist integration really want is to support the accelerated militarization of the eu within a legal and constitutional framework - underlining the nato framework - as would be established by the so-called 'european constitution'. the result is a 'common' foreign policy of interference, with its aggressive aspect, directed according to the ambitions and interests of the major economic and financial groups of the great powers, with germany in particular at the head.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (a6-0068/2007) on promoting decent work for all because productive employment, in conditions of freedom, equality, safety and dignity, must be one of the central issues in the european union's trade relations. i believe that we must demand that our trading partners respect the conventions of the international labour organisation (ilo) on workers' rights, particularly fair wages and adequate social protection. i would also like to stress the need for multinational companies to take on their social responsibility, whether they are operating in europe or elsewhere in the world.
in writing. it is regrettable what has happened in the vote on this report in plenary. the majority prevented some of the best paragraphs adopted in the committee on employment on the subject 'promoting decent work for all - the european union's contribution to the achievement of the decent work agenda in the world' from being passed. it is a position which cannot but be underlined by demonstrating that its position cannot but be associated with the growing insistence on so-called flexibility. as we know, between 2000 and 2005, the eu saw its unemployed increase by one million, alongside a gigantic increase in precarious work: more than 4.7 million workers with fixed-term contracts and at least 1.1 million people involuntarily in part-time work. it is also unacceptable that a large number of workers, despite receiving a wage, are still below the poverty line. the promotion of decent work for all is above all about ensuring compliance with progressive labour legislation, ensuring respect for the dignity of those who work, providing decent living and working conditions for all, without any discrimination and inequalities, and not, for a series of good intentions, without practical correspondence.
regardless of the election result, and there are reasons to doubt its veracity, the most serious thing in the nigerian elections was the electoral process, in which the opinion of other international observers is clear: there was disorganization and fraud. the report of our colleagues who were there as observers is revealing in this respect. we can therefore conclude that these elections were used to ensure a legitimacy that international observers do not recognize and that democracies cannot accept. intimidation, fraud and violence explain the results better than popular will. unfortunately, this is not an isolated case on the african continent. quite the opposite! despite the progress made in recent decades, much of the most persistent violence and some of the most corrupt regimes are still at work there. there is nothing in the geography of africa, or in the genetics of africans, that prevents them from living in democracy, but there is a need for a clear and demanding investment by the international community in the democratization of the countries of this continent. for all the usual reasons and one more: china is a new global player in cooperation today that does not require democratization in return, quite the opposite. what is expected of the european union today, as the european union-africa summit is approaching, is that it should have a really useful function and not merely a proclaiming one. not all global actors act in the same way, but we and our allies have a duty to act together in the same direction. first, because of a matter of values and principles, but also of interest. it is that in free and stable democracies it is possible to conduct international trade with predictability and advantage for all, avoiding those who seek to enrich themselves in the murky waters of corruption and dictatorship. let us therefore be demanding about the summit which is to take place during the portuguese presidency. we do not want declarations of good faith or mere recognition of past mistakes, we want political truth and true politics. the european union must remain the largest provider of international aid and actively promote cooperation, but it must also be able to bring about reform, democratisation and freedom in these countries. otherwise, the european union gives the fish, but does not help the fishermen.
madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr newton dunn on his excellent report. i am not as acidic as he is in describing the situation and i recognise that there have been some contributions over the last 30 years in the field of police and judicial cooperation in europe. but i agree with him when he points out that there is a very big difference between the mobility of criminal networks, which take advantage of a europe without frontiers, and the level of intervention of the judicial apparatus, which is essentially confined to the jurisdiction of the respective member state. that is a contradiction that cannot be resolved. contrary to what some, wrongly, argue by limiting freedom and movement and by repositioning national borders. on the contrary, it is solved by more and better cooperation, more and better cooperation based on common procedures and a minimum of harmonisation of legal rules. we need, as the commissioner has rightly said, to increase our knowledge of the phenomenon of organised crime, which is becoming increasingly sophisticated, we need to strengthen the prevention policy in order to reduce the level of threat posed to our societies by organised crime, we need to take advantage of existing legislation by making better use of joint investigation teams, special techniques, the systematic targeting of illicit economic and financial resources, the effective use of both the european arrest warrant and the european evidence warrant. we must make better use of the various instruments already available, such as europol and eurojust, as the vice-president of the commission has stressed. madam president, i would like to conclude by joining my voice to those who call the attention of the member states of the european union that have not yet ratified the united nations convention against transnational organized crime and the annexed protocols on the fight against trafficking in human beings and the trafficking of migrants, to do so as soon as possible.
on behalf of the pse group. other the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the community's resources are not being used for the purpose of the common agricultural policy. we should applaud anything that can be done to eliminate or reduce the bureaucratic labyrinths that the common agricultural policy has woven throughout its life, which in some cases take on surreal aspects and are the biggest puzzle for farmers. but when we try to see in practice what real benefits the proposal brings to farmers' lives, we cannot help but feel some disappointment. it is recognised that the proposal represents a good exercise in codification by bringing together a scattered set of rules in a single text. the inclusion in the new cmo of several products which were previously governed by rules which did not constitute genuine common organizations of the market and the inclusion in the same regulation of other rules adopted by the council which are not currently part of the cmo is also positive. the reduction in the number of management committees will undoubtedly also bring some savings to the commission's budget, but there is a serious risk of lowering its technical level. all this is indeed a win for the commission services, but i repeat, i do not see any real gains for farmers who are the biggest victims of bureaucratic complexity. for these reasons the socialist group gives the commission's proposal the benefit of the doubt and seeks to contribute by proposing amendments to its own initiative and supporting others to the introduction of improvements to the proposal, such as the re-establishment of the balance of competences between the commission and the council, the clarification and strengthening of the role of inter-branch organisations and the guarantee of an appropriate participation of the member states in a smaller number of management committees, with a view to ensuring that their technical quality is maintained at an acceptable level. we also support the amendments proposed by the committee on agriculture to exclude the coms under review from the new regulation, as we believe that their inclusion at this stage could mean less respect for the participants in the current process, the outcome of which cannot and should not be anticipated. i hope the commission will welcome these positive contributions, which i am sure parliament will approve by a large majority. finally, as the shadow rapporteur for the pse, i would like to express my appreciation for the work done by rapporteur niels busk and all the colleagues who have contributed to the broad consensus that has been reached on the essential issues.
in writing. the issues raised by this report are complex and far-reaching, in particular as regards the sovereign power of a member state to appoint and define its representatives in the european parliament, within the existing legal framework governing elections to the european parliament. without entering into considerations of procedural and legal matters which are for the member state concerned alone to decide - in particular in the case under consideration in this report - the italian authorities, on the basis of a decision of the council of state, decided to appoint a certain member of the european parliament, the member who is challenged by the european parliament in this report. in view of this, we believe that, provided the conditions and requirements for the nomination of a member of a member state are met - at national level and at the level of the european parliament - it should be the responsibility of the european parliament, in accordance with its internal legal framework, to appoint him.
in writing. the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is an international agreement whose purpose is to ensure that international trade in species of wild fauna and flora does not threaten their survival. the convention now includes 171 countries, including portugal, which ratified the text of the convention in december 1980 and entered into force in march 1981. considering the fragility of survival of many species, cites is of particular importance. currently, about 5,000 animals and 28,000 plants are protected by cites, including species existing in portuguese territory. the species included in cites are divided into 3 annexes according to the degree of protection required. the illegal trade in animals and plants has over the years posed a serious threat to many species and, despite increased control, surveillance and combat in many countries, it remains unfortunately high. as with other types of wildlife protection agreements and plans, the success of cites also depends on a balanced approach based on scientific criteria and recommendations from accredited bodies, ensuring the validity and credibility of its actions and the effective implementation of agreed recommendations.
in writing. the report views innovation as a variable of the internal market, requiring the liberalisation of markets and the systematic removal of barriers to the free movement of goods, services and capital, freedom of establishment and labour mobility, always in the logic of competition/capitalist concentration. in the face of the underfunding of the seventh framework programme for research and development (r & d), it is once again advocated that the structural funds be used to finance it, as well as 'promoting and strengthening partnerships between the public and private sectors', i.e. placing public investment at the service of private profit-making logic. what is needed is to promote public investment in research, education and innovation, based on sustainable development strategies in each country, contributing to improving the quality of life, creating jobs (with rights) and wealth (justly redistributed). strategies that reject the commercialisation of knowledge, education and research and refuse that only highly profitable research with market opportunities will see the light of day. strategies that promote greater investment in education and training at all levels and that effectively facilitate access for smes to the various existing programmes and actions. (the minutes were approved)
in writing. the idea that a close relationship between higher education and enterprises can only result in mutual benefits is a classic one, but this is not always the case. on the other hand, public authorities often strive to create conditions (in accordance with the methods and timing) favourable to scientific and academic research, but do not always do so or are able to do so with equal effectiveness in the business field. it is clear that support for innovation at the level of enterprises must follow different rules and methods from investment in research at the academic level. however, as we know, a very substantial part of innovation is born directly from business activity and the search for answers to what the market demands, i believe that, in essence, this report from the european parliament is a useful contribution to what is proposed in the commission's communication. i hope that the national and regional authorities will take advantage of these opportunities.
in writing. before it is even a matter of choice or duty, the need to cooperate in the fight against organised crime - increasingly sophisticated, well-equipped and efficient in using the most modern technologies to its advantage - is a practical evidence. in addition to the opening up of physical borders, which is the result of the european union's integration process, it must also be borne in mind that globalisation and its mechanisms also operate in the field of criminal practices. as with all technological innovations, its good or bad use is always an open possibility. i therefore understand and support the general thrust of this report, which calls for greater cooperation and a strategic approach to this fight and all its upstream and downstream aspects. that said, this recommendation will only be useful in the sense of being more effective if, in addition to the normative steps, effective steps are also taken to strengthen trust between the institutions responsible for combating crime in the different member states. trust that the facts have proven to be indispensable to the success of this mission, which is not always the case.
in writing. we regard as very negative the resolution adopted today by the european parliament, which downplays and mystifies the real and serious significance of the recent events in estonia and is part of the attempt to rewrite history. that is why we are voting against it. it cannot but be stressed that the resolution conceals all the whitewashing of nazi-fascism, particularly in estonia, by the rehabilitation and even the elevation of collaborators with the nazi occupier, concealing their participation in the brutal repression and systematic murder of thousands of people. the recent decision to remove a world war ii memorial in memory of those who lost their lives in the defeat of nazi-fascism - which also involved the transfer of remains - from the centre of tallinn is another provocation that is part of this process of whitewashing. this is a provocation which has led to the legitimate protest of estonian citizens who have demonstrated against this decision and have been brutally repressed. this is a provocation, and it is in addition to the unacceptable discrimination against a large part of the russian-speaking population in estonia, whose citizenship is being denied by the authorities. this is a matter that goes far beyond the european union's relations with the russian federation and requires the mobilisation and indignation of all anti-fascists and democrats.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing in venezuela a classic phenomenon of the progressive concentration of authoritarian power. the venezuelan authorities often speak of themselves as promoters of a revolution and it is therefore worth checking whether the revolution has a democratic meaning or not: unfortunately, it does not. the step is increasingly against freedoms, fundamental rights, pluralism, social peace. i could speak of other disturbing phenomena in the political, constitutional, legislative, social and even, recently, military spheres. these are facts that concern all democrats, friends of the venezuelan people in the world and also the large portuguese community that lives and works in venezuela. we are aware that democracy has been a costly conquest for venezuelans for the last fifty years, and that we want it irrevocably. we are also aware that political and social stability is valuable for development, freedom and peace. today we focus on the case of radio caracas televisión and the threat this poses to freedom of expression, a universal fundamental right. i will not go into details, but it was his excellency president chávez who announced, on 28 december, the decision to close down the broadcasts of radio caracas under very serious political accusations. the administrative act of the competent authority was only made three months later, on 28 march, and it does not mention any of the very serious accusations that the venezuelan embassy in brussels also communicates to us. none of these accusations has been proven in court and the administrative act of the national telecommunications council (conatel) mentions different purposes than the creation of a public service channel in a process that, in our countries, we would describe as illegal and arbitrary. the mood has been extreme and we have seen people demonstrating in the streets against this decision. we know from the polls that public opinion is also against it and we also know that the case is political and, being political, it is a bad case. we call for the rule of law to be upheld and we call for dialogue: dialogue and law. that's it.
the european union has a meeting with the future at the next intergovernmental conference. a marked encounter with his own nature as well. it was here that the enlightenment proclaimed the transcendent value of human dignity and the method of a union of peoples for the realization of that value. as early as the 18th century, kant dictated the maxims for perpetual peace and said that the internal constitutions of states do not fulfill their function without an adequate external order. this is how modernity was made: anthropocentric politics, mobile institutions, power as an instrument of justice. the european constitution is one of the tasks we have to perform today to fulfil the modernity that europe has given birth to. do we want or do we not want a project of justice which is only possible on the basis of the method of political sharing? if we want to, the constitution gives us the answer. it forms the basis for a large-scale democracy, the strengthening of parliament's power, the rebalancing between the centre and the member states, the charter of rights, networked political work, rules of decision-making that give governance and effectiveness to a humane and open europe. the world is confronting us with new realities more and more. political elites have the responsibility to build new paradigms and define new ways of life. in this path to consensus - in which i would like to highlight the efforts of mr enrique barón crespo and mr elmar brok - i would like to deplore the devaluation of the symbols of europe. the devaluation of symbols does not answer any real cause for concern among citizens. it is a response to the spectre of radical political discourses, and europe is in a phase of refoundation in which it should not be without its symbolic dimension. paul valery once said that europe would be built only under the threat of decline. perhaps we can counter that europe is made by moral will and serene reason. one thing's for sure, there's no middle ground to this odyssey.
in writing. the first point to be made in this debate is that it must not be forgotten that the draft constitutional treaty became obsolete when it was rejected in the referendums held in france and the netherlands in 2005. any amendment to the current treaty thus involves the start of the whole process, and any proposal for a new treaty must be submitted to the electorate in referendums to be held in each of the member states on dates to be decided by their national institutions. but that's not what reporters do. they insist on reaffirming their support for the draft constitutional treaty and are thus trying to influence the decision of the european council of 21 and 22 june. which merits our complete opposition. for our part, we reiterate our disagreement with a project which insists on neoliberalism, the deepening of militarism and an ever-increasing concentration of power, through the establishment of a directory of the great powers of the european union, at the expense of reducing democracy and the capacity of the peoples and institutions of the small and mediumsized member states to intervene. we insist on a europe which is more democratic, more just and more united, which promotes peace and cooperation with the peoples of the world and which respects the principle of sovereign and equal states.
the middle east and, in particular, the dramatic situation in palestine have been recurrent in recent plenary sessions. it's only natural. we all witnessed what happened on the spot. we have all seen the same thing, we have all witnessed and reported before you a dramatic and explosive humanitarian situation. we have all seen the illegal withholding by israel of some 700 million euros in taxes and fees which are not its own and which are increasing every day. we all saw in the eyes of those people - human beings with the right to justice and dignity like us - the hope that one day they will live in peace. a hope that has survived despite the conditioning. a hope that every day collides directly with the lack of mobility and the wall. a wall that wipes out any kind of local economy, whether it's in its pure subsistence aspect through agricultural production, or something much more ambitious than that, like having enough produce to keep a small shop open. in the face of this continuing erosion of hope, despair is taking root, and we, members of this fortunate club of states which have won peace after tasting the bitterness of war, cannot think that all problems can be solved by riding on our euros. helping these people financially is very important, it's crucial, but more important is helping them to realize that in their country, their voice makes a difference and that it was very important the credible way they approached the electoral process and tried to find a solution to present to the world. that is why it is crucial that authority be restored in the palestinian territories. that the minister of finance, salam fayad, should become one of our main interlocutors in the matter of financial aid to the population. it is therefore urgent to normalise institutional relations. we must show that we are indeed available to resolve the conflict. peace in the region and peace in the world depend on us europeans. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the 40th anniversary of israel's illegal occupation of the palestinian territories of the west bank, the gaza strip (now violently besieged) and east jerusalem, the syrian territories of the golan heights and the egyptian territories of the sinai peninsula, which have since been recovered by israel. 40 years...:- violation of international law and failure by the israeli authorities to comply with numerous un security council resolutions;- criminal and brutal occupation, colonization and repression and denial by the israeli authorities of the most legitimate rights of the palestinian people; - oppression, plunder, exploitation, unemployment and poverty, the most shameful humiliations and inhuman living conditions imposed on the palestinian people by the israeli authorities; - support and collaboration or connivance and whitewashing of the profound responsibilities of the israeli authorities by the us and its allies in europe. the european union welcomes the signing of the memorandum of understanding on the establishment of a european union-wide peace and security policy, which was signed in brussels on 14 june 2007, a moment to reaffirm the demand for an end to the occupation of the territories occupied by israel in 1967, for respect for international law and for the implementation of the relevant un resolutions, in particular the inalienable right of the palestinian people to a viable, sovereign and independent state.
mr president, mr altmaier, on behalf of the council, mr vice-president frattini, ladies and gentlemen, may i make a few brief comments on the prüm initiative, which is being debated and scrutinized today and tomorrow by the european parliament and for which i was rapporteur in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the council's proposal, which was presented almost surgically just three months ago by the european parliament, was discussed and assessed at a breakneck pace by the commission. to this end, a public hearing was organised, with the full commitment, expertise and dedication of the libe secretariat, with the aim of involving all public and private actors in order to capture as adequately as possible the concerns expressed by them, always with a view to the necessary reconciliation between the requirements of operational and effective police cooperation and the defence and promotion of fundamental rights. this exercise of balance is extremely relevant when a proposal such as this one is at stake, which establishes valuable mechanisms for action and investigation in criminal matters, but which has a potentially harmful dimension to the rights and freedoms of citizens, an aspect which cannot and should not be ignored. as rapporteur on an initiative of such importance and visibility, my main concern was therefore to find the best possible balance between the requirements of effective operational police cooperation in the fight against the main threats to the foundations of the european union itself - terrorism and crime - and the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals. we agree that achieving such a balance and transposing it into a text accepted by the overwhelming majority of members represented in the libe committee, who also come from various political quarters, was not an easy task, but it was undoubtedly fruitful. i am convinced that the proposals which are to be submitted to the plenary for a decision have substantially improved the draft presented by the council. i am therefore pleased that the amendments we have adopted, the result of a broad convergence of positions between the various political groups represented in the european parliament and of close cooperation between the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, have been adopted almost unanimously in the libe committee, where only one abstention was recorded. and i hope now that you will receive the same acceptance from this house. among the amendments proposed, i would like to highlight the following, because of their relevance in the economy of what i consider should formally be a framework decision: further harmonisation of the conditions of access to biometric databases, limiting them to investigative situations and, in the case of dactyloscopic data, also to the prevention of serious criminal offences; the clear definition of the rules applying to the conduct of joint operations; the establishment of criteria of strict necessity for the transmission of personal data to be legitimate, in particular in the most sensitive situations, in large-scale events and in measures to prevent the occurrence of terrorist offences; the extension of the application of the chapter on data protection to all types of data processing, giving effect to all the recommendations presented by the european data protection supervisor in this area; the provision of a maximum retention period for personal data; the prohibition of safeguards in the context of the prevention of serious criminal offences; finally, the establishment of a third pillar of the european parliament's role in this proposal, following the establishment of the general data protection framework and the evaluation of any possible measures, and, finally, the establishment of a third pillar of the european parliament's role in this area of data protection, and the evaluation of any possible measures to be taken. as a final note, i would like to sincerely acknowledge the importance of integrating the intervention mechanisms established by the prüm treaty into the legal framework of the european union, which are undeniably important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. but i do not cease to express my concern about the fate of the european parliament's opinion in the council. in conclusion, the adoption of the framework decision with a view to deepening crossborder cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and crime, will lack obvious democratic legitimacy if the role of the european parliament is ignored in part or in full, which will in no way strengthen the confidence of the citizens of the union in the process of community construction, quite the contrary.
mr president, mr altmaier, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the strengthening of security and the fight against transnational organized crime and terrorism imply not only a strengthening of the common external borders but also a rapid and efficient exchange of information in the field of border controls and judicial cooperation. equally important are closer police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the creation of the visa information system. i therefore support the reports presented to us by mr fausto correia, mrs sarah ludford and mrs martine roure, with a special congratulations to mrs sarah ludford for finally reaching an agreement after two and a half years of negotiations. the proposal for the deepening of crossborder cooperation includes some of the main provisions of the prüm treaty, in particular with regard to the fight against terrorism, crossborder crime and illegal migration, while fulfilling some of the most important requirements of the hague programme. it thus includes some improvements in relation to the exchange of information and the provision of personal data which should be protected as fundamental rights. i welcome this proposal and support the position of mr fausto correia that this initiative should take the form of a framework decision, since it aims to approximate the laws and regulations of the member states. the vis should also be the third major information technology-based system to be set up within the area of freedom, security and justice. i welcome the fact that agreement has finally been reached so that we can move forward with the creation of this much-needed system, which should improve the administration of the common visa policy, consular cooperation and consultation between central consular authorities, help prevent threats to internal security and facilitate the search for the easiest visa - the so-called visa shopping - facilitate the fight against fraud and controls at external border control posts and on the territory of the member states and finally contribute to the identification and return - underlining 'the return' - of illegal immigrants by facilitating the application of the dublin ii regulation.
i would like to congratulate the cgtp-in and the portuguese workers for the great struggles they are waging in defence of their rights against the unemployment that is constantly growing, against the precariousness of work that it spreads, in defence of better wages, which are among the lowest in the european union, to which the stability pact has contributed. the general strike of 30 may was particularly important and paved the way for new struggles which the european institutions must also take into account when preparing new decisions which may aggravate the economic situation and social inequalities, such as the new interest rate increases by the european central bank, the so-called flexicurity to liberalize individual dismissals without just cause, further liberalizations in the area of public services. it is time for a change in policy, it is time to put people first and to take measures that respect and dignify those who work.
i would like to begin by taking up the words of our colleague ingeborg gräßle and tell the president that we cannot have a debate on parliament's budget again without having someone representing the structure of parliament itself present to listen to us. it is an absolutely inexcusable fault, which i hope will not be repeated. i would also like to say that i am concerned about the way the translation sector is being managed. i cannot understand that people who have been working regularly for nine or ten years should be told that they will lose their jobs just because they have not received the contract proposal they usually receive every december. this is not a way of treating anyone and is contrary to all the principles of social europe. i would like to say that this kind of procedure is not acceptable and i would ask the president to convey this message to the secretary-general.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the support given by the committee on agriculture to the proposals in the salinas garcía report is proof of two things: the good work of the rapporteur, whom i also congratulate, and the high spirit of commitment shown by members from almost all the political groups. i would like to stress that the european parliament's recommendations on crisis management and the strengthening of producer organisations are particularly positive. i am particularly pleased that my proposals for a transitional period to ensure the continued viability of tomato cultivation in some member states, particularly in my own country, portugal, have been accepted. i hope the commission will take this into account. i regret, however, that it was not possible to go further in other equally important areas such as greater flexibility in the management of the financial resources for operational programmes and the positive discrimination which should have been granted to the member states where the organizational weakness of the op is most marked. the commissioner's statement at the beginning of this debate, i fear, does not give a good idea of the extent of parliament's political support for the proposals, but i am confident in the good sense and the spirit of commitment of the council and the commission in the time to come.
five key concerns should be at the centre of this european council: stopping the european central bank's interest rate hikes to prevent social injustices from worsening; reviving public investment to create more jobs with rights and reduce poverty and social exclusion; discussing measures to deepen participatory democracy and the pluralistic debate on european issues; working towards a just peace in the middle east by defending the sovereign rights of the peoples of palestine and iraq; and strengthening international cooperation and solidarity to reduce social and regional inequalities. instead, we have an obsession with resuming the main proposals contained in the neoliberal draft constitutional treaty which expired with a 'no' vote in the french and dutch referendums. and now with the expressed concern to avoid public debate, to avoid referendums and to prevent citizens from expressing their sovereign position. the aim is to strengthen the concentration of power among the great european powers so that they can more easily respond to the interests of economic and financial groups. we, for our part, insist on the need to give priority to economic and social progress, to the rights of workers and of the population, and it is clear that any proposal for a new treaty must be submitted to the electorate in referendums to be held in each of the member states on dates to be decided by the respective national institutions.
the rapporteur. just three simple words: one of thanks, one of warning and one of warning. the word of thanks to all my colleagues in the libe committee and to all the political groups who, thanks to their goodwill, have made it possible for this report to be adopted so quickly. i would like to thank the portuguese government - and especially the secretary of state, josé magalhães - for the solution and initiative of this system which allows the new member states which meet the schengen evaluation requirements not to be unfairly suspended and to be able to link up with the schengen system immediately. second, the word of caution. on behalf of the european parliament, as its rapporteur, i would like to warn the council and the commission: we believe that this transitional measure can never prejudice the rapid completion of sis ii, which should not be delayed and which should remain a priority given the added value and important innovations it brings to our collective security. third and last, a warning. i would like to draw the attention of the council and the commission to the need to put pressure on the member states. it is up to each member state to prepare for joining the system and lifting internal borders. entering the schengen system means that we all share the trust in the control of our external borders. in this schengen evaluation process there can be no room for political agreements between governments to soften criteria or reduce requirements. this isn't a sympathy contest. it is our common security that we are dealing with and the security of european citizens is not to be trifled with.
in writing. the aim of this commission proposal is to incorporate into the community acquis the conservation and enforcement measures adopted in nafo, to which the community is a contracting party. the commission also uses the opportunity to update and consolidate in a single legislative document all the rules which are scattered over several regulations, in line with other legislative simplification measures. the rapporteur, in turn, updates these rules with other texts adopted after the commission's proposal, in particular in the framework of the 2007 tacs and quotas regulation. the purpose of simplification is, in itself, positive. however, we believe that the consequences of some of the measures now being introduced for the production of the long-distance fishing fleet, for the fishing industry and, as a result, for national economies, must be carefully managed at community level. it should also be remembered that portugal was one of the founding members of nafo and was represented by the community when it joined in 1986 - which, let us say, did not bring it any particular advantages, but on the contrary, so that it should depend on the difficulties of the national long-distance fishing fleet.
in writing. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to help people affected by natural disasters in greece and hungary in 2006 is an opportunity - in particular in the face of the impasse in the council over the review of this mechanism - to reaffirm the need to maintain the eligibility of regional disasters in this fund and to adapt it better so that it corresponds more effectively to the assistance needed by people affected by such disasters. it is therefore an opportunity to reaffirm that we consider it a bad thing that the scope of application of the fund is extended without, as a result, increasing its financial ceiling, or that the threshold for mobilising the fund is reduced in such a way that it is the eu countries with the highest gross domestic product that clearly benefit the most. we should also recall our proposals, which have already been approved by the ep, in particular on the recognition of the specific nature of natural disasters of a mediterranean nature - and the adaptation of the solidarity fund to the specific nature of natural disasters such as drought and fires, in terms of the time limits and the eligible actions - and the assessment of the possibility of creating an agricultural disaster fund.
in writing. draft amending budget no 2/2007 is intended to mobilise the solidarity fund to provide financial assistance to hungary and greece to help them cope with the damage caused by the floods in march and april 2006. one of the things that immediately strikes the eye - apart from the delay in the implementation of the aid, the causes of which should be ascertained - is the amount of eu financial assistance, which may be considered insignificant in view of the estimated direct losses. the overall amount of community financial assistance for disasters is about eur 24.4 million for a total of almost eur 900 million in losses (520 million for hungary and 372 million for greece). this is another example of the discrepancy between the extent of the damage and the aid given by the community, which calls into question the notion of effective solidarity with the people of the affected regions. this reinforces the need to reassess the current solidarity fund in order to adapt its eligibility criteria so that it better corresponds to the assistance needed by the disaster-stricken populations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the karin scheele report because i believe that excessive intake of vitamins and minerals can have harmful effects on health and because it is essential that the information is understandable to all consumers. the difficulties raised by the various national legislation are now minimised by this proposal through a harmonisation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the addition of vitamins, minerals and other substances to food.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bortone report on the proposal for a regulation on nutrition and health claims in food because it is based on better consumer information and protection, and aims to eliminate misleading nutrition and health claims, minimise their harmful effects and ensure greater consumer protection. food is the foundation of health. the concept of health is not confined to the absence of disease, but must also include the physical and mental well-being of the individual. i therefore consider it essential that health claims are scientifically proven after evaluation by the european food safety authority (efsa).
in writing. i voted in favour because i believe that the report aims to achieve greater approximation of the laws and regulations of the member states, allowing for close crossborder cooperation between police forces through the exchange of information and investigations into criminal offences. one of the objectives of the european union is to provide citizens with a high level of protection, freedom, security and justice. the existence of effective international cooperation through the exchange of data, guaranteeing the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, is conducive to this objective.
in writing. the prüm treaty was signed outside the eu legal framework on 27 may 2005 by seven member states for the purpose of so-called 'cross-border cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and cross-border crime'. in the meantime, nine other states have declared their intention to ratify it (including portugal). this treaty is part of the serious security measures which have been implemented under the cover of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', involving serious risks to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. the framework for police cooperation is at issue (joint operations, mutual assistance and even the possibility of police services from one member state acting on the territory of another, which seems to be controversial at council level). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the processing of personal data, which is a matter of public policy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the processing of personal data. hence our vote against.
in writing. the german presidency of the council is now calling for the transposition of certain parts of the prüm treaty into the third pillar. the objectives of this text, which are to combat and protect against terrorist threats, are of the utmost importance, and i cannot fail to point out that the procedure chosen by the council has prevented the smooth development of interinstitutional relations and has required an urgent opinion from this parliament. parliament has always taken a clear and responsible position on the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime, supporting the creation of conditions for the strengthening of crossborder cooperation and the exchange of information between the agencies responsible for the prevention and investigation of criminal offences. only then can we hope to prevent terrorist threats effectively. the establishment of procedures for the rapid and effective exchange of information is undoubtedly of the utmost importance, which is why i support this report.
in writing. the adoption of this framework decision on the protection of personal data is of the utmost urgency and importance, as it is essential to create a new overall legal framework for data protection under the 3rd pillar, comparable to the standards in force in community law, in order to ensure the same level of protection. i therefore welcome the fact that a political agreement has finally been reached, and i would like to highlight the efforts of the rapporteur, martine roure, and her contribution to this result. improving data protection under the third pillar implies that this framework decision should apply to the whole of the pillar, including europol, eurojust and the third pillar customs information system. as such, i support this extension and the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, in particular the addition of an evaluation and review clause, so that the commission will present new proposals with improvements within three years. i also support the 15 general principles put forward by commissioner frattini, which reflect the essence of the acquis on the protection of personal data processed in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. in the age of the terrorist threat, the balance between privacy and the protection of citizens is emerging as a constant challenge that we can only overcome with clear and responsible measures. the data protection rules used for judicial and police cooperation should therefore be designed to reinforce the principle of mutual trust between the authorities involved, allowing for more effective european cooperation and ensuring the greatest possible protection for citizens with regard to the use of such data. the measures to be taken should therefore be precise and comprehensive, protecting fundamental rights and respecting the articles of the charter of fundamental rights on privacy and the protection of personal data. i therefore welcome the political agreement reached with the council, which will allow the rapid adoption of this proposal for a framework decision.
in writing. creating the conditions for the recovery of fish stocks, in this case cod, is essential not only for the protection of marine biological resources but also for the maintenance of the fishing industry. the objective should be to fish less when scientific research has shown that fish stocks need to be recovered and when fishermen themselves have shown that they need to recover resources in order to be able to fish even more in the future. however, we must bear in mind that these recovery plans, by imposing restrictions on fishing, have strong economic and social impacts which need to be assessed and taken care of. we support the proposals in this report. however, the need arises to compensate the sector financially for the economic and social impacts of the cessation of activity, and here it was necessary that there should be a community compensation fund of its own, that is, that the common fisheries policy should take up its responsibilities. our vote against amendments nos 20, 21 and 22 is based on the fact that we believe that there should not be an automatic link between the ices and the decisions on tacs and quotas. other factors, notably economic and social, must be considered, as is shown by the representation in the jrcs.
in writing. after the cap reform, which introduced the principle of the single payment and moved towards the abolition of production aid, the european commission considers that the time has come for fruit and vegetables. with the usual arguments concerning competitiveness, market laws, the wto, etc., the european commission has put forward proposals which will lead (if the governments of the member states agree) to more production abandonment, to greater unemployment in the future, by linking aid to 'historic' aid, to the single payment scheme, which we reject. in portugal, the tomato industry is one of the sectors under threat. it is a sector in which there has been a lot of investment, in which it has developed, producing well and with quality, and where the overwhelming majority of production provides jobs for many small and mediumsized farmers, family farmers and many workers directly or indirectly linked to the agri-food industry. if this proposal from the european commission goes ahead, thousands of jobs in agriculture and industry could be at stake, even if in the short term there is still a payment to farmers and a transitional period. although the report introduces some measures which we consider to be positive, it does not substantially change the european commission's proposal and therefore cannot count on our vote in favour.
in writing. i voted in favour because i consider it essential, and increasingly urgent, to find solutions to overcome the problems and challenges facing the european union, both internally and externally. this report is balanced and represents an important contribution to resolving the institutional impasse in which the union finds itself in the near future. the eu must be equipped to respond to the concerns of its citizens in the face of the challenges of globalisation and climate change, thus contributing to strengthening democratic control of its decision-making processes. the new treaty, whatever name it may be given and whatever structure it may adopt, should retain the essence of the text already ratified by several member states, while at the same time containing the amendments necessary to achieve the necessary consensus. with the right legislative and budgetary procedures to ensure a stronger decision-making capacity of the european union and the effectiveness of its policies, the new treaty can help to solve some of the serious problems facing europe.
in writing. the adoption of this report is the most complete proof of the complete disregard for the sovereign decision of the peoples of france and the netherlands, demonstrating once again that the concept of democracy of the european parliament does not include respect for the sovereign decisions of the peoples expressed through the result of referendums. this decision by the majority of the european parliament shows that the so-called 'period of reflection' was only an attempt to forget the negative result of the two referendums and to avoid the holding of others where there could be more rejections of the so-called european constitution. two years later, there is again the pressure to deepen the capitalist integration of the european union, its neoliberal policies, its accelerated militarization and the centralization of power in supranational institutions, increasingly removed from the citizens and dominated by the great powers. it is unacceptable that the european parliament should try to claim a legitimacy it does not have, by trying to interfere with the timing and content of the process, that is, with the sovereign decision of the different countries, and by trying to coordinate the ratification processes. we insist on a europe which is more democratic, more just and more united, which promotes peace and cooperation with the peoples of the world and which respects the principle of sovereign and equal states.
in writing. paragraph 6 of the resolution would suffice to justify its rejection. say it like this: 'it reaffirms its commitment to reaching an agreement within the framework of the current constitutional process of the european union which builds on the content of the constitutional treaty, perhaps presented in a different way ...'. these 31 words alone denounce the real intention of the current (intimate) negotiations taking place at council level (i.e. between the portuguese ps, german cdu/spd governments, etc.) which is only an attempt to (re) impose the essence of the draft treaty rejected by france and the netherlands, signifying a profound disregard for the will democratically and sovereignly expressed in a national referendum by these two peoples. during the debate, did anyone really question whether they "take people for fools"? but it is because they do not "take people for idiots" that these political forces of the right and social democracy (sisters) negotiate "behind closed doors", lest the ruse fail by becoming too obvious. the german presidency is pushing things forward by putting the "mandate" of "preserving" the content and "substance" of the so-called "european constitution" in the "new" draft treaty, to be presented by december 2007 (!) and ratified by 2009. in a word, unacceptable!
in writing. if the constitutional treaty had been put to the vote in portugal, under the terms and conditions of two years ago, my vote would have been in favour. among other reasons, because it was understood that the resulting institutional stability was advantageous for the european union. it is a matter of two countries exercising their veto rights, as was expressly provided for, which represents a substantial change in circumstances and obliges us to respond in accordance with reality, not in spite of it. i still believe that the institutional architecture must be adapted to the reality of an enlarged 'europe' of 27, and i believe that the best solution is to be maximalist in overcoming the difficulties resulting from this new situation - so that the solution found is stable - but minimalist in introducing amendments which, however much the authors of the treaty proposal wished for them, have been rejected. realism is no less virtuous than idealism. finally, i believe that the referendum - and the possibility of its holding in portugal - will be as unnecessary as the solution found is farther from the constitutional treaty. and vice versa, of course.
in writing. the ep resolution, as well as the council conclusions, clearly show the debate on the completion of the definition of the functioning of this un body, where, it is all too evident, attempts to control and exploit it are growing. it is in this context that the eu's criticisms and pressures should be understood, inter alia, as regards the way in which some countries were elected to this body - deploring the so-called 'blank slate' principle and advocating the introduction of eligibility criteria - as regards the 'special procedure' mechanism, the strengthening of country mandates and the possibility of creating new mandates by simple majority - and the absence of a 'code of conduct' for this mechanism - or as regards the modalities of the 'universal periodic review'. in other words, we must continue to monitor the development of the establishment of this un body, all the more so since we know of the active intervention of the usa (and its allies) in order to manipulate it and, in line with our action in favour of the great causes of freedom, fundamental rights and guarantees, social progress, peace and solidarity, the rejection of the use of human rights as a cover for a policy of interference and aggression against sovereign peoples and states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important that european artists should be able to benefit from an appropriate level of integration in their professional activity. european standards must be applied with a view to a dynamic and innovative european cultural policy in all fields of the arts, offering artists the same social guarantees enjoyed by all other european workers.
in writing. we know that this report deals with issues which require special care in their treatment. but two questions are clear: it is necessary to guarantee the labour and social rights of artists, taking into account the specific nature of their activity and respecting freedom of expression and creation. we therefore consider it essential to take account of the activities of artists and to seek to improve their social status, although we are critical of some of the proposals contained in this report voted in the european parliament. we know that cultural democratization depends on the creation of the material conditions for its implementation and that the current period of deepening neoliberalism is not conducive to improving the working and creative conditions of the majority of artists. in portugal, too, the situation is complicated in this area, with attacks on rights won and cuts in cultural and artistic activities, with loss for everyone: artists and the population. we hope, however, that something will be done, in particular that these issues will be given greater visibility.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for 2008 is based on the following two aspects: the first concerns the intention to provide eur 10.3 million in 2008 for 'an awareness-raising campaign in view of the 2009 european elections' and eur 9 million for the implementation of a european parliament television channel. in particular, when no detailed information or justification is known about the use of these financial means. for example, how will they be used and by whom? what actions to finance? who decides how it is used? by what criteria? is it covertly trying to use this kind of 'awareness campaign' to use community funds, as was the case with the referenda on the outdated constitutional treaty, to fund propaganda campaigns in support of the essential content of the treaty in a scandalous way? the second is to ensure that multilingualism is effectively defended and practised in the european institutions and, in this particular case, in the european parliament. stressing that the increasing use of outsourcing of language and translation services and different types of precarious contracts inevitably affects the quality of the service and jeopardises the rights of these professionals,
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr horst schnellhardt on his excellent work and all those who have contributed to improving the quality of the commission's proposal to update the legislation on spirit drinks, with the aim of promoting the applicability, readability and purity of the text for businesses and consumers who need to have more and better information to make an appropriate decision. it is important to combine the two regulations currently in force in a regulation, simplifying legislation and adopting a clear policy for spirit drinks, adapting the regulation to the new wto requirements and defining the criteria for the recognition of new geographical indications. finally, i would like to say that the new regulation, with the contributions of parliament which i hope will be adopted, will continue the international knowledge of beverages which help to strengthen the identity of many european regions and in particular of the quality and value of european rum, particularly from the overseas territories and madeira, allowing promoters (the president cut the speaker off)
europe needs stable borders to the east, and it must be stressed that we agree with russia on one important point: we do not want russia to join the european union, nor does russia want to join. on the other hand, economic relations between russia and many eu states are becoming increasingly important in the field of energy, where stable agreements and well-negotiated supplies are needed, while clear solutions for russian investment in the european union are being negotiated and companies from the member states are vigorously penetrating russia's energy sources. the european union must maintain its support for a more balanced process and involvement of russia, not only in external trade but also in the reformulation of european cooperation programmes such as tacis. russia has financial and economic resources as well as human resources. without wishing to lecture our eastern partner, which has no long experience of political pluralism, we can say that the strengthening of trade with russia can play a very positive role. the report under consideration makes a significant contribution to the debate on trade and economic relations with russia. we know that the strengthening of these relations will contribute to a better mutual understanding and may contribute to the reduction of social and regional disparities, especially when accompanied by frank and in-depth political dialogue. i also believe that accession to the wto will lead to deeper economic integration between the eu and russia. at the same time, it is necessary to foster a favourable investment climate in russia and to encourage the russian federation to ensure decent working conditions and respect for workers' trade union rights. of course, it is also necessary not only to support but also to contribute to improving russian legislation in order to ensure the application of the law with regard to the protection of intellectual, commercial and industrial property rights. i would like to conclude by saying that all these contacts with russia can and should also contribute to freedom of movement and expression and to respect for national minorities throughout the federation. good business should make good friends.
we are living in difficult times in our relations with russia. we have an obligation to contribute to improving that relationship. between 'realpolitik' which tends to ignore principles and 'irrealpolitik', a term recently introduced into international relations by the former french minister védrine, which tends to ignore the complexity of reality, there is certainly a possible way, the way of a demanding and responsible pragmatism. i believe that is the path that is presented and pointed out in this report and i want to welcome it. a path that points to the strengthening of economic and trade cooperation and to the creation of conditions enabling russia to join the world trade organization, as a condition for a better integration of russia into the international framework in this field. at the same time, this path must also be a demanding one in terms of defending and safeguarding fundamental rights, fundamental human rights, the fundamental principles of a democracy, the fundamental principles of a state governed by the rule of law. and it is in this balance that we must seek the solution to solve in the long term the problems which still separate us from russia.
the rapporteur, in writing. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the european parliament's report on competition policy in 2005, we recognised the significant efforts made by the commission to modernise competition policy. let me highlight the main recommendations of the report. in the fundamental field of energy, we support the commission's action to separate ownership of production and distribution ('ownership unbundling'). we reiterate our call on the commission to clarify at community level the public service obligations which must be imposed on operators of services of general economic interest in the field of strategic security and universal coverage. we also consider it important to ensure that the eu's external dimension is consistent with competition policy when negotiating bilateral trade agreements. despite the commission's efforts to harmonise practices and ensure transparency, it is a fact that there is incentive competition between regions and eu states which, combined with the absence of tax harmonisation, encourages the artificial relocation of companies. these and other challenges illustrate the need to strengthen the eu's capacity to ensure the effectiveness of competition rules and to refine the flexibility to respond to new challenges. this is why it is important to continue to provide the european competition authority with resources commensurate with its mission.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, this debate on measures to assist citizens of the european union suffering from multiple sclerosis is of the utmost importance. it is important to know what measures have been taken, based on the december 2003 resolution on this disease, to increase the visibility of this problem and prevent discrimination against the more than 400 000 people suffering from multiple sclerosis in the european community alone. it is essential that the european commission gives full priority to research to accelerate the development of more effective treatment for all forms of ms and takes into account the code of good practice on this subject prepared by the ms societies of the member states and their european platform. i would therefore ask the commissioner what he intends to do to ensure equal opportunities for these people and to make the member states aware of the need to pay greater attention to this problem.
the wallis report on the crisis in the equitable life assurance society is an opportunity not only to shed light on this issue but also to push forward legislation and recommendation and greater clarity in the insurance field in the european union. there is thus a set of recommendations which are very interesting and which deserve careful consideration by the other european political institutions and the governments of the member states. the committee strongly recommends the further implementation of more sophisticated mechanisms which are able to guarantee exemplary cooperation between national regulatory authorities. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it is necessary to give the citizens, consumers and insured persons as much hope as possible, but it must not be excessive or unfounded, and the position vis-à-vis the british government does not seem to me to be adequately justified. on the contrary, it seems to me to be particularly dangerous. i therefore have some reservations about this report, particularly when it says 'the committee sees it as an obligation of the united kingdom government to take responsibility for its failures in providing redress for citizens' grievances'. this does not prevent me, ladies and gentlemen, from acknowledging the profound work done in the course of the debate on this subject and from reflecting on the need to move forward with clearer and more profound european regulation in the insurance field and, on the other hand, to codify some rules on the involvement of the european parliament through committees of inquiry.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou on her report. demographic change is the main challenge facing europe. it is a very serious problem that requires urgent action. the situation differs from country to country, but one thing is certain: the conditions must be created at social, economic and educational level so that young europeans can have the children they want without suffering negative consequences in their careers or interrupting their studies. women remain the most disadvantaged, leading to de facto discrimination in access to and pursuit of education and lifelong learning. on the other hand, young families are thrown to the outskirts of large cities, which means more time wasted on the commute home-work-school, more physical and psychological exhaustion and less follow-up with their children, with incalculable social costs. there are two major challenges that lie at the heart of gender equality policy. to close the gender pay gap and ensure the reconciliation of family life with work or education. access to education and professional development are rights for both men and women. to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, the european commission and the member states should promote policies that take into account the specificities of each family, including student parents, single mothers, etc., in terms of social security systems, adequate housing, childcare facilities and flexibility in curricula, timetables and choice of educational institutions so that our young people can contribute to the knowledge society, the competitiveness of the economy, social cohesion and the renewal of european society.
the rapporteur. ladies and gentlemen, since unforeseen transport difficulties prevented me and other members from speaking in the debate yesterday, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their spirit of cooperation and commitment, which has already resulted in a broad consensus. i would also like to thank the commission services, and in particular commissioner kroes, for their openness, personal interest and willingness to engage in dialogue. cooperation between the european institutions and strong involvement of the parliament are becoming more important today, at a time when european competition policy focuses on strategic sectors such as energy and services of general economic interest, covers new areas such as the environment, and much of competition has acquired a global dimension. it is therefore important that the modernisation of competition policy continues and that the spirit of cooperation that has been evident during the preparation of this report is maintained, in the interests of the european citizens.
in writing. this report concerns the fisheries protocol with são tomé and príncipe on the community fishing opportunities for 4 years (starting in june 2006). under this agreement, portugal holds five licences for surface longliners. under the new protocol, fishing opportunities were reduced by 32% overall and the financial burden on shipowners was increased from eur 25 to eur 35 per tonne of fish caught, while the financial burden on the community was reduced by the same amount. we are very concerned about the consequences of these measures for the sector. in view of these conditions, which translate at community level into protocols with fewer and fewer fishing opportunities and more burdens and obligations for shipowners, the question is what contribution do shipowners really make to the effective improvement of the economic situation of the fisheries sector in the various eu countries? finally, we have serious doubts about amendment no 2 adopted by the ep in this report, which gives the commission a discretion to refuse licences when there is a breach of obligations, and we therefore believe that the procedures in place for this type of situation should be safeguarded.
in writing. this protocol fixes the community fishing opportunities for the next six years in kiribati waters, while maintaining, in essence, the conditions of the may 2003 fisheries agreement. the exclusive tuna protocol maintains the number of licences available to the national fleet - i.e. 6 surface longliners - and the key for allocating funding, with shipowners contributing 35%. however, the reference framework has changed, with the old fisheries agreements with third countries (of a commercial nature) being replaced by the new partnership agreements (with protocols on fisheries), which are increasingly serving as development aid. it should be noted that in this context fishing opportunities are becoming increasingly scarce, the financial burden on vessels is higher and the fishing rules are more restrictive, which means that these opportunities are not fully exploited by a large part of the fleets. on the other hand, the relocation of production from european union countries is sometimes seen in this context. this is a set of issues which raise reservations and questions and which should be studied and evaluated further when these protocols are drawn up.
in writing. the new regulation on spirit drinks will bring greater clarity to the definition and production methods of these drinks. the horst schnellhardt report improves the european commission's proposal by making it clearer and introducing some spirits that are difficult to define and others that were missing from the original proposal. we support the report because it is a complete document, including the only two portuguese drinks initially forgotten by the european commission - rum and poncha da madeira. the amendment to the directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical agents, which was adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, was adopted unanimously. we felt that this was the most appropriate position to defend traditional values and the original production of vodka, and that it is in the interests of consumers to have clear information about the products they consume. on the other hand, it is a precautionary position aimed at preventing the same from happening in the future, distorting the production and marketing of some traditional portuguese drink. although this amendment was not adopted, the report was supported and a reference was made, albeit less clearly, to the raw material used in the production of vodka.
in writing. i voted in favour of the horst schnellhardt report on the proposal for a regulation on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks, because i consider it essential that the consumer is not misled. i therefore think it is important that producers provide clear information on the nature of the product, ensuring greater transparency on the market. the adoption of a single regulation, which brings together the two existing regulations, is intended to adopt a well-defined policy for spirit drinks, adapting the current legislation to the new technical requirements also defined by the world trade organisation.
in writing. the european commission adopted this proposal for a regulation to update community legislation on spirit drinks, including the definition of criteria for the recognition of new geographical indications. the proposal also aims to provide clear information to the consumer on the nature of the product and requires producers to provide all the information necessary to avoid misleading the consumer. this was one of the texts which led to a number of last-minute compromises between the various political groups in order to find an acceptable proposal for a regulation on the definition, designation, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks. at the heart of the controversy was what should be understood by "vodka": while some argued that the drink should only be made from cereals, potatoes and/or sugar beet molasses, others insisted on labelling so that consumers could distinguish the raw material used in its manufacture. as regards portugal, i think there are no problems with the proposals contained in the regulation, particularly as regards the geographical indications, which include the various wine spirits, bagaceiras and pear, madeira rum, algarve and buçaco rum, portuguese gin, singeverga liqueur, portuguese anise and madeira poncha.
in writing. in view of the marketing on the community market of dog and cat fur and products derived therefrom, i consider it necessary to create an instrument to standardise the rules applicable to this trade and to prohibit completely its use, import or export within the community. this requirement is based not only on the ethical aspect of considering these animals as pets, but also on the need to ensure a level of protection and respect for the welfare of animals that is not ensured by the cruel method associated with the rearing and slaughter of these animals. the confidence of european consumers and traders in fur must be restored, which can only be achieved by a common body of legislation prohibiting this trade and clarifying the legal requirements at the level of all member states concerning the prohibition of the sale and distribution of dog and cat fur and thus removing obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market in the fur sector in general. i am aware of the widespread concern of european citizens about this illegal and immoral trade, and i believe that the adoption of a set of concrete measures by the union in this area will strengthen the citizen's identification with the european institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eva-britt svensson report because i believe that by creating a set of measures to prevent the use of cat and dog fur we will be helping to put an end to this profoundly inhumane trade. i also believe it is essential to establish at community level analytical methods which will allow effective control of the origin of cat and dog fur, and to prohibit the import and export of cat and dog fur onto the european market. it is therefore not appropriate to provide for any derogation which is intended to create exceptions to its marketing.
in writing. following a large number of petitions and concerns raised, this regulation proposes a ban on the placing on the market, and on the import and export of cat and dog fur and products containing it, at community level. the ban will replace the different existing measures applied by member states to prohibit the production and/or marketing of cat and dog fur. the proposal also aims to ensure that information on new detection methods for distinguishing cat and dog fur from other animal fur is made available to the commission and exchanged between member states. the rapporteur strongly supports this proposal, but stresses the need to clearly eliminate any legal loopholes that jeopardise the very prohibition of import and marketing, and to make customs controls and administrative - and, where possible, criminal - sanctions applied by the member states more stringent, with the aim of creating a truly dissuasive framework to stop this scandalous and illegal trade.
in writing. while we welcome the adoption of our amendment to the effect that 'general access to broadband is an indispensable condition for social development and the improvement of public services and that public authorities should make every effort to ensure that all citizens have access to broadband, thereby extending its benefits to all sections of the population, particularly in the less developed regions of the union', we regret the non-adoption of our amendments which stressed, for example: - 'that in some ultra-peripheral regions with a high geographical dispersion, there are parts of their territory that do not yet have access to essential ict infrastructures such as broadband internet, which is the case, for example, with the western group of the azores (flores and corvo), thus representing a double penalty to be added to the constraints arising from ultra-peripheralness'; and 'that account should be taken of the differences between the ultra-peripheral regions, such as the constraint that geographical dispersion represents in some of them, as is the case of the azores and the canary islands, which implies guaranteeing the right of access to essential ict infrastructures such as broadband internet in the entirety of its territory to all its inhabitants.'
in writing. the report reflects the current framework of inter-capitalist contradictions between the major powers of the eu and russia. the text develops lines of intervention vis-à-vis russia - and it can be said that it presents itself as a true guide to neoliberal policy - so that it is shaped by the interests and ambitions of the major economic and financial groups in the eu. here is the significant criticism of "the recently introduced law in the russian federation that allows the government to reject foreign proposals to acquire majority stakes in russian companies, thus prohibiting foreigners from owning more than 49% of companies operating in 39 strategic sectors". the majority of meps 'question the law itself and the choice and growing number of industries that have been considered strategic and essential to russia's national security'. and, perhaps too much to expose the real purposes of such considerations, the consideration has been withdrawn 'that such an approach will not improve the investment climate and raises fundamental questions as to the role of the state in a market economy and competition in key sectors of the economy; the committee of the regions believes that in russia, as in other countries, the market is the best determinant of the system of company ownership.' more words for what?
in writing. the eu's relevance to russia is due to a combination of factors ranging from geography and size, strategic location, importance in energy supply - notably as an alternative to energy sources located in the middle east - to the memory which is particularly sensitive in most of the member states that have been part of the eu since the last two enlargements, to trade and, of course, to the role played by russia in international relations. all these factors call for realism. but realism is not to be confused with ignorance of the difficulties or with the absence of a framework of values. today's russia, despite some significant improvements in several sectors, is far from being a free and open democracy that fully respects human rights. i therefore think it is welcome that the eu was able to speak with one voice at the last eu-russia summit, incorporating the various concerns and interests of the different member states in its speech. even if the results achieved are not ideal, an approach such as this, which recognises the multiplicity of european interests, represents them and remains true to its framework of values, is preferable.
in writing. in general, the european parliament uses the sectoral annual reports - in this case on competition policy 2005 - to present its maximalist positions. it is currently doing so in the light of the concern to ensure full liberalisation of the energy sector by 1 july 2007, tax harmonisation in relation to corporate taxation (with a common consolidated corporate tax base) and the reduction and control of state aid, which is a sui generis feature of eu competition policy. nor does it forget to change the rules of competition when they prevent the concentration and centralisation of capital. all this is done in the name of the neoliberal lisbon agenda. that is why we are voting against it. however, two points deserve to be stressed. firstly, we reaffirm our opposition to changes in strategy in the face of mergers and impacts on competition, with the aim of encouraging ever larger european multinational groups to compete globally, rather than analysing the impacts of company concentration on their national markets, while continuing to criticise 'monopolies' and public authorities. it is recorded that mergers and acquisitions in the eu have tripled in value since 2003. secondly, there is a veiled suggestion that the competition rules apply to services of general interest.
in writing. the union's competition policy is of the utmost importance in an open market economy. fair trade measures for goods and services are of the utmost importance if we are to reap the important benefits of open markets - from lower prices to increased quality and choice for consumers, and the very important development of technological innovation. we therefore vote today to promote further clarification of the competition rules and the strengthening of legal certainty so that all the measures which have been taken to improve the effectiveness, transparency and coherence of this policy can be put to good use. the current approach seeks to go beyond a merely formal view of competition rules, to be able to better assess the actual or potential effects of certain practices or structural changes in firms, and to take decentralisation as another very positive trend. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mrs ferreira.
in writing. the report stresses the importance of all young people, men and women, benefiting from quality education and training adapted to the new market requirements and from a continuous updating of their knowledge in order to enable them to enter and progress in a lasting way in the world of work. considering that the level of education is a key determinant of a society's growth and capacity for innovation, the oecd estimates that adding an extra year to the average length of education increases the growth rate by about 5% immediately, and by about 2.5% in the long term. in countries with higher average levels of education, there is less inequality between individuals, which is a major challenge for portugal, the country with the highest inequality and the lowest level of schooling in the eu. in general, the level of employment increases with the level of education attained. the employment rate for those with a higher education degree was 84% in 2001 for people aged 25-64, about 15 points higher than the average for all levels of education and about 30 points higher than for those with up to the lower secondary level.
the genocide in darfur, the serious crises in zimbabwe, somalia, ethiopia and nigeria, corruption, pandemics, desertification, the flow of arms, the race for oil and other natural resources are all factors fuelling more conflicts in africa and increasing the number of desperate people risking their lives to enter europe or wherever they find better conditions. so it is depressing to see the g8 simply repeating unfulfilled promises from gleneagles. in the meantime, as the glennys kinnock report well documents, the millennium development goals have yet to be internalized as a priority by european governments and the commission. in africa in particular, the millennium development goals will have to underpin any security and development strategy and therefore also the joint cooperation strategy to be adopted at the eu-africa summit in december, which can no longer be a mere 'photo-op'. it is necessary that this should be the basis for phased commitments to the millennium development goals by european and african authorities and strategies that go beyond governments and beyond short-sighted and unprincipled competition with china. investing in the strengthening of democratic institutions and civil societies in african countries also means investing in those who fight for human rights, women's rights and civil liberties in africa. it implies that the european union and its african partners must demand from each other that they comply with the agreements which already bind them, such as the cotonou agreement. without justice and the rule of law, there will be no good governance and much less sustainable development.
the question period is now over (b6-0125/2007). the following questions were put to the commission. part one
question no 35 by mr manolis mavrommatis (h-0355/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: insurance companies in the euaccording to information, insurance companies only insure cars registered and registered in the country where they are based, although eu legislation provides for the possibility of insuring cars registered in another member state. in the light of the third directive on direct insurance (oj l 228, 11.8.1992) and the fourth directive on motor insurance (oj l 181, 20.7.2000), will the commission propose a revision of the directives so that the european consumer can choose his insurance company and the state in which he wishes to insure his car? does the commission consider that this freedom will also favour competition by causing a significant reduction in insurance prices?
question no 36 by brian crowley (h-0411/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: information campaigns on the purchase of real estate in different eu member states could the european commission consider drawing up and distributing an information brochure highlighting the differences in tax, accounting and legal matters that would be of concern to prospective european buyers if they were to purchase a property for residence in another eu member state?
question no 37 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0362/07) subject: external action of the european union and immigration policies in view of the recent extension of the european union's competences in the field of immigration and the development of the european commission's activities in this area, can the commission state whether the european union external action service has sufficient means to assist the member states in implementing the new cooperation arrangements put in place in this sector in matters such as the recruitment of legal immigrants or the repatriation of immigrants to their countries of origin and their reintegration into their companies of origin?
question no 38 by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0371/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: development of the deficit and public debt in reply to an earlier question i put on this subject (e-0574/07), the commission states that it expects the evaluation report to be submitted to the gross domestic product committee in july or october 2007 and that only after all the steps mentioned in the first part of the reply have been taken will the commission be able to calculate the additional contribution. when will the commission finally consider the greek government's proposal to revise greek gdp? what are the trends in the deficit and public debt in 2007 and what are the commission's forecasts for 2008? what measures do you think should be taken to maintain the trend towards reducing the deficit and public debt?
question no 39 by danute budreikaite (h-0393/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: application of the treaty concerning the accession of the kingdom of sweden to the european union article 2 of part one of the treaty concerning the accession of the kingdom of norway, the republic of austria, the republic of finland and the kingdom of sweden to the european union provides that 'as from accession, the provisions of the original treaties and the acts adopted by the institutions before accession shall be binding on the new member states and shall apply to them in accordance with those treaties and this act'. this means that sweden, in accordance with the accession treaty approved in 1995 by referendum, is obliged to introduce the euro provided that it meets the maastricht criteria. however, despite the commitments made under the accession treaty, sweden rejected the introduction of the euro by referendum. as the guardian of the application of community law in the member states, can the commission comment on the case of sweden? will other member states also have the right to use similar procedures, for example to ensure their energy security?
let's move on to the follow-up questions. i have received more than i can accept, so i can only give the opportunity to speak to two members. i have to respect the criteria laid down in the regulation, in article 109 and in annex ii, which regulates the procedure for the question period to the commission. i have chosen mr lundgren and mrs kauppi.
question no 40 by mr ryszard czarnecki (h-0435/07) subject: entry of poland into the eurozone when does the commission consider that poland will meet the criteria for joining the euro area? does the commission consider that this objective will be achievable in 2012 or even earlier? if not, when?
question no 42 by sarah ludford (h-0365/07) subject: the use of the euro in the european union subject: draft of a third runway at london heathrow airport what steps has the commission taken to ensure that the proposed third runway at london heathrow airport does not contravene eu air and noise pollution regulations?
question no 43 by georgios papastamkos (h-0366/07) subject: european environmental governance and the environment does the commission intend to develop a comprehensive and coherent 'green governance' action programme which codifies, simplifies and makes visible to stakeholders the existing regulatory framework and includes new environmental-related legislative initiatives, reflects the eu's external commitments on the environment and ensures the cohesion of the eu's environmental, trade and industrial policies?
question no 44 by mr david martin (h-0373/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: european union objectives for the concentration of greenhouse gas emissions the european union has set itself the strictest target in the world to limit the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. the commission believes that the 550 parts per million (ppm) carbon dioxide equivalent target will limit global warming to a maximum of 2° above pre-industrial levels. however, in a recent study, climate scientist malte meinshausen estimates that the likelihood of this goal limiting global warming to a maximum of 2 degrees is only 12 percent. a draft report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) says that the likelihood may even be lower. in 2005, a study by the commission itself concluded that to achieve a reasonable probability of limiting global warming to a maximum of 2°, it may be necessary to stabilise concentrations at a level well below 550 ppm co2. can the commission explain why it sets targets which it knows cannot produce the desired result? what measures does the commission propose to take to reduce the concentration of greenhouse gases to 400 ppm, the value recommended by malte meinshausen, in order to achieve the maximum probability of limiting global warming to 2°c?
question no 45 by mr bernd posselt (h-0381/07) subject: tourism of waste how does the commission assess the development of waste tourism between bavaria and the czech republic and what measures does it intend to take to reduce it in the eu and in the regions bordering the eu?
question no 54 by mr claude moraes (h-0357/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: screening for cancer cancer affects 2 million people in the eu, of whom 276,678 live in the uk. in the light of the recent council recommendations on cancer screening, does the commission have any information on the degree of effectiveness with which member states are considering this recommendation?
question no 55 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0359/07) subject: new strategy for health and the environment what concrete action is the commission taking in the context of the new health strategy, particularly with regard to children, to prevent and combat behaviour that is harmful to health (smoking, alcohol, obesity)? does the commission consider that children have an autonomous right to hospital and medical care irrespective of their parents' income and work?
question no 56 by mr tarabella (h-0360/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: health services the commission presented on 20 april 2007 the results of the consultation on health services that it had launched in september 2006. given that most of the replies are 'in favour of community action in the field of health', could the commission give initial guidance on the follow-up it intends to give to this consultation, in particular with a view to providing patients with better information to enable them to make informed choices, to clarifying the procedures and deadlines imposed on patients wishing to use health services in another member state and to indicating the means of redress it intends to propose against refusal of prior authorization by the national authorities?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.40 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, as we all know, agriculture, unlike the rest of economic activity, is carried out outdoors, which often leaves farmers dependent on weather events they cannot control. the farmers who are victims of these calamities cannot be dependent on charity, either national or european. they must be given rights so that in similar situations, within the european area, everyone can be treated equally. it is in this spirit that, as rapporteur for the draft resolution on the agricultural aspect of natural disasters adopted a year ago, i proposed, among other measures, the creation of a european insurance system with triple financing: farmers, member states and the european union, precisely to respond to this type of situation. so, in addition to supporting the request for solidarity support, which is due to the farmers concerned, i would like to ask the commission whether it intends to implement the proposal adopted a year ago in this parliament by a large majority, aimed at establishing this insurance system, which would not, moreover, entail an increase in the community budget, and, if so, when it intends to submit a proposal to that effect.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. so first of all i would like to say that we are in solidarity with all the farmers in poland who have been hit by the recent frosts which have destroyed most of this year's fruit and vegetable crops and for whom we are asking for the necessary support. there must be a response of solidarity from the european commission. however, we should also mention the severe hail and thunderstorms in portugal in may, which caused serious damage to farmers in murça, sobral de monte agraço, azambuja, torres vedras and alenquer, alvito, vidigueira and cuba. we must also show our solidarity and call for the support that is needed. these situations demonstrate that farmers are among the first to be affected by climate change, and it is therefore important to ensure that public policies are put in place to guarantee farmers' income, even in times of crisis and crop destruction due to climate reasons, whether frost or hail, floods or droughts. it is time to create a public insurance funded by the european community. however, it is also important to ensure the protection of agricultural product markets and to promote a new agricultural policy as part of local and regional development policies which articulate various sectoral policies and give them cohesion and coherence. a new agricultural production strategy is needed which takes account of comparative natural advantages, the need to increase productivity and production levels and the integration of production systems into the framework of the ecological and climatic characteristics of each region, which has as its reference points food quality and the promotion of effective improvement of the incomes and living conditions of farmers, ensuring the future for young farmers and the food sovereignty to which each country is entitled.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs ria oomen-ruijten, on her excellent work, which presents us with a bold, balanced and prudent proposal which clearly goes in the direction of developing a decisive component of the european project, namely more freedom of movement with more protection. ladies and gentlemen, the globalisation of the economy and the ageing of the population are two questions to which europe has not yet found a clear and convincing answer. a more globalised economy implies a willingness to change, which means more mobility. the mobility of workers implies the acquisition, retention and transfer of pension rights and is essential for the development of the internal market. on the other hand, the ageing of the population with the inherent and foreseeable increase in public expenditure requires ensuring the financial sustainability of social security models. this sustainability will be all the more guaranteed if there are more conditions for instruments complementary to the pensions financed by the state. the trend is clearly in this direction, given the financial pressure that demographic change places on public authorities. the greatest challenge facing the european union today is to maintain the core values which are the basis of the european social model and at the same time to be competitive in the world context. this will only be possible through political action and if we are able not only to reformulate some aspects of this social model but also to develop very determined action with a view to deepening the internal market, especially as regards the free movement of people, in this case. the proposal we are discussing today is a very positive and encouraging sign of that.
in 2003, the european parliament rejected two commission initiatives on this subject. i congratulate the commission for separating the issue of residence permits from the issue of visas, and i agree with the european parliament. apart from the technical issues linked to a conflict in the radio emissions on the different chips, these are in fact different issues. it is one thing to have an identity document for use within the schengen area, it is another to have a travel document for use outside the schengen area. this will allow all third country nationals legally resident in the schengen area to be identified in the same way. i would therefore like to congratulate the commission on proposing the introduction of biometric identifiers containing an image and fingerprints in an interoperable format. the use of such biometric data is the best way to prevent the use of false identities and the misuse of identities. i would, however, draw the council's attention to the need for these changes of residence to respect the same high levels of security as are required for the issuing of national identity cards. i would also draw the council's attention to the gaps in the way data are collected, especially in the case of children or people who, for various reasons, cannot provide fingerprints. finally, i would draw the council's attention to the data protection rules and the need to draw up a detailed list of the authorities who will have access to them and of the authorities responsible for carrying out checks on residence permits, in order to prevent the misuse of the most sensitive data.
in writing. as our group says, this proposal - which introduces biometric data into the uniform format for residence permits for third country nationals - 'raises concerns as regards its technical feasibility, the financial burden it implies and the risks of abuse it poses'. as underlined, it is more than questionable whether the introduction of biometric identifiers will actually increase security. on the contrary, it may, above all, be a threat to the same, owing to the risks of abuse, the technological shortcomings and the lack of transparency and data protection it entails. this is a disproportionate measure, part of a supranational dynamic and the creation of eu-level monitoring and control instruments - such as the creation of a personal database - without even being accompanied by 'particularly serious and robust safeguards, mainly concerning the way data is collected and used' and without it even being possible to ensure its use 'in a relatively safe environment'. as a consequence and an integral part of the current security drift by the eu institutions, the present proposal deserves our rejection.
in writing. the oslo-paris commission recommended in 1990 that all chlorine and mercury cell-based alkaline plants convert to mercury-free technologies by 2010. the european parliament resolution on the community strategy on mercury (march 2006) called on the commission to ensure its implementation. in addition to the current mercury emissions from chlorine and alkaline mercury cell plants, when these plants convert to mercury-free technologies, the large amounts of mercury in their cells need to be managed in an environmentally appropriate manner. in order to prevent these surpluses of mercury from invading the world's raw material markets, a proposal for a regulation was adopted in october 2006 to ban the export of metallic mercury from 1 july 2011, which was now sought to be brought forward. there are provisions for the safe storage of surplus mercury, mainly from chlorine plants and alkaline products based on mercury cells, to prevent its resale, given that there are about 12 000 tonnes of mercury in europe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway.
in writing. when it comes to the transferability of pension rights, at least two fundamental aspects must be taken into account: ensuring workers' rights and the sustainability of public social security systems. in this case, it is only the supplementary pension schemes and not the public social security schemes. in the light of these two aspects, we consider the amendments tabled in the report to be negative, which amend the european commission's initial proposal to raise the age of access to supplementary pension schemes from 21 to 25 and to make the acquisition of pension rights conditional on a minimum period of five years. however, it should also be borne in mind that supplementary pension schemes cannot and should not replace public schemes. public social security schemes, based on solidarity and universality, are one of the pillars of any state and a fundamental guarantee of a more just and equal society. finally, we regret the rejection of the amendments we tabled, in particular the one which sought to combine the european commission's original position on the minimum age of 21 with the two-year entitlement period, which were more favourable to workers. hence our final vote against.
in writing. our abstention from this vote is justified by our respect for the sovereign decision of a member state to join the euro area. but our opposition to the creation of economic and monetary union and the euro zone is well known. the example of portugal shows how the euro is an instrument for promoting wage moderation and labour flexibility. by supporting nominal convergence rather than real convergence, it is becoming a factor that is detrimental to growth, employment and living conditions, and is always at the service of the large european multinationals and financial groups. it is also stressed that the question of accelerating the enlargement of the euro area is also linked to political criteria, in particular the strengthening of political integration and the euro area itself. with the two new member states - malta and cyprus - the euro area now comprises more than half the member states of the european union. this is an important 'symbolic' issue at a time when the discontent of workers and the population is growing in the eurozone and when the future constitutional treaty is being discussed. the majority therefore accepts accession, even if malta does not meet all the criteria for nominal convergence. as in the past, this is not an 'economic' decision but a political one.
in writing. it is well known that we rejected the creation of economic and monetary union and the euro, as can be seen in the vote on the european parliament's resolution of 2 may 1998, which established the euro zone, made up of the 12 founding countries, including portugal. we believe that monetary policy and the ability to issue currency is a matter for the member states alone and we have therefore rejected this transfer of sovereignty which makes it impossible to respond to the economic and social problems of each country, of which portugal is an example. at the moment, the enlargement of the euro area is also linked to political criteria, namely to strengthen political integration and the euro area itself, as this case clearly demonstrates, since malta does not meet all the nominal convergence criteria. however, with the two new member states - malta and cyprus - the euro area now comprises more than half the member states of the european union. this is an important 'symbolic' issue at a time when the discontent of workers and the population is growing in the eurozone and when the future constitutional treaty is being discussed. however, we respect the sovereign decision of a member state to join the euro area, which justifies our abstention.
in writing. we regret the significant rejection by the majority of the european parliament of the amendments tabled by our group to ensure that 'the galileo programme must not under any circumstances be used for military purposes' and that 'safeguards should be provided against any future privatisation' of this programme, especially as its implementation will be fully ensured by public funding. does this mean that, after such a large public investment, it is already considered unacceptable to conclude a concession contract for its future exploitation by a private entity? our position is clear. we believe that the galileo programme (european radio navigation and satellite positioning programme) can contribute to cooperation, scientific and technical progress and the exchange and accessibility of information. this project should be based on a public investment and control strategy in order to provide a public service, ensuring equal access for all users and free use of the information available to them. it is a project in which the rights, guarantees and freedoms of citizens must be fully guaranteed and not used for military and/or security purposes.
in writing. we need no more than the first recital in the preamble to this report and its title to justify our vote against it. the objective of community public procurement law is to open (liberalise would be the better word) the public markets of the member states to cross-border competition in order to support the development of the internal market, in line with the liberalisation agenda contained in the lisbon strategy. we are of course in favour of national rules for the transparency of public procurement, without denying the possibilities of using public markets to promote the economic fabric and national small and mediumsized enterprises, given their size and importance. but there is a substantial difference here which justifies our vote. the fact is that this matter should remain the responsibility of the member states. as regards public procurement, we note that it is also important as an instrument for promoting social and environmental policy, since it may contain criteria relating to both areas for the award of contracts. this utility cannot be restricted at a supranational level in the name of non-discrimination rules or other economic interests.
in writing. i voted in favour of the kinnock report (a6-0220/2007) on 'halfway to the millennium development goals' because i believe that we need a broad partnership to achieve the millennium development goals. it is therefore desirable that the national parliaments and civil society in the countries concerned should be involved. one of the key points for achieving these goals is to reduce poverty by 50% by 2015, with particular attention to problems such as hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria. gender inequalities and discrimination against women are also elements to be taken into account in development programmes.
in writing. it is good that the report recognizes the seriousness of the world situation. moreover, as the 2006 un report on the mdgs points out, progress in reducing hunger has been too slow and the numbers have actually increased in recent years, with 854 million people (17% of the world population) going hungry every day and almost 16,000 children dying every day from hunger-related causes. however, once again the report ignores the causes that are at the root of this intolerable situation. it is necessary to point out that, while 16 000 children die every day from hunger-related causes: - the us administration has budgeted for 2007 over 600 billion dollars for military spending; - i know . the 691 richest people in the world have a net worth of $2.2 trillion, or the combined wealth of the 145 poorest countries. - the 500 richest people have a combined income greater than the 416 million poorest people; - i know . the richest 8 million people have a net worth equal to 80% of the gdp of all the countries in the world. this is the root of the problem.
in writing. in the space between the explanatory statement and the vote there are two notes which i think are relevant. the first paragraph of the resolution states that 'the overarching objective of development cooperation is, and must be, the fight against poverty; it is stressed, however, that this struggle is not limited to material growth and that therefore the building of democracy, the promotion of fundamental human rights, the rule of law and the principles of justice, equity, transparency and accountability must always be central themes of such cooperation. i did not oppose this resolution because i felt that the concerns in question appeal to the highest denominator that we are capable of, but i think that the idea should be emphasized that there is no effective fight against poverty without combating its causes. and among the structural causes of poverty will always be bad government. that is why, and not because of the desire to impose any model, it is so important to do both fights simultaneously. otherwise, we are solving a problem today that will be repeated tomorrow. finally, it is regrettable that, as stated in the report, 'portugal, which is due to host the eu-africa summit during its presidency, achieved only 0.21% of oda/gni in 2006'.
in writing. as is clear from the resolution adopted here, the work of the acp-eu joint assembly in 2006 and in previous years is an excellent way of creating the structures, relations and dialogues that are indispensable for laying the foundations for a good relationship between the two parties and for the development of truly useful projects. that said, it should be noted that the path traveled is commendable, but our concerns should be based on the path to be traveled. we have an obligation (as much moral and ethical as it is in our own interests) to support the development of the associated countries, to develop with them the mechanisms for opening up economies and to make globalisation an essentially virtuous movement, and it is up to us all to avoid, reduce and make up for the shortcomings it brings. in this sense, and for some of these partners, it is of the utmost importance that the next eu-africa summit, to be held during the portuguese presidency, be consequential. realism with results is preferable to utopias without history.
on behalf of the pse group. these last few years have not given much cause for rejoicing to advocates of arms control and disarmament anchored in multilateral legal instruments. the decision by the un general assembly last december to officially open the process of drafting a global arms trade treaty (att) is indeed a rare occasion for celebration. it is not surprising that the united states of america has voted unopposed against the resolution which gave birth to this process. this treaty is not just about finding a common legal denominator for the import, export and transfer of arms, about giving a global response to a completely globalised trade and about creating uniform criteria which subject arms trade to the imperatives of human rights, stability and sustainable development. it is also a question of mobilizing public opinion in the developed countries against the opacity that defines the legal contracts for the sale of millions of arms to allied countries. the scandalous decision by the uk government to close the latest investigation into the sale of arms from that country to saudi arabia, and the corruption at the highest level that accompanied it, is a paradigmatic example of the sui generis nature of this trade. it is only in this area that a european government dares to stop a serious investigation in the name of the national interest. it is because of the special treatment that the arms trade has received from governments around the world that a treaty is needed that is specifically designed to control it. the european union can and must lead efforts in this area, striving to ensure that the lessons learned from the interpretation and application of its code of conduct, in particular with regard to the criteria of sustainable development and human rights, are applied in the new treaty, because these are two particularly linked aspects, as mrs ferrero-waldner has stressed. in this connection, the conclusions of the last general affairs council, which stress the importance of joining forces with other states and regional organisations in the preparation of a new treaty, are welcomed. the european union now has only to transform this goodwill into a diplomatic strategy towards the att, duly anchored in a common position of the council. until reason and scruples once again honor the white house with their presence, european leadership in this area is particularly urgent.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, rapporteur, draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the report by our colleague, mr rodi kratsa, on the european court of auditors' examination of the meda programme, a european programme covering several countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean. the report in question focuses in particular on community aid to palestine. the court of auditors' audit did not focus on aid to palestine. the only european institution which has carried out a thorough examination of this financial mechanism, the anti-fraud office, has refused to disclose the report it has drawn up, even to the members of the committee on budgetary control alone and even under conditions of confidentiality. we cannot therefore be sure that community funds are being used properly in this country. politically, however, we are faced with a very important dilemma: on the one hand, to ensure development cooperation and the provision of humanitarian aid to populations who are victims of leaders who have little or no concern for their welfare, and on the other hand, to ensure that community funds are not diverted to the purchase of war material, to terrorism or to propaganda and indoctrination campaigns, especially of children, in racism, xenophobia, hatred and suicide bombing, as we have been informed has been the case with funds allocated to lebanon. it is a question of the utmost importance which must be answered with a firm and rigorous policy based on the humanitarian conviction that all human beings have the right to life, regardless of the religion they or their parents profess or the ethnic group to which they belong, that is, a policy which knows how to resist demagogy and a double standard. that is why i warmly welcome the gesture this morning by the israeli authorities of granting safe passage to the west bank to hundreds of palestinian refugees who have been stranded for several days in the tunnels of eretz, fleeing the wave of terror sweeping the territory of gaza. i would also like to make a sincere and fraternal appeal to the israeli and egyptian authorities to ensure that they immediately cooperate fully with the international forces and the new palestinian government appointed by president mahmoud abbas to help the palestinians fleeing the persecution in gaza, which has already cost many lives. i hope that we can continue to count, as we have counted on many times in the past, on echo's help in responding to the tragedy in gaza, without this agency failing to promote the equally urgent humanitarian action in favour of iraqi refugees not only in syria and jordan but also in egypt, lebanon and the various gulf countries. palestine is today the target of the same fanatical ideology which abuses the name of a religion to hide its lust for power and which is also devastating lebanon and iraq. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the meda programme, although a recent instrument, has been showing positive results on the ground on the other side of the mediterranean. but there is still a long way to go before it becomes truly effective and is recognised by the people who benefit from it directly or indirectly. having witnessed meda's work in the gaza strip and the west bank on the ground, i agree with many of the suggestions made by mrs kratsa in this report and i congratulate her on that. i agree that it is necessary to concentrate support and action on specific areas, but we should eventually extend it to other areas which can bear fruit in the short term without major investment, as is the case with microcredit. we are in a phase of change in palestine, which should be a harbinger, in the very near future, of the resumption of international financial aid and, eventually, of the end of the illegal withholding by israel of the customs revenues of a people and a government that are literally strangled, without food, without economic revenues, without a tomorrow to fight for. salam fayad gives us assurances of political competence and responsibility. it is up to us as the european union to provide the means, either by means of the financial aid we channel into that territory or by unblocking the movement of people, goods and services in the west bank territories, since the blockade makes impossible any multiplier effect of this aid. for all this, we need a proactive european union, not just a follower.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his report, and also for the work he has done in the committee on youth, culture, education, information and sport. it should not be forgotten that the root cause of the problem lies in the intensification of neo-liberal policies which have led to the worsening of social and territorial inequalities, to youth unemployment, whose rates are more than double the average unemployment rates, to high levels of poverty and social exclusion due to low wages and the degradation of social benefits, to which is added the weakening of public services and the effect of the precariousness of work on the lives of families and the education of children and adolescents. it is therefore necessary to reverse the policies that have led to this situation and not to continue to insist on the same strategies. the living conditions of families need to be improved so that they can give more attention to children and young people, which requires that workers have more rights, including better wages and shorter working hours without loss of income, and that there are better public services, including education, health, housing and social protection. however, as we know, all this presupposes that there are other guidelines in community and national policies which give priority to people rather than to competition and the profits of economic and financial groups. the values enshrined in the united nations convention on the rights of the child of 20 november 1989 must be promoted, as we propose in the proposals we have tabled. we also stress the importance of specialised training for judges working with minors and for all those working in juvenile courts, so that the emphasis is on prevention before it is too late.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs batzeli on her report, which contains sensible and urgent proposals, including the creation of a european observatory on juvenile delinquency. the increase in juvenile delinquency is a fact which requires an integrated and effective policy at the family, school and social levels, which contributes to the transmission of social and civic values and to the socialisation of young people. at the same time, measures are needed to combat poverty and social exclusion. a society with glaring social inequalities cannot promote social cohesion or prevent juvenile delinquency. the picture of incidents of youth violence in several developed countries, both within and outside the european union, is alarming. what drives hundreds of young people to use violence to draw attention to their problems? it is necessary for families, for governments, for societies as a whole, to ask themselves and see where they have failed and why. the increase in juvenile delinquency is a very serious problem and we have to ask ourselves why 13- and 17-year-olds are driven to abuse and kill defenseless people as a form of entertainment. it's shocking. but it's not enough to denounce and censure. we must act so that we do not come to regret it too late and say as a father of those young people who have had this kind of behaviour: i feel i have failed as a father. experts point to causes, the first of which is lack of follow-up and the second is idleness. without any occupation, without school and without work, young people become irresponsible. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the internal market, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission in its efforts to achieve this. some of these young people have been victims of violence or have been raised in a domestic violence environment, others feel uprooted, socially marginalized, still others follow the examples of violence they see on television. even children's games and cartoons promote violence.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice is an internal objective of the union, but it has an external envelope. the maintenance of our stability and security also depends on how we relate to our neighbours and to the rest of the world, and we must be clear and give clear political signals on this point. that is also why i shall vote against the proposals put forward by the rapporteur to delete references to cia flights in this report. many of the problems we face are common to a large number of other countries. the experience and success or failure of the union in these matters will provide a useful reference point for these countries. we have made enormous progress in many areas and i congratulate vice-president franco frattini once again on the excellent work he has done in the commission. however, much remains to be done in the areas of asylum and immigration, the fight against organised crime and terrorism, border management, visas and police and judicial cooperation. the areas of cooperation with third countries are clearly defined in the hague programme and its action plan. however, answers must be found for specific cases. first, we have the problem of coherence between the pillars. external action in the area of freedom, security and justice is sometimes cross-cutting in nature, covering areas of competence under several pillars. as long as we have this system of having more than one pillar, we need to improve the coordination between the pillars in order to avoid duplication between the various instruments belonging to the area of freedom, security and justice. it is essential that these materials can be introduced as far as possible into the area of the first pillar. secondly, there is the problem of complexity and the internal institutional framework. it is essential to introduce co-decision and qualified majority voting in the areas of legal migration. thirdly, we must strengthen the role of our parliament. parliament has a key role to play in strengthening the democratic accountability of the union's external action and needs to be kept informed of the negotiations on agreements relating to the area of freedom, security and justice. finally, a reference to the common european asylum system and the strengthening of the resources related to frontex.
mr president, i cannot help but refer to the last item and say that it is unacceptable that in this parliament there should be any attempt to curtail the parliamentary and political rights of any of our colleagues who have not had their rights curtailed, either by a decision of this parliament or by a judicial decision in their country. we cannot accept this kind of political persecution of a man, mr díaz de mera, who has a remarkable record in fighting crime and defending justice as a professional in his member state and who has done remarkable work as a member of this parliament. the report we are debating today is further proof of the political ability and rigor which mr díaz de mera has shown in his parliamentary work and which has also characterized his entire professional life. i would also like to say to mr frattini that i support everything he has said about the council's attitude. this is an urgent and important measure and it would be expected that the council would have gone further, both in terms of confidence between the member states and in terms of involving this parliament. in any event, i share all that other colleagues have said about the need to know accurately the criminal record and that the transmission of this information between member states is an added value in the fight against crime, whether in identifying suspects, in supporting criminal investigations or in determining the severity of the penalty. i would like to conclude by saying that i also share the view of those who believe that the council should move faster, in particular in adopting the framework decision on procedural guarantees for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings and the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar, for which mrs roure is rapporteur, which is another essential element in compensating for legislative measures in this area.
mr president, mr vice-president frattini, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to join my colleague gaubert in his greeting to mrs martine roure. she is a member of parliament who has accustomed us to high-quality work and has once again proved that, as well as her tenacity, as mr catania has said. crimes of a racist nature remain a constant and persistent problem in all member states. the first step should always be prevention. it is necessary to seek to prevent racism and xenophobia through an education policy which should be initiated as early as possible and through a political and social discourse aimed at preventing the spread of hatred and the spread of xenophobic and racist reactions. the figures presented by the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia confront us with this reality in the european union. while it is important to recognize that member states have legislation in place, it is also necessary to point out that the differences are very great and that harmonization is urgently needed. this framework decision is therefore welcome, as it involves a certain degree of harmonisation of the member states' criminal law and the improvement of mutual assistance in the fight against racism and xenophobia. with this initiative, the european parliament is making its recommendations and taking its position on a subject on which, it must be admitted, it has been much more consistent than the council.
i would like to congratulate mr pirker and tell him, with less authority than our colleague manfred weber will certainly have in the future, that the epp will naturally support his report which contributes to improving cooperation and the decision-making process on asylum policy. i congratulate vice-president frattini on his speech and i can only say that this is a matter which reflects the difficulty we have in making decisions. in an area without frontiers, in an area of free movement, asylum is perhaps the easiest example to illustrate the need for harmonization between member states and the creation of a common system. the truth is that we are talking about a horizon of 2010 and, strictly speaking, we should already have a common asylum system in place. i know that this is a very difficult and sensitive subject, in which the strategy of the lowest common denominator has been adopted, that is, a strategy of levelling down which ultimately allows for differences between member states and the maintenance of the so-called 'asylum shopping'. i would like to make three brief references to questions which i consider essential. firstly, i think it is necessary to create a single procedure throughout the european union to ensure that decisions are taken quickly and are properly reasoned and fair. secondly, i would stress that the quality of decisions depends on the quality of information, as the commissioner has said. it is therefore necessary to ensure the best possible procedure both in the collection of information and in its transmission. finally, i believe that we must strengthen cooperation between the member states, which also means tackling the problem of solidarity and burden-sharing.
the report by mr jean-claude fruteau (a6-0172/2007) on the appeal in the field of public procurement is reproduced below (com (2006) 0195 - c6-0141/2006 - 2006/0066 (cod)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the report (a6-0191/2007) by mrs zuzana roithová, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on consumer confidence in the digital environment (2006/2048 (ini)) is reproduced below.
mr president, i would like to table an amendment which has been agreed with our rapporteur, mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou. this amendment is intended to replace the current no 38 with the following text: welcomes the council decision of 18 june asking the eu to resume normal relations with the palestinian authority immediately and to this end to develop the conditions for urgent, practical and financial assistance, including direct financial support to the new government, as well as to ensure the provision of emergency and humanitarian assistance to the population of gaza;
in writing. 200 words are not enough to express what would be required in relation to the whole range of issues raised by this report, all the more so in the face of the tragic and complex situation in the occupied palestinian territories (opt). however, we would like to stress the following points: - it whitewashes israeli aggression against the palestinian people, as well as the israeli authorities' total disregard for international law; - i know . it whitewashes the european union's responsibility for the collapse of the palestinian authority, in particular through its participation in the boycott of the pa since 2006, which has continued to be implemented despite all the efforts and agreements reached for the creation of a palestinian national unity government. the creation of the 'temporary international mechanism' was not intended to prevent the collapse of palestinian institutions, nor did it prevent the worsening of the humanitarian crisis facing millions of palestinians in the occupied territories. - i know . it whitewashes the continuing deterioration of the situation in the opt which is the consequence of 40 years of israeli occupation - with the complicity of the usa and its allies - and its policy of not recognizing the legitimate and inalienable right of the palestinian people to an independent, sovereign and viable state, in accordance with the relevant un resolutions.
in writing. the question that inevitably arises when we discuss the subject of this report is what the european union's financial aid to palestine should be used for, what strategy it should follow. i believe that there are three certainties that must be part of this response: support for the people, encouragement of the organization of a future palestinian state in terms that are clearly democratic and respectful of human rights and, finally, promotion of peace. as regards the past, the results of the investigations of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) cannot leave us in a good mood. 'according to the information available so far in the olaf press release, there is no evidence of armed actions or illegal activities financed by ec contributions to the palestinian authority.' however, it is also known that 'there are ... serious indications that support the hypothesis that part of the funds of the palestinian authority have been used by some people for purposes other than those for which they were intended'. eu support must be visible, recognised and effective in achieving these objectives. unfortunately, it is not certain that this was the result of our initiatives. although it is fair to say that the eu's role in that region is essentially positive.
in writing. the resolution proposed by the committee on development of the european parliament is both relevant and meaningful, and it illustrates, by a few examples, what has long been known, namely that the stated objectives are often in contradiction with the policies and measures implemented. the parliamentary committee points out that, in the context of the 'regional strategy paper 2007-2013' and the 'multiannual indicative programme for asia' proposed by the european commission, and in view of the regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation - which states that 'the primary and fundamental objective of cooperation under this regulation is the eradication of poverty in partner countries and regions in the context of sustainable development' - it is not understood, for example, that 'in the context of support to the association of southeast asian nations (asean), the stated objectives of the institutional support programme and dialogue between regions' include support for 'eventual negotiations for the conclusion and implementation of an eu-asean free trade agreement'. it is not clear how this intention fits in with the overriding objective of poverty eradication in the context of official development assistance. just the tip of the iceberg.
in writing. the united nations general assembly adopted a resolution last december which initiated a process which is intended to lead to the creation of an arms trade treaty. this resolution was supported by 153 countries, with the us being the only un member state to vote against the creation of the treaty. as our group in this house has pointed out - and as the 2007 sipri annual report shows - world military expenditure in 2006 was usd 1 104 billion in current prices, an increase of 3.5% on 2005, and the same expenditure increased by 37% between 1997 and 2006. in the context of this very dangerous development, there is a succession of situations which also show that the illegal arms trade has increased considerably (see the alleged payment of over £1 billion in bribes by bae systems, with the consent of the british ministry of defence, to saudi prince bandar bin sultan). however, it must be stressed that the regulation of arms trade will be more relevant if it is accompanied by a process of multilateral and reciprocal disarmament, in particular the dismantling of the huge nuclear arsenals.
in writing. my agreement with the contents of this report is substantive. states have the right and the duty to defend their populations and to guarantee the peace and integrity of their territories. on the contrary, illegal, irresponsible and unethical trade is one of the main factors in promoting conflict, war and death. the arms trade, which lacks an international code to prevent it and to condemn those who practice it, demands our active and consistent repudiation. in the future, but also today. even if the tax code at international level does not yet exist, the eu member states and our allies should not be less demanding and rigorous in this matter. there are values that cannot be compromised.
in writing. we abstained in the final vote on the report because our most important proposals were not included, namely the following: - stresses the importance of specialised training (initial and continuing) for judges working with juvenile offenders and the placement of experts from other areas in juvenile courts so that they can intervene in good time. we believe that it is necessary to give greater value and visibility to the rights of children and we think it is useful to encourage harmful intervention in the cases of young offenders, in particular by suspending the process with the implementation of behaviour plans for the child, involving him and his parents or legal representatives. we know that in most cases there are socioeconomic reasons for the phenomenon of juvenile delinquency, and that it is therefore necessary to improve the living conditions of families so that they can give more attention to children and young people. we therefore advocate a commitment to prevention rather than to legal action, as the epp tried to do, which, although it did not fully achieve its objectives, worsened the initial report.
in writing. the latest commission communication on this issue advocates a coherent approach, undertaken in collaboration with the countries of origin of immigration, in particular illegal immigration. it is a correct approach, which we welcome. in parallel - as an integral part of this policy - channels must be created to facilitate legal immigration, either by making the risks of illegal immigration and its consequences known, or by making legal channels simple and transparent. however, this perspective also implies the need to invest in creating employment opportunities in these countries. otherwise, as long as there is misery on one side and an attraction factor on the other (the possibility of getting a job), there will always be immigration, illegal if you cannot get in in another way. finally, in this context, the question of the need for reinforced and renewed cooperation with the mediterranean countries arises, not only because of immigration but also because of the need to improve the quality of life in the mediterranean.
in writing. asylum applications are increasing every day throughout the union. the desperation of many has shown us tragic consequences. it is of the utmost importance to the eu to establish common rules to avoid a repetition of such situations and to create conditions for mutual assistance within the union, since the pressures on states differ, often due to their geographical location. the establishment of a common european asylum system must therefore be based on three main pillars: the introduction of a harmonised procedure, the sharing of information on countries of origin and the strengthening of cooperation between member states in order to assist those member states which are under the greatest pressure. it is therefore necessary to promote the interrelationship between the authorities of the member states, with the ultimate aim of improving the quality of the decision-making process, which should be faster, fairer and more reliable. only then can we aim for a common asylum system by 2010.
the expression of a genuine desire for dialogue based on the european union's respect for cuba was what should actually be on the table in the european parliament. in our view, the establishment of an open dialogue on all matters of mutual interest naturally requires that the obstacles which have been created to make it difficult or even impossible be removed. this means demanding the definitive lifting of the sanctions imposed by the european union in 2003, which are now temporarily suspended, and the definitive lifting of the european union's common position on cuba. these measures would effectively open the way to the normalisation of relations between the european union and that country. however, this is not the choice of those who forced this debate onto the agenda of the european parliament, the same people who signed the motion for a resolution put to the vote today. its aim is to promote the isolation of cuba, in line with the unacceptable blockade imposed on cuba by the us administration. the aim is to promote blatant and unreserved interference in the internal situation of this country, seeking to impose, by external pressure, decisions which only the cuban people have the sovereign right to take. but reality shows that the best response to such intentions is the broad prestige, the deep significance that this country has and the active solidarity towards cuba and its people on the part of millions and millions of human beings all over the world.
author. – madam president, i headed the eu election observation mission in ethiopia in 2005. at that time, opposition leaders warned the eu that the elections would be another scam by prime minister meles zenawi to fool the international community and that they all would end up in jail or killed. we, the eu, persuaded them not to boycott the elections, promising to watch and ensure accountability. the ethiopians believed us and voted massively and in an orderly manner. however, when people protested peacefully against electoral fraud, government forces resorted to brutal repression. in june and november, hundreds were killed in massacres and thousands were wounded and imprisoned, including the leaders who had warned the eu. they are among the 38 political prisoners found guilty on 11 june of this year in a farcical trial in which they were not able to present their defences. sentences are due next july, possibly carrying the death penalty, against some of the most representative, articulate and courageous leaders of ethiopia – elected members of parliament, human rights defenders, journalists, activists for development, teachers and other prisoners of conscience. professor mesfin woldemariam, aged 77, the respected founder of the ethiopian human rights council, is one of them. the eu is the main donor of aid in ethiopia. i have seen the difference it makes there. it can do it again if the commission, council and member states stop turning a blind eye. they must act immediately, holding the government of ethiopia accountable to human rights commitments under the cotonou agreement, holding prime minister meles zenawi personally responsible and pressing for the release of the prisoners without delay and unconditionally. they must follow the recommendations made by this parliament in several resolutions, including the one we will approve today, not to further let down the ethiopian people, not to further discredit europe’s commitment towards development in africa and not to further betray our basic values of democracy and human rights.
mr president, i too congratulate you, mrs angela merkel, not only on the way you have carried out your presidency of the union, but also on the good results of the last council. i'm portuguese, i don't speak german, which i'm sorry, but i'm able to say... the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european council has reached what it could have reached, a realistic compromise, in the words of jacques delors. it wasn't easy. the heterogeneity of problems and the diversity of interests favour national selfishness. the agreement was reached because of the determination, the negotiating capacity and the sense of responsibility of some european leaders, but not all, as is well known. however, the road to the finish line is still long and bumpy. in these complex group writing processes it is easy to stumble over a comma and over a word. as my prime minister, josé sócrates, said, we have a mandate, not a treaty. the treaty requires the cooperation of all - the council, the commission and the european parliament. the convergence of efforts will be essential. in view of the complex international context and the legacy of the german presidency, i am sure that the portuguese presidency will do its best to live up to the mandate entrusted to it.
in writing. the mandate for the intergovernmental conference (igc) on the reform of the treaties, defined at the last european council under the german presidency, confirms what we have long been denouncing, namely that those who did not accept the results of the referendums held in france and the netherlands - who rejected the content of the so-called 'european constitution' - almost immediately began to plot ways of circumventing the sovereignly expressed will of these two peoples. the mandate for the cig speaks for itself. the aim is to recover the essential content of the draft treaty which has already been rejected - overcoming the contradictions, especially those of those who, committed to holding referendums, now seek to avoid them - by disguising it as a 'reform treaty' and setting aside its 'constitutional character' to better disguise the operation. those who repeat to the end that the new draft treaty is imbued with democracy are, after all, the same people who, once again, are preparing the way to avoid the holding of binding national referendums before any ratification of a new draft treaty, a fact all the more serious as it is an attempt to recover the qualitative leap in the federalist, neoliberal and militarist project embodied in the rejected 'european constitution'. we can say that this is a doubly unacceptable process!
i would like to welcome the demonstration of portuguese workers organized by their trade union centre, the cgtp-in, on 5 july in guimarães and express my solidarity with their courageous and generous struggle against the new measures which are intended to facilitate unjustified dismissals, deregulation and arbitrariness in the fixing of working conditions, the weakening of collective bargaining and the attack on the organization of workers, particularly trade unions. the commission's proposal is to be rejected, and i would like to ask the house to support it. i would like to ask the commission to accept the proposal that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. a continuous and selfless struggle which will lead, following the great general strike of 30 may, to thousands of public administration workers demonstrating next thursday and many thousands more workers participating in the demonstration scheduled for 18 october in lisbon.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how many amateur or professional cooks in europe or elsewhere have thought that the excessive use of flavourings can be harmful to health? very few, certainly. how many of us who enjoy the taste of oregano or cloves could imagine that in some extreme cases flavoring food could be dangerous? probably not anyone. and yet, experts say that there can be food poisoning and allergies if the use of flavorings does not meet consumer standards. consumers know, and if they do not know, they should know, that the consumption of chemical ingredients is not the same as the ingestion of natural products, and it is also known from experience that synthetic, chemical and industrial products are, as a rule, more affordable than natural ones. it is therefore necessary to inform consumers of the characteristics of flavourings and to regulate the sector. the regulations proposed by the commission and these reports are precisely in that direction. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the commission and the rapporteurs, mrs westlund, mrs doyle and mrs murko, on the work they have done and on their cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, in particular mrs murko, for whom i was the socialist party shadow rapporteur. defending public health, informing and protecting consumers are objectives which should guide all european policies. the proposal for a regulation is welcome in this respect, since it aims to update the rules on the use of flavourings to take account of technological and scientific developments in this field. the new legislation lays down clearer rules on maximum levels of substances with toxic characteristics to take account of recent scientific advice from the european food safety authority. more precise definitions are laid down for flavourings, and stricter conditions are introduced for the use of the term 'natural' in the description of flavourings. we believe that the european parliament's contribution is in line with the need for further clarification and harmonization of legislation in the field of flavourings. will the new rules make consumers more informed and protected, without harming the industry? so it's all in the benefits. the creation of a clear framework allows innovation and enables new technological developments, and the european industry itself can maintain its leading position in the field of flavourings. positive effects on public health are thus expected.
i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council, mr frattini, and the german presidency for the efforts they have made in concluding this pnr agreement. it was necessary to avoid the legal vacuum which would put european companies in difficulty and weaken the guarantees for our citizens. we have always advocated the existence of an international agreement at the level of the european union rather than 27 bilateral agreements, because the union can have a stronger position not only in preventing and combating terrorism but also in protecting fundamental rights. the ppe group therefore supported the granting of a mandate to the commission to enable it to resume negotiations. we know that these were difficult negotiations and we also know that the desire for a mutually acceptable solution was stronger on the european side than on the american side. i regret, however, that this agreement is made up of three parts: one agreement and two letters, and that they are not all equally binding. there are a number of aspects which have developed positively and vice-president frattini referred to a number of them, but there are others which have fallen far short of our expectations. i 'll highlight it like this: firstly, i welcome the reduction in the number of pnr data; i welcome the switch from the pool system to the push system which has just been mentioned. we know that there are 13 airlines that have already implemented the system, but many others have not yet. i would like to know what kind of initiatives the commission is preparing to help and encourage airlines to make this change. i still do not accept what i consider to be an excessive length of time for data storage conditions. i welcome the introduction of the obligation to properly inform passengers and welcome the passenger redress mechanisms which provide for the possibility of reviewing and correcting data held by the us authorities, although there remains no sound legal mechanism to allow european citizens to have recourse in the event of incorrect use of their personal data. i am afraid that the additional measures for the protection of sensitive data are not sufficient and i regret that the use of data by other american agencies is not fully guaranteed. much has been done, commissioner, but much remains to be done and i hope that the monitoring mechanism you have agreed will make it possible to correct some of the negative aspects that still remain.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr ferber, on the quality of his report, but also mr simpson on his commitment to extending the deadline for opening up and ensuring the operation and financing of the universal service. the last stage of postal liberalisation was far from achieving a competitive market where the biggest winners were consumers, workers and businesses. the commission's approach in its proposal did not sufficiently guarantee the universality of the service, nor did it clarify the way in which it would be financed, so it supported mr simpson in his view that the commission should present studies on the costs of public service obligations to be carried out at national level, on the rules for financing the universal service, adapted to the different characteristics of the states and their regions, including the outermost regions, where the costs of providing these services are usually higher. it is only after the commission has given its approval that the opening of the postal service for less than 50 grams should be used and hence support the commitment to fix the date of december 2010, or december 2012 for the new member states, or, as i would like for all, december 2011. other possibilities expressed in amendments still before the house also merited my support, because opening up without safeguarding the public service and its operation would be a bad step for employment, growth and the maintenance of the universal service. i would like to reiterate, however, that the approval of a new date in tomorrow's vote, on the basis of a compromise, possibly with some supplementary amendment, is fundamental to the development of these services.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr protasiewicz, on his efforts. however, i must say that the report as it is presented to us is unbalanced. it is unbalanced because it covers, above all, the aspects of social protection - which are certainly important - but it ignores the other fundamental perspective for a reform of labour laws for the 21st century, which must address greater flexibility in the functioning of labour markets. second, the text rests on a very conservative view still fueled by a culture based on mistrust and conflict. what we need today is the opposite: a culture based on trust and cooperation between the parties. this paradigm shift, which is absolutely necessary if we are to reconcile the values of social justice and human dignity with increased competitiveness, is not taken up in this report. it would be essential that this balance, which is absent from the text of the report, be clearly expressed, because this would be the way to encourage changes in behaviour and attitudes on the part of companies and workers in order to increase levels of confidence. in short, the text of this report is somewhat disappointing, because it does not show that today's europe has the character, the talent and the capacity to become more competitive, while at the same time showing that it is capable of preserving the values which are representative of its social model. the truth is that the text in question shows no signs of rupture and shows no talent or capacity for reform. the european people's party has therefore tabled a number of amendments which, if accepted, will ensure that this report does not become a lost opportunity.
in writing. under the 2005 act of accession of bulgaria and romania, a simplified system has been established allowing their accession to conventions and protocols concluded on the basis of article 34 teu or article 293 tec, thereby eliminating the need to negotiate and conclude specific accession protocols to these conventions and thus reducing the huge bureaucracy that would be the need for ratification by the 27 member states. a list of seven conventions and protocols on justice and home affairs, which contain this convention, is therefore set out in the annex thereto. i welcome these kinds of initiatives which aim to reduce bureaucracy at community level and the excessive expenditure of time on such simple matters as this. i therefore support this council decision determining the date from which the convention of 26 july 1995 on the use of information technology in customs matters and the protocols thereto should enter into force in bulgaria and romania.
in writing. respect for the official languages of each member state of the european union is enshrined in its treaties. however, the idea is promoted that some translations are dispensable, using the financial issue as an argument and appealing to the need to define priorities and restrictions such as, for example, the length of the documents. we do not accept these guidelines because they are contrary to respect for multilingualism. we therefore reiterate our firm rejection of any attempt to limit the use of any official (and working) language in the eu on the grounds of high costs, as exemplified, as we have pointed out in due course, by the current criteria for determining the languages used during eu-acp parliamentary assemblies, which make the use of portuguese unfeasible in a discriminatory manner. we also reject the reduction in the number of interpreters and translators and the precarious or degrading working conditions for them in parliament, the commission and the council, on the pretext of fraudulent budgetary arguments, and the promotion of the outsourcing of these services, which are essential for the proper functioning of these institutions and for ensuring access to relevant information in their mother tongue for citizens of the various member states of the european union.
in writing. the establishment of a common framework for action to protect europe's critical infrastructures once again brings us face to face with the central question of the transfer of competences which are at the heart of the sovereignty of states to the eu. the definition at community level of the protection of these infrastructures, in the name of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', will place the member states before the responsibility of implementing binding measures, as is, moreover, referred to in the justification for this proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it should also be stressed, as recent events have shown, that under the pretext of the so-called 'fight against terrorism' measures have been implemented which undermine the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. we hope that the concept of 'protecting europe's critical infrastructure' will not be used as an argument to curb the legitimate struggle of workers to defend their rights.
in writing. this is another step towards the liberalisation of the internal gas and electricity market in the wake of the lisbon strategy. the key words in this report are 'liberalisation' and 'market'. the basic idea of leaving is always the same. the premise that the market will solve the problem of energy supply and consumption by itself, which has already been refuted by numerous examples, is being defended with increasing fervor in an attempt to hide the fact that it is increasingly difficult to ignore that the 'market' has only worked for a few, with the accumulation of fabulous profits, but not for consumers, who are faced with the increasing price increase in the energy bill. the energy sector, as a strategic sector of a country, is vital to its independence and sovereignty. subordinating it to national and transnational private interests is an affront to the sovereignty of peoples, to the rights of workers and of the population. we therefore reject once again the liberalization of gas and electricity and advocate their retention in the public sector as the only guarantee of access to a continuous, quality and affordable service.
in writing. animal proteins are not part of the natural diet - emphasis is placed on 'natural' - of, for example, an adult bovine. many seem to forget - or pretend to forget - the consequences of the mad cow crisis - bse - on human and animal health, as well as the socioeconomic consequences underlying the intensive production model that gave rise to it. this report aims to lift the embargo on the use of fishmeal and fish oil in feedingstuffs to ruminants. the aim is to increase the profits of the agro-industry and the large farmers even further. this intention deserves our rejection. not only because this measure is part of the promotion of intensive production and the verticalisation of agricultural production, and would encourage industrial fishing for the production of fishmeal and fish oil for feeding, in particular, ruminants - in a context of shortage of fishery resources, where these should be better exploited for human food purposes - but above all because risks to human and animal health continue to exist. we therefore consider it imperative to apply the precautionary principle. we therefore regret that our proposal to reject the lifting of the current ban has been rejected.
mr president, the daily examples we know of the exploitation of workers in portugal and other countries of the european union, such as the netherlands and romania, also involving portuguese workers, demonstrate that, in the name of modernising labour law, they want to facilitate dismissals by changing the notice periods, the costs and procedures applicable to individual and collective dismissals, the very definition of individual dismissal without just cause in order to destroy the current contractual ties. they also want to change the timing and organization of work, with all the consequences of attacking collective bargaining itself and the organization of workers. by putting employers and workers on the same side of the balance sheet of the contractual provisions of a so-called modern work organization, they undervalue the need to protect secure employment and the rights of the most fragile link in the employment relationship: the workers who need the work and the wage to survive. as demonstrated in guimarães on 5 july, the workers are fighting against these serious proposals.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate our colleague mr protasiewicz on having succeeded, with our help, in transforming his initial report into a report for parliament. i would also like to say a few words to mr christensen, who has organized a structured and collective contribution by the socialist party. the report integrates key aspects of the current european debate, such as the question of flexicurity, and i would point out that flexicurity can only be achieved through an efficient and modern labour law and that collective bargaining and the existence of social partners are an important part of the approach to flexicurity. the call for member states to review and adapt social security systems to complement active labour market policies, including training and lifelong learning, is also important. i was pleased to table a number of amendments, in particular on the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises as an important driver of job creation and growth in europe, as well as for social and regional development, and the importance of strengthening the role of smes in improving labour legislation. better coordination between national labour legislation and social inspectorates is also important. this is essential if we are to be able to fight more effectively against the exploitation of immigrant labour. and we must also recognize the need to establish working arrangements, working hours, sufficiently flexible to meet the needs of workers and the companies or institutions where they work. in this context, it is also important to mention and emphasise that all workers should be entitled to the same level of protection and that certain groups should not be excluded from a higher level of protection from the outset, such as seafarers, ship workers and offshore workers. before concluding, i must stress the european parliament's call on the member states to eliminate restrictions on access to their labour markets and thus improve the mobility of workers within the european union, thus contributing to a faster achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate willy piecyk on the excellent work he has done over the past few months. he was a good listener, a good balancer of perspectives and, above all, a good advocate of a holistic and constructive approach to maritime strategy. that is also the view i defended as shadow rapporteur for the epp. it is thus proved that a balance can develop the economy and safeguard the environment, and that a fragmented view of the sea and the oceans is a view without dimension or ambition. the sea, which is the place of globalization par excellence, is of central importance to us europeans. the fact that the growth of world trade will increase maritime transport and consequently develop many of the economies of the sea is an advantage for us to think on a european scale, but in our view this does not mean a single common policy. what is desirable is a strategic approach that takes advantage of the potential for cooperation between the 27 member states, cooperation that takes into account the costs of combating illegal immigration, pollution, drug trafficking and smuggling or the fight for the security of european territory, intelligent cooperation in favour of the marine environment, which is in the interest of environmentalists as much as those who give priority to the economy. pollution is a threat to nature but it is also a risk to the economic benefits we can derive from the sea and the oceans. balance must therefore be the key word. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this respect, it is essential to look at the potential of the sea and the oceans in the context of investment in research and development, while also preserving tradition. if we want to modernise our economy, we must fund networks of scientists, promote the sharing of knowledge, be the first in new economies and new industries, but also seriously invest in the tourist destination of europe's coasts, which is a heritage of incomparable richness and diversity. i would like to conclude, madam president, by expressing the hope that it will be possible to set sail, as from tomorrow, towards the definition and implementation of coherent proposals on european maritime policy, which is what we have heard from commissioner borg here today.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, rapporteurs, rapporteur, i would like to congratulate you on the excellent work you have done and would like to highlight six key concerns to be taken into account in the implementation of the european policy for the seas and oceans: to ensure that existing and new legislation is integrated into a single framework; that management is also integrated in the context of a maritime planning that takes into account all the interests involved; that the sea is integrated into existing environmental legislation, in particular by complying with international conventions such as the ospar convention; that management is put into practice based on marine ecosystems; that the development of fishing communities is promoted with the same approach as has been successfully developed in the rural area; that an integrated framework is created for the monitoring and enforcement of this legislation in the seas. the european maritime policy cannot repeat the mistakes of the common fisheries policy, which has created a disconnect between the design of policies and their beneficiaries on the one hand, and the costs of their implementation and control on the other. in a region like the azores, for example, the implementation of the marine strategy directive has costs that can amount to many millions of euros. we think that europe must act in an integrated way here, also from the financial point of view.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, and dear comrade piecyk, thank you very much for your report. as you say in your report, the sectoral and isolated policies we have today do not meet the challenges of this new century in terms of a sea policy, and we must give the european union an integrated vision that offers solutions in a horizontal and global way. solutions for improving the quality of life in coastal areas, for building structures and developing the transport sector, for preserving the seabed and marine resources, for creating partnerships and centres of excellence aimed at sustainable management of the oceans and seas in the union of 27. the seas must be protected and enhanced in a common, shared way, in order to promote and ensure sustainable tourism, a balanced fisheries policy, a more environmentally friendly maritime transport sector, and the conscious and effective preservation of this essential element which is the sea. climate change, pollution, urban pressure on coastal areas, the lack of treatment of water that flows into our seas are all matters that must receive our particular attention, study and common concern, in order to ensure the maintenance of a healthy marine ecosystem. it is essential to combine these concerns with innovation and new energy resources that we can extract from the seas with energy from the waves and the creation of centres of excellence dedicated to the study of the oceans. to do this, we must bring the sea, maritime culture and education about the sea closer to the european citizens, bring them closer to their origins, involve the island regions which are naturally linked to the seas, but we must urgently work towards the cohesion of maritime factors in the reality of the continental european coastal regions, par excellence and tradition... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would first of all like to thank mr willi piecyk for his excellent report, but also for his willingness to receive and integrate contributions which would clarify, broaden the scope and also give new efficiency to european maritime policy. as an island and outermost maritime region, my contributions aimed to ensure that the importance of the octs in the definition and effective implementation of maritime policy is properly recognised, due to their geographical position and their extensive knowledge of oceans and seas and the consequent shared responsibility between the european union and the octs. improved management and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, enhancement of coastal areas through careful coastal planning and specific measures to develop a comprehensive coastal policy, support for environmentally friendly maritime transport, including through the development of an effective european port strategy adapted to the characteristics of european zones, support for marine research, particularly in the field of medicine, energy and marine resources in general, promotion of social rights, taking into account the international labour organisation, in order to ensure excellent visibility and, finally, vocational training for the maritime sector, working at sea or working on land, and ensuring that tourism, as one of the main economic activities linked to the seas and oceans, is duly taken into account.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the question period is now over (b6-0133/2007). the following questions were put to the commission. first part at the request of commissioner verheugen, question time will begin with question no 28.
question no 28 by catherine stihler (h-0493/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: consultation on the provision of information to patients can the commission indicate how it intends to formally consult consumer organisations for the preparation of the report on current practice on patient information as provided for in article 88a of directive 2004/27/ec oj l 136, 30.4.2004, p. 34?: 'within three years of the entry into force of directive 2004/726/ec, the commission shall, after consulting patient, consumer, medical and pharmaceutical organisations in the member states and other interested parties, submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on current information practices, including through the internet, and on the risks and benefits to the patient of such practices'?
question no 26 by brian crowley (h-0467/07) subject: fight against youth and longterm unemployment in the eaeu what steps has the commission taken this year to combat youth and longterm unemployment in the european union and to ensure that unemployed eu citizens have access to quality training in information technology?
question no 27 by olle schmidt (h-0487/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: refuge for persecuted writers and journalists the european union has an obligation to support open debate in closed societies and dictatorships. in too many countries, however, freedom of expression continues to be associated with the risk of one's life. all over the world, journalists and writers are persecuted, kidnapped and murdered. freedom of expression is important for dictatorships to give way to open and democratic societies. the commission could send a clear signal of the importance of freedom of expression by offering temporary refuge to writers and journalists persecuted following restrictions on freedom of expression. the danish government has recently proposed a measure to this effect. is the commission prepared to take the initiative to offer refuge in the european union to writers threatened with persecution as a result of restrictions on freedom of expression?
question no 29 by stavros arnaoutakis (h-0500/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: risk of extinction of fish stocks in the aegean sea according to published scientific studies, fish stocks in the aegean sea are declining dangerously, putting fishing areas at risk of depletion. this situation is aggravated by the lack of effective measures for the sustainable management of fishing activities and by the uncontrolled use of fishing gear and practices that significantly damage the ecosystems of spawning/renewal areas of fisheries reserves. the european commission has the immediate task of protecting this region against the development of these phenomena, on the one hand to maintain at least the reserves and on the other to protect the coastal fishermen who live from fishing. how does the commission intend to deal with this serious problem?
question no 30 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0452/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: protection of children's rights in the uae's external relations commission communication on a european strategy for the rights of the child published on 4 july 2006 considers, in the context of the 'global situation' thematic unit, that some 300 000 children are fighting as soldiers in more than 30 armed conflicts worldwide. although it would be desirable if the issue of child soldiers were resolved and if the extreme situations of violation of their rights had decreased, the international press frequently refers to the phenomenon of recruitment of child soldiers with concrete examples in africa and asia. how does the commission view the use of child soldiers in military operations in its external relations? what concrete measures do you propose to take to make the fight against the military recruitment of children a priority of your political agenda in your relations with countries which force children to take part in military operations? how will the commission encourage the application of the protocol to the united nations convention on the rights of the child so that states respect the condition that they refrain from recruiting persons under 18 years of age to receive military training and to participate in armed conflict?
question no 31 by mr bernd posselt (h-0460/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: strategy for the black sea region what is the status of the eu's external strategy for the development of the black sea region and what role do issues related to human rights, security and external energy policy play in this context?
question no 32 by mr kirilov (h-0479/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation of bulgarian nurses and palestinian doctor in libya can the commission inform us of the current situation of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor in libya, following the recent visit to that country by commissioner benita ferrero-waldner and german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier? can the commission draw some conclusions from this situation and present a political analysis of how the negotiations with the libyan authorities should continue to be conducted?
question no 35 by mr papastamkos (h-0453/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: nuclear energy in the balkans what projects have been submitted to the commission concerning the construction of new nuclear power stations in the eu member states of the balkan peninsula and in south-eastern europe in general? given the gradual closure of the reactors at the kozloduy plant and the simultaneous construction in belene, what is the energy map of the region? in view of the concerns raised by the history of intense and strong seismic activity in the region, does the commission consider that nuclear energy is the right and responsible strategic solution to meet the energy needs of the countries in the region?
question no 36 by mr papadimoulis (h-0474/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: maintenance of fuel stocks in greece the greek competition commission, by its decision 334/v/2007 adopted after examining the petroleum products market, put forward a series of measures and proposals in which it makes particular reference to the maintenance of reserves. the greek competition commission had already identified problems with the reservation system in a public consultation: 'the current legal regime for the maintenance of safety reserves effectively prevents the import of petroleum products and therefore competition at the refining level is limited to the two local refining units. this is because they do not face strong competitive pressures from (lower) import prices, which means that the two local refineries charge fuel companies in greece higher prices than in other eu member states despite the low cost of crude oil that local refining companies benefit from.' has the greek government adopted the measures proposed by the greek competition commission? what is the commission's view of the existing reserve system and the proposed solutions? does the commission intend to urge the greek government to adopt the above and other proposals to strengthen competition?
question no 37 by mr vincas paleckis (h-0480/07) subject: the right of asylum for refugees subject: the druzhba pipeline in july last year, russia suspended the supply of oil to lithuania and latvia through the "družba" pipeline. for almost a year now we have had no official information about the reasons for the suspension and the prospects of resuming supplies. russia justifies this by the fact that the economic and technical study on the repair of the 'družba' pipeline is still ongoing, at the end of which it will be established whether it is profitable for russia to repair the pipeline or whether a new pipeline should be built unečia velikije luki primorsk. according to the experts, the russian government has already made the political decision to abandon the "družba" pipeline, as the new pipeline would offer russia the possibility of not having to transit oil through belarusian and polish territory and instead transport it directly to the european union through the port of primorsk on the baltic sea. this runs counter to the eu's strategy of transporting less oil by sea to avoid negative ecological consequences and will have significant consequences for the oil supply of eight states, including six eu member states, namely lithuania, poland, hungary, slovakia, the czech republic and germany. in march, eu heads of state and government declared that the aim of energy policy was to ensure the security of supply of eu member states with energy sources and the diversification of their infrastructure. the closure of the druzhba pipeline will be a clear failure of this european policy. what concrete measures does the commission intend to take to remedy this situation? what are the forecasts and recommendations of the network of energy security correspondents (nesco)?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.10 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
the report under discussion today contains aspects which reflect the demands of the major private interests which are at the origin of the liberalisation and privatisation of the public rail transport service promoted at european union level and which we reject. we believe that the report should instead denounce the fact that in the countries of the european union there is a dismantling of the public service and public undertakings, the closure of branch lines and stations, the reduction of services and the number of trains, the sharp reduction in the number of railway workers and the increase in precarious work in this sector. we believe that the report should also promote the public rail service by means of strong public undertakings with all their assets, effective management ensuring high levels of quality of service and safety standards, guaranteeing a public rail service of high quality, capacity and comfort at social prices, fully responding to the needs of people's mobility and the transport of goods, securing the jobs of workers in the sector by promoting their integration into the actual workforce of the companies, giving dignity to careers and wages and ensuring continuing training.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, starting from the fundamental premise that the relationship between the european union and china is of strategic and decisive political importance, we must design this relationship in the commercial field by subordinating it to two principles which were very well stated by the commissioner: on the one hand, to bet on cooperation and, on the other, to never fail to maintain a very demanding attitude in the relationship with china. our trade relations with china are extremely asymmetrical. it is not just our most immediate interests that are at stake, but our core values of preserving the environment, respecting labour rights and ensuring the protection of some fundamental social issues. it is in this perspective that we must establish a permanent dialectic between the effort of cooperation with an emerging great power, which is absolutely fundamental to the balance of the international system. so we cannot have a closed-minded attitude towards china. on the contrary, we cannot be closed to a market which is growing and which is opening up new opportunities, which we must of course take advantage of. we must also be demanding in this respect, in terms of opening up these markets and respecting, for example, intellectual property rights. at the same time, the european union must take a very demanding stance on fundamental questions which are linked to some of the core principles of our economic, social and political organisation. this requires, in fact, this balancing act (and i believe this is the effort which the european commission has been making in adopting the trade defence instruments at our disposal whenever we find that there is a real danger of chinese exports affecting certain european industrial sectors, in particular footwear, clothing and textiles) and the adoption of a high degree of demand in the relationship which must be maintained with china in this respect. i believe that this is the way forward and that it must be based precisely on the fundamental idea that we cannot give up on having an ever closer relationship with china. at the same time we have to try to project some of our values. i would like to conclude by saying that it seems to me that we europeans are in a very special situation in the international context, that is to say that our interests are largely identical with our values. protecting our interests means projecting many of our values, and if we know how to project them, we will be safeguarding our interests.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from carcinogens at work. instead of giving priority to changing the objectives and the statute of the european central bank in order to demand democratic control, to stop the rise in interest rates and the worsening of social injustices, it insists on the obsession with resuming the main proposals contained in the neoliberal and militarist draft of the constitutional treaty and on the deepening of the concentration of power of the directory of the major powers of the european union; instead of pushing for the repeal or at least a radical revision of the stability pact and the lisbon strategy, with the aim of reviving public investment and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, stopping the liberalisation and privatisation of key sectors and public services in order to create more jobs with rights, reduce poverty and social exclusion, insists on the priority of sacrosanct competition to increase the power of economic and financial groups; instead of proposing measures that respect the dignity of those who work, of changing the situation of increasing precariousness of millions of workers, especially women and young people, as many thousands demanded at the demonstration called by the cgtp on 5 july in guimarães, what we see is the insistence on flexicurity, which is above all flexicurity exploitation of workers. that is why we insist on the necessary change of course towards the european union, why we say that it is time to listen to the demands of the people, to deepen democracy, to bet on a more just social europe, of progress and better distribution of income, it is time to respect the principle of sovereign states with equal rights, to strengthen cooperation and solidarity at international level, to bet decisively on peace, whether in the middle east, in palestine, in iraq, in afghanistan or in africa. we reaffirm our disagreement with a draft treaty which is said to be reformist but which in practice is nothing more than the resumption of the constitutional treaty through a great ruse to avoid referendums, to reduce democracy and the capacity of the peoples and national institutions to intervene, because they are afraid of the pluralist debate and public opinion in our countries. that is why we want a referendum in each of the member states, as public opinion in our states demands.
mr president, mr prime minister, you certainly see, as i do, the great expectation and sympathy that you have from virtually every seat in this house. there's a reason for that. the council's decision to reject the decisions of the european council in june was a clear and firm one. it is a matter of the european parliament's responsibility to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations. he also spoke of the lisbon strategy and the need for a new cycle. we all agree. however, we must bear in mind that one of the reasons for the failures of the initial lisbon strategy was the original sin of not entrusting the commission with the responsibility of piloting this strategy and the intergovernmental model is not enough. in recent years - i would like to thank the president of the commission - he has tried to take advantage of the interstices to make progress in this strategy. however, the council must accept that the commission must be even more involved in order to achieve the ambitious objectives which you, mr prime minister, referred to in your speech. as for external relations, it has to be said: you started off on the right foot. the summit with brazil was an unmistakable success, as i witnessed at the conference of presidents in brussels, as president lula said. i also want to tell him that neither africa nor europe can be held hostage by robert mugabe. let's say it with all our hearts. the summit must go into debate and cannot focus on this single or main issue. there are many other issues that you have mentioned and that will have to be the subject of our discussion and our dialogue and partnership with africa. just one more point, mr. president. in the case of relations with russia, you were courageous, going to see president putin in an environment which you knew would be hostile to you. now it is up to you to try to persuade your colleagues that russia must be involved in international problems, because russia must be part of the solution and not part of the problem. mr prime minister, you have the support of this house, and i am sure that you have the support of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, in the ambitious programme you have put forward. go ahead and push!
mr president, when i listened to the president of the council and the president of the commission, i felt very proud to be portuguese. this is a moment that will go down in the history of the european institutions. it is the first time that the european dialogue at the highest level in this parliament has been held in portuguese. in the past, portuguese has been around the world. it was the first european language to establish a dialogue between east and west. today, portuguese is spoken by more than 220 million people on five continents. i feel like saying with the poet: "bloom, speak, sing, listen and live the portuguese language". the portuguese presidency has just begun and has already left an indelible mark. the first eu-brazil summit was a success. it was urgent to include brazil's "b" in the eu's strategic partnerships with the bric countries. the correction is made. the conditions are now better for europe to give a new impetus to relations with mercosur and the doha negotiations. the portuguese presidency has therefore started off in the best possible way. i hope that it will have the same success in the other priorities, in particular with the adoption of the new treaty and the holding of the second european union-africa summit. dialogue with africa is essential in the fight against illegal immigration and climate change. the council's mandate for the treaty, as the prime minister said, was clear and precise: not everything is up for debate. the substance is agreed, the concrete formulation is missing. i hope there are no accidents on the way. so that europe does not become paralysed because it has stumbled over a comma or has collided with a word. it would be a bad sign for the citizens and for the world. we europeans need a strong and united europe, able to respond to the challenges of globalisation. a stronger europe and a better world and now, as cardoso pires would say, "now what of joseph?" let us get on with it and good luck, because the success of the portuguese presidency will be the success of europe.
president socrates said he had received a clear and precise mandate. i agree. but he knows that in spain or luxembourg the governments will argue that the new treaty is the same as the old one and that parliamentary ratification will suffice. as you know, the governments of france and the netherlands will say exactly the opposite, but in the end they will say the same thing: that there will be no referendum for anyone. i question your silence. will we have six months of double talk or political vision to include the people in the decision? i'll ask you about other silences. europe has no policy on iraq; does washington have to decide to call in their boys so you can get it? europe has two policies for iranian nuclear; do we have to have bombs falling on iran to realize that escalation should have been avoided? europe has an irresponsible policy in palestine and lebanon; in one case, it has always supported its president without recognizing governments, in the other, it supports the government and is against the president. does it have to all go wrong for us to realize that our role should be to foster internal understanding? last summer there was a war off the books. a year later, she's stalking again. engineer socrates, we can only avoid it if we want to avoid it.
mr president, the european presidency, which began a few days ago, faces challenges that require negotiating capacity, political will and strategic vision. firstly, the institutional question. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. among other important changes, it is foreseeable that the european union will no longer have rotating presidencies, such as yours, and one commissioner per member state. with these national reference points removed, in the name of efficiency, the responsibility for reducing the distance between citizens and the european union is now greater, and the best way to do this is to build a europe of results in what citizens care about: the economy and employment. in this connection, recent talk has been of "flexicurity". we believe that without employment there is no social model to defend and that employment is defended by agile and competitive companies which are constantly adapting to the market. but flexible working arrangements are not the only answer, nor is it the only path to the economic sustainability we advocate. europe will succeed if there is the political will to exploit its specific potential and at the same time invest in research, innovation and a long-term vision. an example of one of these potentials is the new european maritime strategy to which the european parliament will make an important contribution in today's vote. in the exploitation of resources, in transport, in trade, in the field of the environment, in scientific research, in the area of safety against environmental disasters, but also against illegal and criminal practices, we are in the territory of the global and the need for new responses as well. we expect the portuguese presidency to give a decisive impetus to this strategy at the appropriate time. and by the way, i leave you with one last note: the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of goods and services. the need for a new partnership for the mediterranean is growing, and the portuguese presidency has the necessary conditions to promote the relaunch of this strategic dialogue for the european union. mr. prime minister, we wish you good luck and the greatest success in the next six months. we are aware that what is good for you is certainly good for europe.
europe took a step forward at the last summit in june. it has not given up in the crisis, it has left no one behind in this common adventure towards a cosmopolitan society based on the rule of law. it is true that consensus is less easy in an enlarged europe, but europe is a moral project, a project of reason, a winning project. there is no other way but unity and no other destination but global justice. europe is being built on the foundations of structural adjustment: the treaty of rome and the breaking down of the myth of frontiers, the maastricht treaty and european citizenship, the treaty of nice and enlargement, now the reform treaty and political integration into a large-scale democracy. the reform treaty does not yet open the door to a constitutional europe, it still leaves us largely in a europe of governments, but it puts an end to the fallacy of reasoning by contrast, the error of contrasting the europe of results with an institutional reform of europe. the intergovernmental conference will require the good faith of governments, the participation of parliaments and a serious communication policy. but let us not be fooled, it will not be the referendum that gives substance to this communication, it will not be the referendum that legitimises the new union treaty. in many cases the referendum is linked to populist temptations which have nothing to do with the rational basis of democracies. europe's legitimacy is built only on a political process of continuous communication, which puts politics above bureaucracy, which values the scrutiny of national parliaments, which promotes civic activism, which strengthens leadership, which links publicity to institutions and which bases its daily policies on a culture of rights and humanity. that is the real europe.
in 200 words: 1.the mandate for the igc recovers the essence of the content of the treaty rejected in 2005. 2.the forces behind the creation of european capitalist integration are seeking to recover, with other outlines, the federalist, neoliberal andmilitarist qualitative leap embodied in the rejected 'european constitution'; the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. 4.on the basis of the mandate alone and with regard to institutional issues, as the major powers increase their weight in the eu decisionmaking process, portugal loses: - the weighting of votes in the council;- the right of veto;- sovereignty;- members of the european parliament;- a permanent commissioner. 5.the mandate reaffirms the foundations of the eu's neoliberal policies which integrate causes that are at the root of the serious socioeconomic problems facing portugal. 6. the mandate institutionalises the militarisation of the eu. 7.in other words, the content of the mandate alone would justify the requirement of binding national referendums on the pseudo-new draft treaty, and this requirement is only legitimate when what is at issue is the unacceptable imposition of the essential content of a treaty already rejected.
in writing. i voted in favour of the leinen report on the convening of the intergovernmental conference because i am convinced that the joint work of the european parliament, the european commission and the european council, under the portuguese presidency, will make it possible to find a solution to the impasses and blockages which persist in the european project and to build 'a stronger europe for a better world'.
in writing. the european parliament has just voted in favour of the report and its paragraph 8, recognising and welcoming the mandate of the european council for the igc and the fact that it 'preserves to a large extent the substance of the constitutional treaty'. despite the huge campaign of mystification about the real scope and objectives of the mandate, it is becoming increasingly clear that 'this great change' is nothing new, that is to say, that the aim is to circumvent the legitimate rejection of the so-called constitutional treaty by the peoples of france and the netherlands and to prevent the free expression of the peoples of each of the member states on a 'new' treaty. the european parliament's resolution on the eu's future is a welcome step forward in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. we reaffirm once again that it is time to listen to the demands of the people, to deepen democracy, to bet on a more just europe, on social progress and on a better distribution of income. it is time to respect the principle of sovereign and equal states, to strengthen cooperation and solidarity at international level and to make a decisive commitment to peace.
in writing. the real extent of the manoeuvre under way around the so-called 'new' reform treaty is reflected in the resolution adopted by the majority of the european parliament today. only two points should be underlined:- the confirmation that the phony (and false) 'period of reflection' served only to conclude the need to safeguard the content of the rejected treaty proposal, which is unacceptably achieved through the mandate for the 'new' reform of the treaties; - the incredible manifestation of cynicism and hypocrisy on the part of the majority of this parliament - which, it should be stressed, is part of the political forces that dominate the different governments of the eu countries - which, after having rejected the amendment proposals that called for referendums to be held on the so-called "new" treaty, 'urges the institutions to put forward concrete proposals to involve citizens again (...) in a dialogue in the continuation of the constitutional process'. it is imperative to denounce and condemn an operation which seeks to impose the essential content of a treaty which has already been rejected, by disguising it in order to try to prevent the holding of binding national referendums. that is the content of our vote to reject the mandate of the intergovernmental conference and of this resolution of the european parliament.
in writing. this initiative falls within the framework of the new financial instruments in the area of justice, freedom and security for the period 2007-13, where agreement has already been reached on most programmes, with the exception of the specific programmes on civil justice and on drug prevention and public information, where there were still differences between the ep, on the one hand, and the council and the commission, on the other, as regards the comitology procedure to be applied. i am glad that we have finally reached an agreement between the three institutions, responding to the need to continue to implement the new financial programmes, which are designed to co-finance projects and take action of general interest in these areas. further delays would undoubtedly have very negative consequences for this area and its beneficiaries, putting at risk the work on the establishment of a reference framework in the field of european contract law, the continuation of the work of the european judicial network, etc. some of these activities should have already received financial support since the beginning of 2007 but due to the delay in the approval of this programme they have not yet received it, as is the case with the judicial network in civil and commercial matters.
in writing. once again the majority in this parliament is promoting the total liberalization of a public service, the postal service, putting the interests and rights of the people and workers in this sector at risk. we regret that our proposal to reject this commission initiative, which aims to complete the liberalisation of postal services at eu level by promoting competition in this supranational internal market, was not adopted. we also regret the rejection of the amendments in which we advocate that member states should retain exclusive rights and a reserved area, and guarantee the social and labour rights of workers in the sector, including compliance with the terms and conditions of employment and social security schemes established by law or by collective agreement. in essence, although improving certain aspects compared with the commission's initial proposal, the report confirms the full liberalisation of the postal service, only postponing it to 31 december 2010, thus fulfilling the objective initially set by the first directive of 1997: the dismantling of a profitable public sector - the postal sector - and its subsequent handing over to private interests. this is the european union's policy, naked and raw, to which the workers and the people in the various eu countries must give an appropriate response.
in writing. a europe which is ready to be the solution to the daily problems of its citizens can only have the best instruments and examples. so, as regards legislation on the completion of the postal services market, we see no reason to destroy systems which have been operating effectively, with economic soundness and which are in line with the beneficial development of the market and the guarantee of the maintenance of the universal service. without opposing the principle of liberalization of postal services, i think this is the appropriate place to reiterate my position that there is no economic or rational reason to exclude the 'reserved area' from the possible financing of the universal postal service. the financing through the reserved area is not only transparent, neutral, free of state subsidies, economical in transaction costs and litigation and validated by economic theories. the portuguese case is proof of this, where all services are liberalized or ready for liberalization, without this being in conflict with the financing of the universal public service through the resources coming from the reserved area, whose importance for territorial and social cohesion and for combating desertification in the most remote and difficult to reach territories we cannot ignore.
in writing. we regret the rejection of our amendments which:- stressed that liberalisation 'has had negative effects in terms of the quality of employment and working conditions and that an assessment of its real effects on safety and the maintenance of a quality fleet still needs to be made';- safeguarded respect for workers' rights and collective bargaining, stating that: 'the employment contract and the conditions of employment of aircrew shall be governed by the laws, collective agreements and all related rights of the country in which the worker habitually carries out his duties or in which the worker takes up his work and returns to it after his activity has been completed, even if the said worker is temporarily posted in another country.'; and that 'member states shall ensure the proper application of community and national social legislation and collective agreements with regard to the employees of a community air carrier operating air services from an operational base situated outside the territory of the member state in which that community air carrier has its principal place of business'; or that they would ensure the participation of workers' representative organisations in decisions concerning the air transport sector.
in writing. the two main trends in financial markets have been the concentration of major financial players and the exponential growth of so-called 'alternative investment activities', i.e. the derivatives market and hedge funds. today, some 30 large transnational players worldwide concentrate activity and dominate the market. the concentration of financial services at national level is continuing at an accelerated pace, with the dominance of large foreign operators in the peripheral and small markets in the new member states and in southern countries such as portugal. the use of financial instruments for pure speculative purposes, which concentrate large amounts of money, such as tax havens, together with the deregulation of the main markets and the increasing free movement of capital worldwide, implies systemic and operational risks that trigger economic and financial crises. the major multinational players are the beneficiaries of this process, and the financial services action plan at european level has contributed to this. the questions remain: why not end tax havens? why are there no taxes on capital movements?
in writing. in this vote, as we expected, the epp was able to pass some of its proposals, betting on more flexibility and fewer rights for workers. that is why, in line with our position in the committee on employment, we voted against this report. we find it very serious that this parliament, once again following the neo-liberal lines and responding to the calls of the employers' organizations, is recommending further deregulation of labour law. the assumptions in the european commission's green paper, which this report does not deny, represent a serious attack on the rights of workers won after centuries of struggle. despite some contradictions, it promotes the use and extension of flexible employment contracts with lower wages and social rights, the increase in working hours, the deterioration of social security and the retirement conditions of workers. we also regard as very serious the clear attempt to mislead workers by using as justification for this attack everything that is not currently complied with in terms of labour legislation. it is about legalizing what is now illegal. but the proof that the populations and the workers are aware of this whole situation is the various demonstrations that have already taken place against these policies, such as the recent demonstration in guimarães involving thousands of workers.
in writing. with the increasing number of cases of exploitation of workers in various countries of the european union, particularly temporary workers, it is disappointing that the european parliament has not sent a clear signal to the commission, that it does not demand an end to these situations, that it does not clearly demand compliance with the minimum standards essential for the protection of workers and the conditions of employment applicable to posted workers. the text we have adopted falls short in some respects of the text we were able to adopt here recently - the schröder report - on the posting of workers. that is why we voted against it. we regret that the proposals we put forward were rejected, in particular those relating to the requirement of a legal representative of the contracting company in the host country, those advocating that the necessary documentation be kept at the workplace or that liability be ensured in the event of illegalities and those combating the phenomenon of recruiting workers on false premises. we strongly criticise the fact that the commission's communication is unbalanced in that it considers the measures for the protection of workers to be disproportionate, but it does not consider them to be disproportionate, nor does it even analyse the insufficient implementation of the directive as a result of inadequate controls in some member states.
in writing. i support the motion because i agree with the need to promote the mobility of workers in the european union. increased mobility will help to boost the internal market, which in turn will lead to greater economic growth and more employment. the internal market of the european union still has great potential for development in a number of areas, notably in the area of freedom of movement for workers. in view of the very different social and economic realities in the various member states, i am firmly convinced that it is neither possible nor desirable to harmonise labour legislation. however, i believe that there should be an effort at union level to achieve convergence in the definition of the status of 'worker' and 'self-employed'. the commission has also taken the view that the implementation of the existing european directives, in particular on the posting of workers, should be ensured. in this particular context, it is important to improve coordination and information sharing between member states on the basis of transparent criteria.
the question period is now over (b6-0133/2007). the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0448/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: aid for the rescue of shipwrecked persons considering that a member state of the european union is manifestly failing to fulfil its international obligations with regard to the rescue of shipwrecked persons by refusing to take in persons picked up by vessels of other states, does the council intend to adopt measures to ensure that the obligations of that state are respected throughout the union, including, where appropriate, aid to private individuals and public institutions bearing the burden resulting from their humanitarian obligations under international law?
question no 2 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0451/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: provision of adequate and quality childcare services in the member states the lack of adequate childcare facilities and their high cost is often an obstacle to equal treatment between men and women in the labour market and to the sharing of responsibilities in family life. the programme for the three semesters of the three presidencies (doc.17079/06, december 2006) states that the portuguese presidency will advocate the increase in the provision of quality childcare services as well as for dependent persons, in accordance with the decision of the barcelona council (2002). what does the council intend to do to ensure the adequacy and quality of these services? how can proposals to meet the needs of reconciling family and working life help to strengthen employment, lead to the recognition of atypical work and of qualifications acquired through experience, supplemented by possible theoretical training?
question no 3 by mrs sarah ludford (h-0454/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: failure to reach agreement on framework decisions on procedural rights is the council satisfied that it has been unable to agree on a measure concerning the legal rights of defendants and accused persons throughout the european union (the proposed framework decision on procedural rights in criminal proceedings)? what signal does the inability of the 27 member states to agree on safeguards that ensure fair treatment and trial and are considered an essential and announced complement to the european fishing mandate send to eu partners? can this strengthen the eu's voice in defence of human rights in the world? what steps does the portuguese presidency intend to take to relaunch this much-needed instrument?
question no 4 is therefore adjourned since its author is not present. question no 5 by mr bernd posselt (h-0459/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: enhanced cooperation with the mediterranean what is the council presidency's view of the idea proposed by french president sarkozy of closer cooperation with the mediterranean, and what steps does the council intend to take to prevent the barcelona process from failing?
question no 6 is not dealt with, since the subject is already on the agenda for this partsession. since they concern the same subject, the following questions should be referred together: question no 7 by mairead mcguinness (h-0464/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: imports of beef from brazil there is a growing body of evidence that the standards and controls in force in the beef sector from brazil are grossly inadequate, give rise to widespread abuse and are far from being as stringent as the equivalent standards applicable to european producers. the eu is still accepting imports of beef from brazil. in this context, does the council intend to act to protect both european beef producers and consumers, so that producers and consumers can be sure that all beef traded on the european market meets equally high standards? question no 8 by mr liam aylward (h-0468/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: separate eu-brazil agreement in the beef sector can the council state whether it intends to obtain an individual agreement between the eu and brazil on beef imports from that country to the eu if no progress can be made in the wto negotiations in the coming months? will the council have to give a specific mandate to commissioner mandelson to conclude such an agreement, or does he already have the possibility of concluding such an agreement within the framework of his negotiating mandate?
questions 9 and 10 will not be taken up because their subject is already on the agenda for this part-session. questions 11 to 13 are withdrawn. questions 14 to 18 are deleted if their authors are not present. question no 19 by mrs luisa morgantini (h-0496/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: kurdish mayor dismissed for providing municipal services in several languages the turkish council of state decided on 14 june to dismiss the kurdish mayor, abdullah demirbas, and to dissolve the sur district municipal council in the city of dyarbakir, because it provided official administrative services in turkish, kurdish, english and syrian. according to a 2006 survey, kurdish-speaking citizens in that territory represent 72% of the population of the administrative district. everyone has the right to use his or her mother tongue. turkey is violating the cultural and linguistic rights and the freedom of expression of minorities, which are fundamental requirements for membership of the european union. will the council state whether it intends to take action to respond to this serious violation and whether it intends to discuss this issue in dialogue with the turkish authorities in order to have the mayor and the municipal council readmitted and to ensure peaceful coexistence for all people in turkey?
question no 20 by leopold jósef rutowicz (h-0497/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: energy security in the european union over the next 20 years the supply of the traditional raw materials needed for energy production poses a number of growing problems, which is why energy sources are beginning to be used as a means of political pressure. what level of energy security does the council want for the european union? are there operational action programmes to ensure security of supply over the next 20 years?
questions 21 to 24 are deleted if their authors are not present. question no 25 by marian harkin (h-0515/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: protocol negotiated with the united kingdom on the charter of fundamental rights in view of the protocol recently negotiated by prime minister tony blair on the charter of fundamental rights and the right reserved by two delegations to accede to the british protocol, does the council consider that the rights of citizens of the three member states in question will be somewhat distinct from the rights of citizens of the other member states and, if so, what distinguishes them?
question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 9.40 p.m. and resumed at 10 p.m.)
for the first time, under this new instrument, parliament played a role in scrutinising national strategies. i think that the dialogue between parliament and the commission has been very constructive and should serve as a model for other possible and desirable collaborations, as in the case of the acp countries. however, we can still improve cooperation between the two institutions, particularly as regards the sharing of information. parliament considers it particularly important to receive clarification on how the various national strategies can, taken together, contribute to the financial commitment to allocate 20% of the available funds to basic health care and education. as regards the priorities set out in various national strategy papers, i regret that, in general, there is no greater investment in the millennium development goals. the objective of this financial instrument is to combat poverty, in particular by achieving these objectives. several of the national strategy papers include activities related to trade, higher education, civil aviation and even the promotion of the european union in the recipient countries. parliament understands the importance of some of these actions, particularly for the authorities of the countries concerned. i think, however, that our priority, the priority of the commission, should be activities which are directly related to the achievement of the millennium development goals and which have a much more direct impact on the fight against poverty. these should be the priority. these cannot be omitted, as is the case in some cases. i would remind you that parliament did not receive a reply to all the questions put to the commission during this procedure. i am sure we will receive them, as the commissioner has told us today, and i thank her for that. i am sorry to see mr van den berg go, as you mentioned, madam president. nobody is irreplaceable, but there are people who are more easily replaceable than others. that is certainly not the case with max! we socialists, in particular, will miss him a lot.
every year, in different member states, the scourge repeats itself. in southern europe, hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest are consumed by fires, while in northern europe floods cause devastation and death. every year we repeat ourselves in the european parliament. we regret the losses and promise to correct the shortcomings. well-meaning words are not enough. on the one hand, we must prevent disasters by combating climate change and taking environmentally friendly measures, in particular by reducing greenhouse gas emissions of co2 which are responsible for global warming. on the other hand, when disasters occur, the european union must respond quickly and appropriately. this is what the citizens expect and we must recognize that the solidarity fund is not adequate to the needs and that the civil protection mechanism, which has already been perfected, does not always give the prompt response that is required.
madam president, for someone like me, who comes from the western extremities of our continent, it is impossible not to express deep respect for a people whose fate has been so often tragic, particularly throughout the 20th century, and who are now making a huge effort to find the paths of democracy and the rule of law. this was demonstrated in the streets of kiev three years ago and is still being demonstrated in the desire of the ukrainian people to join the european union one day. and we must look at this will with respect and we must send out signals, signals which involve strengthening cooperation with ukraine at the most diverse levels, supporting ukraine's development at the most diverse levels. it is true that it is not up to us to do the work that the ukrainians have to do: to consolidate their democracy, to institutionalize their rule of law fully, to overcome the problems they still face. but if it is true that this is the work of ukrainians, we must send signals, and i am convinced that this report is a good political signal that we are giving to ukraine, and for that i congratulate the author of the report.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her own-initiative report, which highlights some points which we consider important, although we disagree with others, particularly in the context of the debate on the future of cohesion policy and the fourth report on economic and social cohesion in the european union. in this context, it is necessary to stress that disparities, particularly regional disparities, have increased very significantly with the successive enlargements of the european union, that there is evidence of the increase in regional disparities and the growth of the effects of polarization within each country, that there are currently regions and even countries in the process of divergence from the european union, and that, in general terms, there continues to be a rich centre and a poor periphery, now enlarged. in stressing these aspects, we want to highlight the need for a strong regional policy as an indispensable instrument for reducing disparities and promoting real, rather than nominal, convergence in the regions of the poorest countries of the european union. a strong regional and cohesion policy is all the more necessary as the costs of the internal market, the policy of market liberalisation and competition, economic and monetary union and the euro and its stability pact for the poorest regions and countries of the european union are accentuated. what is needed is to strengthen regional and cohesion policy, placing the proclaimed economic and social cohesion and real convergence as the central objective and policy of the european union, reinforcing the redistributive role of the community budget and adequately financing it in order to achieve the objectives it sets itself. the existence of an effective regional and cohesion policy also requires the rejection of its misuse, in particular by redirecting its funds to finance other policies and priorities which will in no way contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out above.
madam president, the report by mrs lidia de oedenberg is not only an excellent report, the result of her total openness and ability to create consensus, but it is also a reminder of the great regional disparities that exist in europe, both in the new member states and in the old ones, where many of its regions have been excluded from the group of the poorest regions, solely and exclusively for statistical reasons, statistics which are not always complete and sufficiently comparable and which therefore need to be improved. i come from an outermost region, the island of madeira, and i made a number of contributions aimed at ensuring that cohesion policy is adapted to the outermost regions, as referred to in article 29 (2), better defining the criteria for distinguishing between rich and poor regions, and strengthening research and education as a means of development, because these regions need to find ways of actually getting out of the situation in which they find themselves.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report based on the commission's green paper on the future maritime policy of the union: a european vision for the oceans and seas, because i believe that the promotion of a prosperous and sustainable maritime economy is fundamental. this report presents an integrated policy approach to this issue, with concrete proposals on shipping, maritime safety and security, tourism, fisheries, port policy, the marine environment, research, industry and spatial planning, including the proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from ships and the creation of a european coast guard.
in writing. we believe that a maritime policy based on cooperation between the different member states and translated at community level into a coordination of synergies that would add more value and boost the policies and measures linked to the sea defined by each country (such as fisheries, transport, environment, energy, among others) could have a positive impact. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in this connection, the rejection of our amendments is significant, as they indicate the principle issues we do not renounce, such as:- full respect for the sovereignty and competence of each member state in the management of its territorial waters and exclusive economic zones (eez), particularly with regard to marine resources - in particular biological ones - and the issues of safety, rescue and control of navigation in these waters;- the enhancement of the fisheries sector, given its strategic importance for different countries, such as portugal, ensuring the socioeconomic sustainability of this sector through appropriate policies and financial means; that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the first railway package, launched with the announced objective of 'laying the foundations for modal shift' - i.e. promoting the shift from road to rail - was a 'trojan horse' but sought to hide the opening up of rail transport, including freight, to competition and private interests as the first step towards full liberalisation of the rail sector at eu level. a process whose intentions we denounced and rejected from the start. as in other liberalisations promoted by the eu, one starts by using what is wrong at a given moment (by hiding the real causes of such situations, namely the systematic policies of dismantling and atrophying the public transport sector) to justify liberalising measures and pointing to the so-called 'competition' - not understanding how and why - as the solution to all the evils, this holy miracle, but in the end, with the consequences that we have pointed out in our intervention. public investment in the railway sector is undoubtedly strategic, according to the needs and options defined by each country, but not to hand it over to the profit-making logic of the big private interests, which aim to dominate this key public sector in each country by liberalising it at the level of the eu internal market.
in writing. the first railway package, which aimed to open the market to international rail freight services by 15 march 2003, has been somewhat successful. however, we can still see shortcomings and delays in transposition by the member states. the consequences of these delays have repercussions on the restructuring of railway undertakings and the creation of a genuinely competitive market. as there are still many aspects which are not fully exploited by the first railway package, we believe that it is necessary to create the resources to correct the inadequate implementation of the legislation by the member states. will we therefore need an independent and transparent national monitoring body with sufficient resources to play an active role against existing distortions of competition? we also need measures to create genuine interoperability - the lack of which in the rail networks is still the main obstacle to the achievement of an integrated european railway area - such as the rapid installation of the ertms system, especially on priority rail corridors.
in writing. dissatisfaction with the implementation and results of european transport policy does not negate the improvements that have been made, from transport safety to quality of service or the environment. there is, however, still much to be done. the limitations of community funding are one of the main causes of the inadequacy of this policy. only innovative forms of financing, such as public-private partnerships and the co-financing of projects by the member states, can prevent projects from being delayed or reoriented. the community funds for the financing of transeuropean transport projects are limited. that is why they must concentrate on cross-border sections, the added value of which will enable the creation of an interconnected and interoperable transeuropean transport network. it is, however, essential to avoid the creation of a blanket of national network parts, and the commission should ensure, in cooperation with the member states, the application and enforcement of european transport legislation. finally, enhanced cooperation at european, national, regional and local levels is needed to link good practice and transport policy with other national or community policies such as energy, environment, tourism or innovation.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution because we know that the reality of cardiovascular disease is a cause for concern and that it is important to increase knowledge in the area of prevention of the factors which have a negative influence on these diseases. it is therefore important to consider the actions contained in this resolution. we know that health is complete physical, mental and social well-being. but today's society is full of contradictions, because it is steeped in constant stress, lack of time to rest, spend time with the family, take care of physical health and psychological balance, added to poor diet and lack of time for sports, loss of rights at work, in particular overtime, and reduction of the period of leave, when not unemployment or permanent threat. now, all of this has serious repercussions on people's lives, on their balance and, consequently, on the proliferation of cardiovascular disease. however, this campaign to raise awareness and prevent cardiovascular disease should not be turned into a banner of the communicalization of health. what we want is to defend the public health service and the responsibility of each member state for its maintenance and management, so as to guarantee the right to health for everyone and not just those who have the money to pay for it.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transfer of personal data to third countries. among many deplorable aspects, it is noted that:this is based on non-binding guarantees, which can be unilaterally modified by dhs at any time. these data may be used for unspecified purposes and their retention period will be extended from 3 and a half years to 15 years. furthermore, there is no guarantee that after the retention period of 15 years - 7 years 'active' and 8 years 'latent' - the data will be permanently destroyed. the dhs will be required to provide the dhs with sensitive data (e.g. personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, and trade union membership, as well as other data relating to the health or sexual life of individuals). the agreement also refers to a possible future pnr system at eu level or in one or more of its member states, and states that this data may also be made available to the us dhs. in a word, intolerable!
in writing. the report 'welcomes the favourable economic developments achieved in 2006' in the euro area, but does not disguise some concerns and risks about future developments in the euro area. the truth is that profits as a percentage of gdp are at one of the highest levels, while wages continue to lose weight and grow below labor productivity, meaning productivity gains continue to go to the employer. the report says little about the increase in inequalities and poverty in the eu, the increasing precariousness of employment and the high number of unemployed, and ignores social tensions. but it is becoming increasingly difficult to justify further wage restraint and to call for more belt-tightening when the fruits of wealth continue to go to the same financial and economic groups as always. in fact, what they want to ignore is that the big question to stop consolidating this moment in the economic cycle is to raise wages and increase public investment in order to boost demand. the report does not do exactly that, insisting on the need for fiscal consolidation and price stability, i.e. less public investment and more wage moderation. this is a strategy which we reject and hence our vote against this report.
in writing. the situation in palestine is a matter of great concern. beyond proving that israel is not at the heart of the issue - a fact that so many have so often claimed - it also demonstrates two unfortunate truths. on the one hand, there are groups interested in and willing to do anything to obtain power by force and to exercise it violently; on the other hand, an authority whose survival is threatened is a partner incapable of making agreements and of building itself. the middle east, israel, europe, we all need to have a reliable partner at the table to negotiate and a strong partner to deliver on the deal. without these elements there will be no successful peace negotiations. but it is also impossible to achieve peace and security without determination. our unambiguous objective must be to ensure peaceful and secure coexistence between two states, nothing less. and that requires a real recognition of the obstacles to peace and security, rather than, as so often happens, assigning blame as if all actions were equal.
in writing. the present statement of vote is only to emphasize that, although the resolution mentions some of the most important aspects of the current situation in pakistan, its content ends up concealing the participation of the government of pakistan in the invasion and occupation of afghanistan by the us and its allies and its subsequent 'replacement' by nato. nothing about the pressures that pakistani officials have already admitted to having suffered from the us and its european allies to aid the attack on afghanistan. nor does it say anything about the nato bombing that has been carried out on the border between afghanistan and pakistan, which has led to the deaths of many innocent civilians on both sides of the border. an example of applying double standards...
in writing. the fact that europe, the united states and the world in general need pakistan's cooperation in the important fight against terrorism, and al-qaeda in particular, does not mean that the pakistani government, which is now a de facto presidential regime, has our unconditional support. on the contrary, i did. the fundamental values, the inalienability of democracy, deserve our defence and it will have to be in this spirit that the european union will manage its relations with pakistan, particularly on the eve of electoral events. that said, it is necessary to stress that the recent events at the red mosque prove - as if it were not yet demonstrated - that radical islam is a very real, very dangerous and very active threat.
in writing. after the doha declaration, the implementation of the mechanism for access to medicines was a failure, and it served mainly as an alibi to include the least developed countries, especially those in africa, in a negotiating agenda for the liberalization of world trade. the big pharmaceutical monopolies are not willing to lose the fabulous profits from patents and the bulky health "business". the right to life and health of millions of human beings is thus denied. research on a cure is oriented towards the "palliative", as continued illness is more profitable. capitalism is the commodification of life. the world bank and the imf condition loans/aid on the privatization and liberalization of national health sectors, increasingly in the hands of large multinational operators. health cannot be overridden by the wto, the primacy of competition and trade. the right of each country to guarantee the right to health must be guaranteed. the public sector has an irreplaceable role to play in ensuring this right, in particular by providing preventive and primary health care and promoting research for the benefit of all, but also by producing medicines and vaccines without the constraints of patents and other forms of licensing that inhibit access to essential goods for the people.
in writing. there are aspects of this report on ukraine which become recurrent whenever it comes to relations between the eu and eastern european countries, such as the recommendation to deepen internal reforms so that these countries fully adapt to the eu's neoliberal agenda. in this case, the first objective is the gradual economic integration of ukraine into the eu internal market, ensuring the creation of a competitive market economy (with particular emphasis on the energy sector), the close participation of ukraine in the eu's common foreign and security policy, and, we add, the elimination from reality (and, if possible, from memory) of any trace of the civilizational advances achieved with the first experience of building socialism in the world. despite the domination ambitions of the us/nato/eu major powers towards this country - with a particularly significant strategic importance in europe - they will always have to face those in ukraine who resist them. hence the importance of expressing solidarity with the ukrainian people and with the recent demonstrations in odessa against the us/nato military exercise - sea breeze 2007 - in that country.
in writing. we regret the rejection of our postponements which:- recommended that, in addition to paying attention to the specific situation of the regions affected by the so-called 'statistical effect' which have suffered cuts in the current financial framework, the need for its revision be put forward so that these regions receive the same level of support as they would receive if the eligibility criterion were an eu-15 benchmark; - i know . calls on the commission to speedily specify the content of the 'enhanced partnership' it has announced for the outermost regions, including the introduction of permanent, flexible and adequately funded policies and measures which are able to adapt to the needs of each of these regions and help to overcome the permanent constraints on development faced by them; or that:- urge the commission to study new ways of measuring the different aspects of regional development, not only on the basis of gdp per capita but also on other indicators such as unemployment rates and quantitative and qualitative indicators of social status (such as poverty rate, education levels and income inequalities), while improving the methodology for calculating purchasing power parities through the development of better regional and national indicators.
in writing. despite the repeatedly stated 'european crisis', one of the policies that defined its principles, values and strategies has fortunately not been called into question. in general, both european citizens and political leaders remain firmly convinced that the cohesion effort responds to a need for solidarity between partners in the same community, but also because cohesion represents an investment in the generalization of the conditions for economic growth of the whole in which we are integrated. there are, however, two notes that must be made. on the one hand, it is necessary to insist on the question of statistical error. there are several regions which have become statistically richer than they really are, simply as a result of enlargement. to exclude them from the support framework would not only be unfair but also wrong in the objectives of the policies pursued so far. finally, it is important to adapt cohesion policies to the new economic reality. the causes of backwardness and poverty, or in other words the factors contributing to this situation, are now distinct, which is why it is necessary to adapt and adapt these policies, avoiding that the current funds merely respond to old imbalances.
author: mr president, mr commissioner potocnik, ladies and gentlemen, iraqi brothers and sisters, a first word in memory of all those who have been deprived of their most precious possessions because of their ethnic or religious origin, because of their real or presumed convictions, or because they are a symbol of democratic courage and civility. let me highlight my comrade, colleague and friend, the representative mohammad hossein ahwad, a leading figure in the fight against theocratic fascism, who was assassinated on 12 april in the iraqi parliament. but so that the tears of our pain, as they cloud our eyes, do not prevent us from seeing those women who are still fighting to keep their children alive on the paths to which ethnic cleansing has taken them, the countless thousands of iraqis who look to the infinite in the streets of amman, damascus or cairo, victims of profound post-traumatic syndromes, the camps formed in the squares or in the buttresses of ruined churches or mosques, i want to send to each and every one of you a message of solidarity, love, affection and hope. the barbarity of the dark forces who rehearse on the banks of the tigris and euphrates what they plan for the whole of the greater middle east is beyond our imagination, so much less in these words. but the joint resolution we are now presenting is an indispensable first step towards turning the tide.
mr president, we all regret what has happened in greece and what has happened in the united kingdom. we all sympathize with the victims and hope that such situations will not happen again. unfortunately, as the leader of my group has already said, every year at this time the european parliament adopts a resolution deploring the natural disasters that occur during parliamentary holidays and proposing measures that take time to be adopted. we must move from words to deeds so that this situation does not repeat itself every year, as it is happening, with more violence and more victims. there is every reason to believe that the risks are increasing because of climate change and global warming. there are a number of documents which point to solutions - the barnier document and other documents presented by parliament and the commission have already been mentioned here - not only to improve the effectiveness of the civil protection mechanism at european level but also to strengthen the means at national level. as for the costs that are often cited, it is important to say that when tragedy happens it is necessary to fight it and rebuild the heritage that has been destroyed, which costs money. in fact, it's more expensive to cure than to prevent. one of the resolutions adopted by parliament provides for the drawing up of maps identifying fire risk areas, which should be taken into account in the urban management of the territory. it is also necessary to provide for various sanctions, such as not allowing construction in the burned areas for 10 or 15 years. there are member states' competences and i recall that portugal also had to deal with devastating fires in 2003 and 2005 and that this year it was fortunately able to help greece by sending airborne firefighting equipment there. it is therefore necessary to strengthen coordination at european level, but also to improve mechanisms at national level. it would be desirable if the commission were to put forward a directive on fires, as it has done with regard to floods. i would like to end by wishing commissioner dimas well.
mr president, i would like to begin by adding my words to those of all those who have expressed their solidarity with the victims of these disasters, from the canary islands in the west to greece and bulgaria in the east. i would also like to emphasize, as has already been done here, the role of the civil protection services, and in particular the fire brigades, in combating these disasters. i would particularly like to welcome the statement made by commissioner dimas on 31 july, in which he stressed the importance of the report by former commissioner barnier and its implementation in order to ensure that europe is properly equipped with a civil protection mechanism capable of providing the answers it needs. it is true that there is coordination, but we must not forget the limits of that coordination, namely that, for example, the various appeals made by bulgaria last july were not answered. the path ahead seems to me to be very clear: the commission must formalise what is contained in this report as its proposal, and we in parliament, and of course the council, must give due attention to and follow up these proposals which are extremely important for the future of european civil protection.
in writing. we are dealing here with an initiative by the republic of finland to adapt the regulation on analysis files to the legislation now in force. the 2003 protocol, which entered into force in april this year, amended title iii of the europol convention, in particular the part concerning the creation of analysis files and the collection, processing, use and deletion of personal data contained in those files. the implementing rules which have been adopted will therefore have to be amended accordingly. it is therefore a measure which, although temporary, is necessary and timely. in fact, this measure should have a short period of application, since all the previous acts should be repealed on the date on which the council decision establishing the european police office enters into force.
in writing. although we regard this resolution as positive, and therefore voted in favour of it, we stress the absence of some important proposals (which have been referred to more than once in previous ep resolutions) and the insistence on others on which we have the greatest doubts. we therefore insist on the need to revise the solidarity fund regulation to cover regional disasters and to create mechanisms to support the affected populations and reforestation, which include a component for the prevention of large-scale disasters caused by climate change. a public agricultural insurance scheme, financed by the european union, should be established to guarantee farmers a minimum income in the event of public disasters such as droughts, fires and floods. it is necessary to invest in a culture of prevention that takes account of natural disasters of the mediterranean type and a profound change in the cap to combat the abandonment of production by many small and medium-sized farmers and family farming, stimulating agricultural production, biodiversity and land use. we have doubts about the community civil protection mechanism, first of all because it can be another way of subtracting important aspects of national sovereignty, such as the management of natural resources, particularly forests.
in writing. i would like to express my deepest sorrow for the victims of the serious forest fires which occurred during the summer - particularly in greece - and my solidarity with their families and all the people affected. we must move from rhetoric to action. the eu must activate the financial instruments and means to ensure that the material needs of the affected populations are met and to promote the socioeconomic and environmental recovery of the affected regions. in the light of the debate, i would like to recall some of the proposals we put forward in 2003 and 2005 which are still very relevant: - the maintenance of the eligibility of regional disasters for the solidarity fund;- the recognition of the specific nature of mediterranean natural disasters, where more than 90% of forest fires and drought occur;- the creation of a community programme for the protection of forests against fires;- the evaluation of the possibility of creating an agricultural disaster fund;- the granting of special attention to the most disadvantaged regions in the event of natural disasters. finally, i would like to stress that if, instead of increasing military spending, the money was channelled into preventing, combating and rehabilitating areas affected by natural disasters, the impact and consequences of such disasters would be significantly reduced.
in writing. for the sake of consistency, in view of what we have said in the past and what we expect from the european solidarity fund, it is clear that my vote here would have to be in favour. but there is more than just consistency in this vote. european integration has, amongst its many advantages, the advantage of scale and, consequently, the advantage of solidarity economies of scale as well. without making the member states and their governments any less responsible, it is possible and desirable that a european solidarity effort should make it possible to deal with disasters which are more the result of nature and its increasing unpredictability than of errors in the administration of the territory. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i therefore believe that it is time to review many of our policies, particularly in the field of forests and rural development, but not only that, also in the field of environmental rules, in order to prevent man from making the destructive force of nature even more destructive.
in writing. the report states that simplification of the regulatory framework to ensure the clarity, effectiveness and quality of legislation is an indispensable condition for achieving the objective of better regulation and constitutes a priority action of the european union. however, it is claimed that there are some 500 new legislative initiatives (200 of which for 2007 alone) contained in a separate continuing programme specifically targeting codifications, which demonstrates the bureaucratic complexity of the european union. it also calls for simplification at european level to be accompanied by appropriate simplification at national level to ensure that the benefits of community simplification are not compromised by national regulations or technical barriers. but it is necessary to take account of what is purely bureaucratic and what are rights that are intended to be called into question. we agree that it is proposed that the commission should definitely opt for recasting as a regular legislative technique, so that for each initiative the full text is available, even if there are specific amendments, with a clear indication of the new parts and those that have not been changed, which would make community legislation more readable and more transparent.
in writing. we agree with the rapporteur that the notion of soft law, based on common practice, is ambiguous and harmful and should not be used permanently in the documents of the community institutions, although we disagree on other points in the report. however, soft law instruments are legitimate when they can be used as interpretative or preparatory tools for binding legislative acts, but they should not be treated as legislation, nor should they be given any normative effect, and it is for each country to decide on their use, in particular when they help interpret national provisions adopted with a view to ensuring their implementation, or when they are intended to supplement community provisions with a binding character. it is clear that so-called non-binding legal instruments cannot replace existing legal acts and instruments to ensure continuity of the legislative process. the commission should therefore pay particular attention to the effects of soft law on consumers and their possible remedies before proposing any measures involving soft law instruments.
in writing. this is a report drawn up from an extremely neoliberal perspective, demonstrating once again that this european parliament wants more and more liberalization, more benefits for capital, for economic and financial groups which already have profits of 35% or more. in addition to the praise for the great benefits that the single market brings (to the large economic and financial groups), it is stressed that protectionist attitudes persist, which must be combated, and that progress must be made in other areas which are not yet fully liberalised and integrated, such as financial and tax services, in addition to transport, postal services and energy. by distorting reality, they try to hide the real effects of the single market, such as the increase in costs, the reduction in the quality of services provided, the loss of jobs, and many others. the report is an attempt to push further the liberalisation of public services, the transfer of political power from the national to the transnational level and the attack on consumer and workers' rights, and it can only be voted against.
with this own-initiative report, whose rapporteur we would like to welcome, we hope to be contributing to the definition of a strategic framework for the logistics of freight transport within the framework of our european union. we see logistics as a necessary tool for the effective planning and implementation of a balanced and sustainable use of the various modes of transport. logistics is thus at the heart of a process of rationalisation to achieve the most competitive and sustainable levels in the future. despite the benefits that modern logistics brings in the areas of economic efficiency and competitiveness, the optimisation of the use of resources, the creation of employment opportunities, and the protection of the environment and the improvement of safety, we recognise that there are still problems to be solved, including the chronic under-funding of the tens, in which the development of freight transport logistics is embedded. alternative forms of financing must therefore be explored, using public-private initiatives, the eib, the structural funds, etc. another point to be noted, introduced in a timely manner in this report, is the need for the commission's action plan to include measures to combat organized crime in the international transport of goods, promoting the safety of cargo against theft and other diversions. it is up to the public authorities to regulate these and other aspects and, on the other hand, to facilitate the multimodal transport of goods, which is essentially an entrepreneurial activity. measures such as one-stop-shops and the reduction of red tape reduce costs and introduce a healthier and more competitive economy in the sector. given the high growth rates forecast for freight transport, the future of logistics will be crucial to benefit from efficient, sustainable, affordable and safe transport. to this extent, we are sure that logistics will increasingly be an essential tool for achieving the lisbon objectives.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate mr foglietta on his work. it has made a balanced report, has shown that it is aware of the problem and has put forward sensible proposals which are generally appropriate to the situation. we agree with the objectives of promoting responsible drinking patterns and preventing alcohol abuse in general, but especially by minors, pregnant women and motor vehicle drivers, we all agree. the proposals put forward by my group are in that direction: we are against alcohol abuse, but we must distinguish between moderate and responsible consumption and alcohol abuse. moderate and responsible consumption is not a bad thing, on the contrary, moderate consumption of wine, for example, is even beneficial for health. in addition, alcohol consumption habits vary widely across the various regions of europe. in southern europe there is a culture of moderate consumption of drinks with a relatively low alcohol content, such as wine and beer. these categories of drinks are part of the culture of some european regions and make important contributions to their economies. we therefore think that it is not appropriate to put labels on wine bottles indiscriminately, for example, like those on tobacco. tobacco use is always harmful to health, only alcohol abuse is harmful to health. we also think it is important that information and awareness campaigns be carried out to draw people's attention to the dangers of alcohol abuse. these campaigns should start in schools themselves. this is a subject which must be dealt with without prejudice, without fundamentalism and with common sense. we are concerned about the increase in alcohol consumption among young people, the fact that they are drinking at an increasingly young age and mixing alcohol and drugs and driving under the influence. these situations must be combated by all means, both at national and european level, because the future of our young people is also at stake. we agree with the general approach to the proposed measures to address the risks inherent in excessive alcohol consumption by young people, as well as with the need for measures to combat the harmful social consequences of alcohol abuse, particularly in relation to domestic violence. we know that the incidence of domestic violence resulting from alcohol abuse is very high. in most member states the laws prohibiting the sale of alcoholic beverages to young people are sufficient, the problem is their poor enforcement. the member states must strengthen the mechanisms of supervision and ensure that the legislation affecting the trade sector is complied with, that is, we must all take our responsibility and combat abuse, but not demonize moderate and irresponsible consumption.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, we generally agree with the proposals of the rapporteur, mrs jeggle, in the three reports that have been tabled, in particular the proposal to channel the budgetary savings obtained into a restructuring programme to help the outflow by promoting consumption and also nutritional information on the quantities of milk and milk products. we also believe that it is important to strengthen the quality and quantity of the school milk programme by extending the range of products that can be integrated into this programme, thus acting as a genuine programme to promote the consumption of milk and milk products, more in line with the tastes of children and young people and also taking into account nutritional concerns and food rationality. we also want very clear rules against the labelling of consumer milk, and we think it is right that the fat content should be an integral part of the so-called 'sales denomination' of the product. finally, a reference to the time we are living in, when milk production is becoming scarce for existing demand, so here lies the challenge of supporting the weakest farmers and milk producers and increasing milk quotas in the most deprived areas, particularly in portugal, taking into account that, for example, in the islands of the autonomous region of the azores it is possible to increase milk production without increasing the headage and that this is an ultraperipheral region with excellent conditions for milk production.
i have listened carefully to the communications from both the council and the commission, and i must say that i am convinced that we will have this discussion again - in the same exact terms as we are having it - in a few months' time, because for dr lobo antunes and commissioner frattini, everything that has been done is well done, it has been well done, there is no error, there is no assessment that allows us to detect a single error. we just have to insist on more of the same, and that's the first problem: you're wrong! as long as we continue to treat terrorism as a problem of police and intelligence services, we are only delaying the essential. terrorism is now closely linked to the symmetrical political logic which promotes the clash of civilizations and war, and your silence on this is deafening. for example, commissioner frattini announces measures to control explosives at a time and in an era when the war in iraq has become a private multi-million dollar business, or when the united states outsources the collection and processing of classified information. control the explosives? i know one way: nationalize production and trade. only this can prevent terrorism and counterterrorism from becoming the face and the crown of the same coin: the one that turns life and death into a business.
(inaudible) ... the council's reluctance to give institutional, legal and financial muscle to europol, eurojust, the counter-terrorism coordinator and sitcen, which could turn ad hoc coordination into genuine strategic cooperation against terrorism. several member states have not even ratified the main international conventions on this subject. al-qaeda and eta do not respect national borders and sovereignty, but our police and intelligence services remain hampered by inadequate barriers. it is not only more efficiency that is required of europe, but also more scruples, because the "good enough" is precisely a terrorist logic and the advance of international terrorism did not, in fact, take place in new york, bali, madrid, london or even baghdad. its greatest asset, which is increasingly attracting new recruits, has been given to it by democratic governments, by the ease with which they have sacrificed fundamental values, rights and guarantees, the pillars of democracy and civilization. europe must clear its name, which is miserably soiled, for the systematic collaboration of european governments with the bush administration in the abduction, kidnapping and torture of suspected terrorists. this parliament is still awaiting explanations from these governments. europe must be more effective in strategic cooperation to defeat terrorism, internally and with its allies, but also to defeat it by political ideas and by law. the portuguese presidency, under a socialist government, had an obligation to try to make a difference.
terrorism challenges our free and open society. sometimes it even tempts us to create a security right that is very close to eroding our civilized values. the european union must therefore urgently establish a common code that makes clear the principles and methods. first, the guarantee of the principles of human dignity and the rule of law on all fronts in the fight against terrorism. we cannot allow the moral foundations of democracy, which are based on these values, to be undermined. as simone de beauvoir said, we cannot allow our executioners to create bad habits in us. secondly, it is necessary to create uniform legislation in the member states. the union must be a union in this respect. the fight against terrorism makes it urgent to practice unity and consistency of rules; it cannot be left to the impulses of each member state and its public opinion on the occasion. thirdly, it is necessary to promote networking and to promote consensus by giving the measures legitimacy in the european parliament and in national parliaments. fourthly, the european union's efforts to establish an international united nations mechanism for monitoring emergency practices and legislation. this is a large-scale fight, not just a fight between europe or the euro-atlantic axis. finally, the fight against terrorism requires us to make an effort to create a more just and balanced international community, to diagnose the causes and the fractures, to promote a culture of rights across the peoples and to make a huge effort in dialogue between civilizations. terrorism is a complex phenomenon. we cannot answer it with a simplistic interpretation.
the 12 december 2006 is a historic date when the european court of justice gave full weight to the argument that i have for years defended here in this very room against the council and the commission, as regards the right to be informed of the charge of terrorism. but there will be no justice, there will be no real fight against terrorism as long as innocent victims remain on that list, such as the muhadjeddin organization of the people of iran, and as long as the main terrorist organization that exists in the world, which is the iranian revolutionary guards and all its satellite organizations in iraq, lebanon, the gulf and all over the world, continue with impunity, without being pinched by the fear of the european institutions to confront the terrorist beast. that is my appeal to the institutions - to do, indeed, what they are called upon to do.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think this debate has been extremely useful, interesting and very timely, especially in the light of the recent events in denmark and germany which have been mentioned here. i want to tell you that i will be the spokesman in the council for many of your suggestions, concerns and advice - that is my duty, and i will do so - and i also want to assure you that the portuguese presidency is, of course, in compliance with the legal provisions governing us, open to cooperation and dialogue with this parliament. this is, of course, a difficult debate and a complex debate. some feel that we should go further; others feel that we have already come a long way and that we may have to go back. some criticize, others applaud; some condemn, others encourage. but we all agree, of course, that we must firmly and decisively combat this new scourge called terrorism and that we must not, under any circumstances, give up in this fight. this is also a learning process for us, a continuous process of improvement. this is a new threat, one that we didn't know about, and one that we weren't used to dealing with and confronting. this naturally requires us to constantly improve, to constantly learn and to constantly act so that attacks like the ones we have seen will never happen again. we have done a lot of work, we have cooperated and collaborated a lot with third countries, as we should. this is an international fight. no member state on its own can effectively face the fight ahead, the threat ahead, any more than any organization or group of countries can do so on their own. we need much stronger international cooperation. in preparing for this debate, i have had the opportunity to note the range of measures and actions we have taken in the field of prevention, protection, prosecution and also in the response to terrorist attacks. i concluded that if there is more to be done, much has already been done and that we will have to improve on what we have done, what we may, in some cases, have not done as well as we should have. in this context, it is absolutely necessary to highlight the evaluation mechanisms we have put in place, precisely so that we can, after a certain period of implementation of the measures, reach conclusions which will enable us to improve the measures taken. i would like to say that for the portuguese presidency, as for the council, the fight against terrorism can and will only be carried out, i can assure you, in the framework of respect for our fundamental values and principles, which is what is at stake when we fight terrorism: it is the defence of those principles and those values. it would be wrong for us, when we fight it, to forget and ignore them. the portuguese presidency will pay particular attention to this point and will not compromise on this. i would like to say to you, finally - and this was the main point and one which i mentioned in my first speech - that the presidency is working in close coordination with the secretary-general of the council on the question of the coordinator for the fight against terrorism, that is, how we can improve his capacities, his competence, so that he can actually play the role for which this figure was originally constituted. i recognize there may be some delay here. the portuguese presidency is committed to speeding up this debate in the council's own bodies and to announcing a new coordinator for the fight against terrorism in due course. as i have said, i am withdrawing advice, suggestions and concerns from this debate. we are not and will not be indifferent to your views, we do not and have never had the pretence of being perfect, of saying that everything we have done is well done, is unassailable, is uncriticable. on the contrary, our effort will always be an effort to improve, to ensure that our societies remain free, open and democratic societies against those who do not wish it to be so. thank you very much.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all who have spoken in this very important debate. some have said that terrorism is a political strategy. i agree with you, mr mayor oreja. terrorism must be dealt with by a comprehensive political strategy. you have spoken a lot about prevention, about fighting violent radicalisation. in my introduction i gave some concrete indications on certain proposals. i can tell you that there is a major initiative on violent radicalization. in just over a month's time, on 16 and 17 october, a european conference on the role of education and schooling in eradicating violent radicalisation among young people will be organised for the first time. we have appealed to the world of education in europe and i would of course invite the observers of the european parliament who wish to participate. it will be an opportunity to make it clear that we want to replace the culture of evil and violence with a culture of tolerance and cooperation. we are mapping all the initiatives that have been taken in the member states to counter radicalisation and prevent the recruitment of terrorists. the results and good practice of this mapping will of course be made available to parliament. we have talked a lot about the dissemination and exchange of data and information. often, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of data, even an overdose of data, but without proper analysis of the data. this is why europol needs to be strengthened. i thank all those who supported the strengthening of europol, including mr pirker. i put a proposal to the council last december and i hope that the portuguese presidency will support the adoption of a strengthened analytical role for europol this year. an initiative on bioterrorism was presented in july. we have indicated very clearly which areas are vulnerable and where more european cooperation is needed - i am addressing myself to mr borghezio who raised the issue. some have spoken of the failure of the member states to comply. i am in favour of the so-called "naming and shaming exercises". in june i published a document which clearly identifies the member states which are also failing to implement the legislation in force against terrorism. this shows, i say to mr cambó in particular, that i am prepared to point out the responsibilities, but the exercises will be useful if all the member states and the council take the indication of non-compliance as a suggestion and an encouragement to move forward. many have spoken of the transatlantic relationship. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we need greater cooperation with the united states of america and at the same time we need more europe. i thank mr cashman, among others, for having expressed this principle. we cannot be late in developing a european model and at the same time reproach the united states for having one. i think that more europe is needed, more cooperation with the united states, but it is not necessary to say that the problem of europe is the united states. the problem is the terrorists and their actions in the heart of europe. that is the point to bear in mind. (applause) i would like to thank one final thought: i am sure that the new european treaty will give us more instruments, which will give us a tool to work together with parliament and to create co-responsibility between the three institutional actors. that will also give us, the commission and the council, strength. i believe that at that time all citizens will be able to understand and see, with transparency, who was wrong, who acted correctly and who did not act when they should have done so. the hope is therefore that this treaty will come into force, that it will finally be agreed and that this parliament will become a full-fledged institutional player in the fight against terrorism. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. as in previous debates, the majority of the ep, the commission and the council have avoided any serious analysis of terrorism in all its forms, including state terrorism, or of the so-called 'war on terrorism', and their continued attempt to decontextualize the analysis of terrorism, thus seeking to hide its root causes and the policies at its origin, is clear. such a procedure is all the more serious and politically significant when it is increasingly evident that the peoples of the world are confronted with the use of the so-called 'fight against terrorism' - of which the usa and the eu are the protagonists - as an instrument for disrespecting international law, subverting the sovereignty of peoples and calling into question the independence of states, by promoting the practice of interference, aggression and war, whether in afghanistan, iraq, palestine, with its hundreds of thousands of victims. and although some speakers have repeated to the last the safeguarding of citizens' rights in the so-called 'fight against terrorism' and the offensive of security measures that supports it, there is an accumulation of situations and facts of disregard for the fundamental freedoms, rights and guarantees of citizens.
in writing. we believe that the sustainability of fisheries resources is necessary for the continuation of fishing activity and the viability of the fisheries sector, but we reject a fleet management policy - like the one adopted in the eu - and the encouragement of the permanent slaughter of vessels, which has as its main consequences a sharp reduction in the means of production and a radical reduction in jobs. in order to achieve the objective of a sustainable balance between fishing capacity and opportunities, account should be taken of the socioeconomic situation of the fisheries sector by implementing mechanisms for subsidising or compensating fishermen who are affected by the economic consequences of environmentally friendly fishing and measures to reduce fishing effort, in particular in the most disadvantaged regions dependent on the sector. similarly, the adaptation of fishing effort to existing resources and the protection of the marine environment - while promoting small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing and defending fishing communities - would be particularly promoted by increasing the exclusive access zone of member states from the current 12 nautical miles to 24 nautical miles and, in the case of the outermost regions, from 100 nautical miles to 200 nautical miles.
in writing. the report says that around 110 billion tonnes/km of dangerous goods - to people and the environment - are transported in the eu each year, representing around 8% of total goods transport. of these, 58% are transported by rail, 25% by air and 17% by inland waterway. the international transport of dangerous goods is regulated by international agreements. in this context, we believe that the necessary and useful cooperation at eu level should safeguard the full sovereignty of the member states over the transport of (dangerous) goods within their territory, for example through the right to regulate, issue individual authorisations and prohibit the movement of the transport of dangerous goods for reasons of national security or environmental protection. this is a matter of principle which is even more important in the context of the unbridled liberalisation of transport promoted by the eu.
in writing. creating safe living conditions for european citizens is one of the eu's basic obligations and responsibilities. the volume of inland transport within the eu is growing steadily, and with it the volume of dangerous goods being transported. it is therefore necessary to ensure the simplification and clarity of the legislation applicable to the transport of dangerous goods. the aim of including the transport of dangerous goods by rail, road and inland waterway in a single directive can contribute to co-modality and ensure, through the rules laid down, greater safety and speed by adopting new criteria for the speed of delivery of goods and the provision of associated services. this means that transport throughout the eu - including the transport of dangerous goods - must be made safer, and i believe that this will be possible if the measures in this directive are implemented.
in writing. we agree with the report's line when it considers it important to strengthen the school milk programme, essentially in terms of quality. we regret, however, that in its present form, with the management philosophy implemented and the existing appropriations, this programme has unfortunately in many situations become an invitation to abandon consumption because of the poor quality and the inadequacy of the products presented in relation to the taste of the first-year students. we therefore agree to extend the range of products that can be included in this programme, both in terms of diversity and in terms of nutritional concerns and food rationality. but we must remember that simple questions such as the absence of cold nets must be solved urgently, because this situation prevents schools and many portuguese students from having access to products other than uht milk. the nutritional value of milk and the need to promote its consumption are recognised. but to do this, we must help them to produce quality milk, and the many small farms are that fundamental element, particularly family farms, which, through non-intensive milk production, sustain the life of rural communities and the population of the territory.
in writing. the resolution on the regulation on the restriction of the introduction of liquids into aircraft is noteworthy as a positive one in that it approves the amendment - also tabled by our group in this parliament - which 'invites' the european commission to derogate from this regulation since no evidence has been presented as to its effectiveness with regard to safety, nor have any conclusive facts been reported, as had been promised, by means of an exhaustive public report. it has also been pointed out that if the commission intends to introduce such a regulation in the future, it will first have to submit a report proving that such a measure would be effective. it should be noted that the current regulation is being applied without, at the very least, the commission having published and made available to citizens the literal text of the prohibitions and restrictions which may apply to them, the list of exemptions to them and the reasons for the measure. the commission has not yet ensured that airline passengers are fully and correctly informed of their rights, especially in cases of abuse of power in the application of safety standards.
in writing. i believe that the threat to air safety is real and that the risks involved are enormous. i also believe that there is a proportionality between the inconvenience to passengers and the goods protected and that there is no violation of rights, freedoms or guarantees in question here, but only a technical measure which has proved effective, so i think that the european parliament is rushing and exorbitant in asking for the application of the regulation on the introduction of liquids on aircraft to be abandoned if no new evidence is presented in favour of its application. the precautionary principle advises that a small inconvenience is preferable to a catastrophe. the safety principle is that you don't go easy on yourself until you're sure of the risks involved. for these reasons i voted against the motion for a resolution on the establishment of measures to implement the common basic standards on aviation safety (the introduction of liquids on aircraft).
in writing. among many other considerations which the report deserves to be expressed, we emphasize in this explanation of vote the misunderstanding of the rejection of our amendment to include a mention of the outermost regions - such as the azores and madeira - in the framework of the definition of priorities for transport logistics in the different eu countries. as we stress the rejection of our amendments which emphasised:- the strategic importance of public services and their provision by the public sector in promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion and the criticism of policies which call into question the role of the state as a provider of public services; - the incentive effect of public investments co-financed by the structural funds under cohesion policy, which attract private investment' and the 'possibility of community funds being used to finance private investment in the absence of a public investment strategy; the report notes that logistics is primarily a business activity, but understands that public authorities can act as facilitators and calls for the dissemination of good practice in logistics financing, for example through different initiatives for the use of public-private co-financing. for a good listener...
in writing. the eures network is presented as a possible communication platform for the european labour market, i.e. as something that can help to encourage the geographical and occupational mobility of workers. but then it must help to fill the gaps in the information provided in order to avoid the dramatic situations faced by workers in various countries where they have to go to work, usually because of a lack of employment in their country, as is the case with the portuguese. information on social security and workers' rights to leave, pay, sickness benefit, housing and education/training should be improved. it is necessary to ensure that workers who go to work in a country other than their own are given their rights and that these rights are respected. the lack of oversight is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. the situations to which they are sometimes subject, forcing them to work long hours, without adequate housing, even without a contract of employment, and to be paid much less than initially agreed, are well known. these questions must be answered if the mobility of workers is to be achieved without serious problems.
in writing. the report only deals in a very vague way with the central question of the factors that determine alcohol abuse and therefore fails to take account of what we might call a cognitive/repressive culture based on the risk/threat/punishment evaluation process. it should be borne in mind that each additive drug and each additive behaviour has its own characteristics. the report points out the need for further study and progress on the basis of conclusions, but the path it is taking seems to be already a priori. before addressing the big question of 'alcohol and work', it is worth drawing attention to the crucial importance of exemplary behaviour in the construction of young people's values and attitudes. occupational medicine itself, which should play a central role in prevention and therapeutic guidance, is understood as an extension of the repressive/exploitative arm of employers, and not as an independent mechanism for prevention and health promotion. a line should be set up to finance programmes to support workers subject to work stress, arduous work, unemployment and precariousness, aimed at the identification and treatment of alcoholism and the improvement of working conditions, disease prevention and health promotion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, financial crises are never confined to the financial sphere. the current crisis will make credit more restrictive and, in anticipation, it has already started to become more expensive regardless of the decision the central bank will take tomorrow. the confidence of economic operators has also declined substantially and, despite the optimism of commissioner almunia, growth in the economy is neither widespread nor guaranteed. there are indeed many regions with serious economic difficulties. it is difficult today, but i would like to have some support in justifying to the citizens that the worrying increase in household indebtedness, the disincentive to public investment, the overvaluation of exports produced in europe caused by the management of the interest rate, among other aspects, are inevitable sacrifices. traditionally, to control a nonexistent inflation. the options are now more limited to the perfectly foreseeable consequences of excessive risk exposure by financial operators which we have not been able, or have not been willing, to regulate in time. i think there are two conclusions to be drawn: the first concerns the need to improve regulation, transparency and cooperation in financial markets, as has already been pointed out. the second is the urgent need to review the relationship between monetary policy and its impact on the real economy, households, investment and employment.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is still in the process of being discussed in writing. it is not enough to identify the problem when it has already become visible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all know that the real economy is based on the production, distribution and consumption of goods according to people's needs, even if those needs are real, imagined or created by advertising. which means that the currency in circulation should be equivalent to this real economy. but the greed of those who want more and more profits led to the creation of financial exchanges and the speculative profits of the casino economy, secondary to the productive area and promoting the financialization of the system. this is the root of the current problem that central banks have sought to mitigate by either throwing even more money into circulation or raising interest rates. these are processes which have their limits, otherwise they will fuel new speculative bubbles or further degrade the real economy by increasing the costs to households.
the green paper on climate change draws attention to natural phenomena aggravated by climate change. climate change is expected to lead to reduced rainfall, increased temperature, and increased incidence of heat waves and droughts, which will further contribute to desertification. unlike other natural disasters, the impacts of drought do not affect infrastructure, but the productive and environmental fabric, and the lives of people. one of the serious consequences of drought is the difficulty of supplying drinking water to the populations. studies reveal that droughts and floods kill more people than any other natural disaster. on the other hand, eight million people die each year from diseases related to the consumption of unsafe water, such as diarrhea, cholera and typhoid fever. lack of clean water is responsible for 80 percent of the disease and death rate in developing countries. more than 4,500 children die every day from water-borne diseases. it is no accident that the informal meeting of the ministers for the environment, held in lisbon a few days ago, was devoted to the problems of water scarcity and drought, which is, moreover, one of the concerns and priorities of the environmental programme of the portuguese presidency, as has already been mentioned by the secretary of state. the conference of the parties is expected to take the appropriate decisions to combat drought and desertification and the european institutions are also expected to contribute. finally, i would like to reiterate the proposals i made in the report on natural disasters, in particular, and which the european parliament approved: the creation of a european drought and desertification observatory, with a view to collecting information and responding more effectively; the increase in preventive measures in the field of the management of drought risks, including strategies to minimise their impacts, and their incorporation into the management strategies of watersheds.
the question period is now over (b6-0138/2007). the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0517/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: global approach to the issue of immigration in the light of the conclusions of the general affairs council meeting in luxembourg on 17 and 18 june on the extension and strengthening of the comprehensive approach to the question of immigration, and in view of the difficulties arising from the implementation of permanent intergovernmental cooperation mechanisms in this field, what measures does the council consider could be taken to promote the development of more effective community policies in this field, in particular by giving the commission or the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders (frontex) effective decision-making powers in areas such as the preparation of pilot projects of association?
question no 2 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0520/07) subject: modernisation of labour law with regard to gender equality what differences in treatment between men and women does the council find in the sector of salaried employment? what is the geographical distribution of discrimination in the member states? how does the council intend to contribute to the discussion of discriminatory treatment in the debate on modernising labour law so that men and women can have access to quality work with flexibility and security? can it be decided to establish safety clauses for the protection of maternity and the reconciliation of work and family life in the private sector?
question no 3 by mr chris davies (h-0523/07) subject: palestine and the palestinian authority what is the council's present position on direct communication with the elected representatives of the palestinian people working in the administration in gaza?
since the author is not present, question 4 is closed. question no 5 by mr david martin (h-0526/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: aid to trade the finnish and german presidencies should be congratulated for giving priority to aid for trade. what steps will the portuguese presidency take to ensure that trade-related aid expenditure incurred by the commission and, in particular, by the member states, remains on track to reach the target of eur 1 billion per year by 2010? has the presidency actually clarified the financial commitments made by each member state in relation to this objective, or does it intend to do so? how does the portuguese presidency intend to ensure that member states and the commission provide adequate assistance on the aspects identified in 2006 by the wto working group on trade assistance, such as adjustment and trade-related infrastructure, which do not fall within the definition of trade-related assistance and therefore do not fall within the eur 2 billion target?
question no 6 by mr esko seppänen (h-0527/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: policy on the northern dimension the portuguese presidency of the council stated that it would seek to promote eu cooperation with the countries of the mediterranean area. since the eu also has a northern dimension, how does the presidency of the council intend to promote the policy on the northern dimension of the eu and its implementation at the same time?
question no 7 by mr bernd posselt (h-0530/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the frontex agency what experience has the council gained in recent months with frontex? how does the council see the idea of making it a genuine european border guard agency, following the german model of the bundesgrenzschutz (federal border guard service)?
question no 8 by mrs sarah ludford (h-0533/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: improvement of police cooperation what are the intentions of the portuguese presidency with regard to the progress of two important commission proposals aimed at increasing the security of eu citizens against crime and terrorism, namely com (2005) 0317 final on improving police cooperation between the member states of the european union, especially at internal borders, and com (2005) 0490 final on the exchange of information based on the principle of availability? as not all the elements of these two proposals were introduced in the 'prum' decision, does the presidency not consider that the fact that the member states have not reached agreement on this is a bad sign about the importance and urgency with which they are tackling the challenge of cross-border enforcement?
question no 9 by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0536/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: ecumenical character of the patriarchate of constantinople a series of events reveal the intention of the turkish authorities to question the ecumenical character of the patriarchate of constantinople. in particular, the turkish foreign minister explicitly stated that he did not believe that the turkish government would recognize the ecumenical character of the patriarchate of constantinople. he even forbade turkish representatives from attending the reception of the patriarchate of constantinople because the invitation referred to it as ecumenical. similarly, turkey's new national defense doctrine states that "efforts to overcome the current status of the patriarchate must be prevented" and finally, by a ruling of 26 june 2007, the supreme court of appeal of turkey declared that the patriarchate of constantinople has no ecumenicity and that the patriarch is the head of the greek orthodox community of constantinople. the council is asked whether the position of the turkish authorities vis-à-vis the patriarchate of constantinople is in accordance with the copenhagen political criteria and the obligations assumed by turkey in the context of the pre-accession process. what immediate steps does the commission intend to take with the turkish authorities?
since the author is not present, question no 10 is inadmissible. question no 11 by mairead mcguinness (h-0540/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: results of the eu-brazil summit will the council state its assessment of the outcome of the eu-brazil summit held on 4 july 2007, in particular as regards economic and trade relations?
question no 12 by marianne mikko (h-0542/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: eu assistance to estonia in connection with fisheries agreements with russia on lake peipsi the council is certainly aware that 126 kilometres of the eu-russia border follow lake peipsi. bilateral agreements between estonia and russia coordinate the protection of the sensitive ecosystem of peipsi and of fish stocks. however, russia has been accumulating breaches of these agreements, which are clearly endangering these units. more precisely, on the russian side danish siege nets are used almost all year round, and not just during the agreed period which is strictly limited. russian markets provide clear evidence that russian official measures are inadequate to protect the various fish species in lake peipsi below the authorised size. the russian side put forward several pretexts for postponing the negotiations for the autumn 2007 season. can the council state what measures it intends to take to support estonia, an eu member state, in what is considered to be essential negotiations between the eu and russia on quotas and their future management?
question no 13 by brian crowley (h-0547/07) subject: relations between the eu and bosnia can the council make a statement containing an updated assessment of the political relations currently observed between the eu and bosnia?
questions nos 14, 15 and 16 have been withdrawn.
as the authors are not present, questions 19 and 20 are now obsolete. question no 21 by marian harkin (h-0566/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: distinction between signatory and non-signatory schengen member states in view of the statements made by the irish taoiseach, bertie ahern, and the british prime minister, gordon brown, that it would be necessary for both countries to end the distinction between signatory and non-signatory schengen member states, and in view of the priorities of the portuguese presidency in relation to the schengen agreement, can the council indicate how it intends to further facilitate border controls and cooperation between signatory and non-signatory schengen member states before the end of the presidency?
question no 22 by mr proinsias de rossa (h-0568/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: establishment of an eu-israel subcommittee on human rights in november 2005, the eu-israel subcommittee on political dialogue and cooperation established an eu-israel working group on human rights, which is responsible for the implementation of the eu-israel strategy for human rights. will the council consider the possibility of transforming the eu-israel working group on human rights into a subcommittee on human rights, which would meet more regularly than the working group (which had only been seen twice by february 2007) and could carry out regular and systematic consultations with civil society in israel, the occupied palestinian territories and the eu in order to assess the human rights situation in israel and the occupied palestinian territories?
question no 23 by mr van hecke (h-0572/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: situation in zimbabwe the political and economic situation in zimbabwe has assumed threatening proportions. police arrested more than 1,300 shopkeepers and businessmen who refused to cut their prices in half, as ordered by president mugabe's government. these price reductions have led to hoarding at the big chain stores. basic necessities - such as sugar, cooking oil, and bread - are no longer found except on the black market. the gas pumps are out of fuel. according to eyewitnesses, supporters of the ruling party looted quite a few shops. inflation - the highest in the world - is the result of the continuous issuance of currency, which the government uses to pay its officials, agents and soldiers. according to the opposition mdc party, the government is trying to secure the votes of the poor nine months before the presidential elections. representatives of the ruling zanu-pf party are said to have rejected an invitation from south african president mbeki to visit pretoria. what is the council's position? will it ask the government to take more responsibility for the crisis?
question no 24 by danute budreikaite (h-0575/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the nord stream gas pipeline during the german eu presidency, a representative of the eu stated that the nord stream project is promoted by private companies and the eu has no influence on it. in an interview with lithuanian television on 15 july 2007, german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier stated that the nord stream project is neither german nor russian, but trans-european. according to him, the eu would be against the project if lithuania's energy and ecological interests were harmed. what is the position of the portuguese presidency on this matter? will the nord stream project be a private project or an eu project? what role will this play in the future eu's common energy policy?
question no 25 by mr morgantini (h-0576/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: sentencing of mordechai vanunu to six months in prison mordechai vanunu, a pacifist of more than 20 years and a former nuclear technician, was sentenced on 2 july 2007 to six months in prison by a jerusalem police and correctional court for allegedly not complying with an administrative order that placed limits on his freedom of expression and movement. vanunu was kidnapped in rome and taken to israel, where he was arrested and charged with high treason for having spoken to the sunday times about israel's nuclear weapons. he was tried behind closed doors and sentenced to eighteen years in prison, eleven of which were spent in solitary confinement. since his release from prison in 2004, he has been subject to significant restrictions on his freedom by the order (in particular, he is prohibited from establishing contacts with citizens of countries other than israel, from approaching embassies and consulates, from possessing a mobile phone, from accessing the internet or from leaving the state of israel). what action does the council intend to take in this context vis-à-vis the israeli authorities to respond to the violations of the fundamental rights of expression and movement in question?
question no 26 by mr howitt (h-0578/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: progress on the directive on the working conditions of temporary agency workers what are the results of the initial consultations held by the portuguese presidency with a view to reaching agreement on the proposal for a directive on the working conditions of temporary workers (com (2002) 0701)? does the president-in-office foresee that the amended proposal for a directive will be put to the vote in the council during the current presidency, and what timetable has he set for informal and formal negotiations on this matter?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
i congratulated my colleague elena valenciano on this important report which makes concrete proposals to involve the european parliament in the political dialogues on human rights held by the council and the commission. the aim is not just to strengthen the european union as a global actor on an interinstitutional level. it is a question of taking advantage of the added value which the participation of the european parliament can bring to the substance of these dialogues and their practical results, in an area where the insensitivity and timidity of several european governments and bodies, unfortunately, contrasts with the commitment and historical leadership of the european parliament, the representative body of the voice of the european citizens. we must recognize that there are many cases of inconsistency which discredit europe. this morning, in the debate on terrorism, i will look at the collaboration of european governments with the bush administration's torture relocation programme. but let us also turn to european development policy, which is supposed to promote good governance and therefore human rights. the current portuguese presidency even intends to deepen european relations with africa in this context. but how can we explain the failure of the commission and the european council to use the most basic of instruments already at their disposal, such as the cotonou agreement, with specific human rights clauses? it is now clear to 77 million ethiopians and many millions of africans that the eu does not take the cotonou agreement seriously. among the elected members of parliament, journalists and activists who were imprisoned in ethiopia following the 2005 elections, observed by a european union mission, 38 were recently released thanks to repeated pressure from this parliament and the incomprehensible silence of the council. but others, such as netsanet demissie and daniel bekele, are still in prison. will they ever believe in cotonou and the eu? examples of resignation and even depressing submission by eu officials occur all over the globe - from addis ababa to beijing, from moscow to riyadh, from tehran to havana. we hope that the news that a european commissioner recently apologized to the sudanese government in order to avoid the expulsion of local commission delegates will not be confirmed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating deserves our support, first of all because of the extent and detail with which it analyses an aspect of great relevance to the external dimension of the european union, and i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur. the worst thing that could happen to the european union's commitment to the global promotion of fundamental human rights would be for this to be an isolated issue, dealt with in isolation. the alternative, the good option, i believe, is one which considers the promotion of human rights to be both an ethical duty, which is not without justification, and an interest of the european union insofar as instability, migratory flows and the political-military tensions associated with their violation provoke crises which make the world a more dangerous place. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if the european union were to relate only to countries which respect human rights, as we advocate, there would be very few countries with which we would have solid relations. on the other hand, if the european union were to always opt for the realism of economic, energy, geostrategic or other interests, it would soon find that instead of defending immediate advantages, it was creating greater future dangers. what we should expect is that the european union has a coherent strategy that involves including the promotion of human rights in its external agenda in a tangible and measurable way. spending money without evaluating the outcome of its use, or proclaiming purposes that will not materialize, is not an option. in this respect, the forthcoming eu-africa summit is an opportunity that cannot be missed. if we want to help africa and africans - and we do - we have to be as generous as we are demanding. we must not, as i have said, have the illusion that we are only dealing with countries which respect fundamental values, but we must have the conviction that the human rights agenda is part of our policy towards those countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a better world, madam president, is a safer world and europe cannot confuse the soft power of its diplomacy with dream power, or worse, no power at all.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all allow me to thank the rapporteur, ms fraga estévez, and all the members of the committee on fisheries for a very thorough report on the implementation of sustainable fishing based on maximum sustainable yield (msy). i am pleased to see that we are in broad agreement, in particular on the need to move away from annual decision-making allowing for a more gradual approach and for better planning by the sector. a longer-term approach will also allow for more stability and sustainability in the exploitation of fisheries resources. i am sure that we are in agreement on the objectives of urgently taking measures to improve the very poor state of fisheries resources in europe in order to bring the stocks to sustainable levels, which, at the same time, will improve the profitability of the fishing industries in the long term. apart from the benefits to industry, there is an international political commitment that should be met. in particular i appreciate and share the committee on fisheries’ view that the common fisheries policy needs a new management model for the setting of fishing opportunities, the recovery of depleted stocks and the adaptation of fishing effort levels to sustainable and profitable levels. also, and very importantly, adjusting fishing efforts to msy levels is the single most important action that can be taken to reduce discarding in european waters. i am aware that there are concerns too. i share many of these concerns and know they will need to be addressed. first of all, i know that evaluating msy is not a simple matter. there are scientific uncertainties and the matter is complicated because of eco-system effects and mixed fisheries issues. fisheries science is not yet able to predict accurately what msy for any particular stock or mixture of stocks will be. but we must not only look at the difficulties. science can tell us in which direction fisheries should move in order to improve yields and decrease costs. even if the destination is imprecise, the direction is known quite well. we should start to move in the right direction and progressively evaluate and review the msy reference points as fisheries develop. mixed fishery situations need to be studied carefully and the best possible solutions identified in relation to the potential yield of the whole fisheries system. this progressive approach will allow environmental, economic and social aspects to be explored. it is also the approach that has been adopted in the long-term plan for plaice and sole in the north sea, which was adopted this year and which i consider to be a good model for the implementation of this approach. as your report stresses, it is an urgent matter to start moving in the right direction. let me underline here that the long-term management plans in practical terms move fisheries management in the right direction: that is, away from over-exploitation and not necessarily to a fixed msy target. the plans include provisions for regular revisions of the targets that allow for the adaptation of msy targets where necessary, for example, where there is a change in the natural environment or where there is a revision of the scientific advice. secondly, i agree that it is important to address fisheries issues on a local basis and to involve the stakeholders in the important decisions concerning the choice of objectives, the rate at which we should move towards those objectives and the right combination of measures to take such as tax, effort management and technical adaptations. the commission will only prepare msy plans on a regional basis and only after a detailed consultation with the sectors involved. the region advisory councils will play an important role here and their work has already begun. economic and social analyses are also important in this process and the commission will accompany all proposals for management plans with impact assessments where economic, social and environmental aspects of the proposals will be analysed. increased support for fisheries research is a necessary part of the development of msy plans. the framework programmes, the work of the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries and the support of the international council for the exploration of the sea will all be important in this context, which will be a priority area for the next years. moving to msy fisheries will, in many cases, mean adjustments of fleet capacity and reductions in fishing effort. the european fisheries fund was designed so that member states can plan the development of the national fleet capacity and use co-funding from the community budget to help adjust the fleet size according to long-term objectives and taking appropriate social and economic provisions into account. i would also like to say a few words in relation to the three amendments proposed by mr schlyter. the commission believes that a gradual approach to moving to msy conditions should in fact be a general rule. there is no need in all cases to move drastically to msy. as regards scientific methodology for reaching msy, the commission will ask for scientific advice on a case-by-case basis. we should not prejudice the scientific debate by prejudging which methods may be better than others. lastly, as i have already stated, it is correct to say that the european fisheries fund provides for member states to allocate public aid so as to restructure fishing fleets in line with msy strategies. this, however, should not be seen as compensation, because the fishing industry will be the eventual beneficiaries of the new policy but as a financial incentive to make the transition. the commission will continue the dialogue with the fisheries sector and will start to discuss specific long-term plans for a number of fisheries with an msy perspective. implementing such plans will improve the stability and the productivity of stocks and of the industry. i look forward to more discussions with you about these plans at a later date, after the commission has developed impact assessments, consulted the industry and prepared our proposals. there is a lot of work to be done and i will be very grateful for your support in developing this policy area.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, mr commissioner, mr president of the committee on fisheries, i would like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur on her excellent work and also congratulate the commission on this communication which responds to a requirement which it itself adopted at the 2002 world summit in johannesburg and which also corresponds to the first of the eight objectives which were set out at that conference. of course, much has already been done by the european commission on these eight objectives, but i would like to tell the commissioner that we are in 2007 with objectives set for 2015 by a summit in 2002. the fact that we are still debating this communication at this stage does not seem to me to be a fast enough way of responding to the scale of the challenges we are facing. i welcome the words of the commissioner when he speaks of the need for a new management model, when this proposal emphasizes the concept of ecosystem management, i think we are also moving in the right direction, but i think that by looking at this concept of maximum sustainable yield as something radically new we are here making a mistake, because this concept, which is a theoretical concept, has always been the basis for all the fixing of quotas and tacs, and it would not be possible to do so if it were not based on this concept. the problem is that its application has many problems which were, incidentally, very well pointed out by our rapporteur and also by our colleague mr doyle and we cannot just rely on its blind application, we must try to improve its effectiveness, see that by seeing where it has failed and where it has had good results and this is an exercise which i think, frankly, this communication cannot do; and we must go beyond that to all the other complementary means. that is the challenge now facing the commission, from whom i hope we will hear good news in the near future.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in general, following the main points of the report under discussion, which are of crucial importance for the fisheries sector, we consider it useful to highlight the differences between the long and short term in applying the principle of sustainability in fisheries. that is, long-term plans aim to set objectives or targets to achieve a stable situation that will be achieved after a relatively long period, while short-term measures are proposed set annually with the aim of correcting for a short period of time the level of fishing intensity, fishing mortality until the level proposed as a long-term objective is reached. as regards the long-term objective for fisheries, the main objective set in johannesburg, namely to achieve a maximum sustainable catch stock, can be accepted. however, it will be important to stress that in order to formulate the objective of maximum sustainable yield, scientific analysis is indispensable to determine the fishing mortality intensity that ensures the maximum catch that the fishery resource can provide in a sustainable way. to do this, it is essential to take account of the natural characteristics of each fishery resource and to know the characteristics and the way in which fishing gear works. in order to assess the level of fishing appropriate to the long-term objective, the projections proposed by scientists must be verified, which means that they must be based on reliable information, adopted by managers and accepted and complied with by the fishing industry, always safeguarding, and i always stress, the socioeconomic situation of the fishing sector and of the fishermen. in practice, the aim is to estimate long-term catches and the corresponding levels of fishing mortality intensity. this requires choosing a criterion on sustainability and determining the level of fishing that produces the maximum sustainable catch value. this is where the real debate begins. there are different fishing mortality intensity levels currently proposed for the long-term management of stocks in the exclusive economic zones of the member states. several scientists consider the fishing mortality intensity level designated as f0.1 to be preferable to, for example, fmsy, which they consider less appropriate. it should be noted that fmsy, which is a value of fishing mortality intensity, should not be confused with msy, which is the catch rate. as a final consideration, i would like to support the need for sustainability measures to be accompanied by an assessment of the socioeconomic consequences and costs of their implementation.
mr president, the simplification of legislation cannot mean a reduction in the rights of consumers. what needs to be done is not only to maintain existing rights in current legislation - including financial services - but to improve where they are not sufficiently covered, such as in the area of telecommunications and energy. as stated in the proposals put forward by my group, the existence of a horizontal instrument in this area should focus on defining a limited set of general rules common to all vertical consumer protection instruments, ensuring a high level of consumer protection and using the approved method of minimum harmonisation, coupled with the country of destination principle, so as not to compromise existing national standards. it is unacceptable that a directive on consumer rights should take up any idea of defending the country of origin as a general rule, as was intended in the initial version of the directive on the liberalization of services. the consumer must be free to choose the legislation which is most favourable to him. the report we are debating is therefore full of contradictions which must be resolved by the amendments which are before us in order to defend the principle that it is necessary to ensure that the general binding rules for the protection of consumer rights respect the rights existing in each country and do not prevent these rights from being improved. on the contrary, it should serve to promote and improve existing rights. it is also necessary to apply the rules on unfair terms to all negotiated contracts containing unfair terms, even if they have been negotiated individually, while maintaining a system of direct liability of producers in the event of non-compliance with consumer protection. and that is all we intend to be assured. if not, as has already been said, we shall vote against the report.
madam president, the patrie report is about consumer protection. it is a key issue in the european parliament and in the european union, as is demonstrated by the very existence of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. the portuguese presidency's priorities in consumer policy include not only the revision of the timeshare directive but also the revision of the consumer protection acquis, which we are dealing with today, in addition to the community strategy for consumer policy until 2013, and the common framework of reference on european contract law. ladies and gentlemen, what we are really trying to do is to create a genuine internal market for consumers and to overcome the european consumers' mistrust of transnational trade, particularly but not only within the framework of the european union. but to do so, it is necessary to ensure, in line with what patrie says, that consumers know that they can effectively assert their rights in the event of a dispute. in this context i would like to stress the interest and importance of some points in the present proposal. madam president, it is indeed necessary to modernise, simplify and improve the legal framework for traders and consumers, in particular to strengthen their confidence. and in this context it is very important to address the difficulties associated with possible conflicts between the rome i and rome ii conventions, while respecting the rights contained therein and the directive on electronic commerce. the examination of consumer protection issues, particularly when consumers conclude contracts for the supply of digital content, is therefore of great importance. how relevant is the need to ensure the effectiveness of the consumer right in order to strengthen consumer confidence in the internal market, which we believe is essential. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion i would say that a clearer and more integrated legal framework is needed to consolidate the internal market and to increase the confidence of european consumers.
in writing. the problem of drug addiction requires the adoption of a set of transversal policies covering, inter alia, prevention, treatment and reintegration, as well as the fight against drug trafficking, organised crime and money laundering. public policies, which are as much a priority as drug addiction, have serious human and social consequences, particularly affecting the youngest. policies which must be accompanied by other public policies aimed at improving the living conditions of citizens by guaranteeing access to health care, food, housing, the school system, academic success, stable employment with rights, a decent wage, free creation and cultural enjoyment and sport. taking into account its objectives and actions, the specific programme on drug information and prevention promoted at eu level could contribute to the increase of knowledge, the exchange of information and the prevention of drug use, supporting and complementing the measures developed at the level of each member state. the (insufficient) approximately eur 21 million allocated to the 27 countries during the period 2007-2013 should therefore be used effectively and fully.
in writing. the international regulation adopted by the who is a new instrument aimed at protecting global health, replacing the old post-war regulation which focused on border control, including health checks on ships and their crews, and included international vaccination against yellow fever and other diseases that have been added. emerging public health issues such as tuberculosis and malaria, and even new ones such as avian influenza and the risk of pandemic influenza, have increased the urgency of international public health information and consultation. the latest epidemics and pandemic threats have shown that no country or region can be guaranteed a health fortress. this new regulation gives priority to the exchange of information and calls on countries to cooperate in responding to global threats, recognising that all countries are important and that mutual assistance is relevant. in portugal, border health surveillance and international vaccination and traveller consultations have received less and less attention, which was largely due to the current government's closure of the regional public health centres. without a proper national monitoring system, the contribution will remain mediocre.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the disease, including through the development of a global strategy to combat it. it is also true that these negative consequences are felt both in the countries directly affected and in their neighbours. for this reason, at least, and in the knowledge that the european union must take account of the fact that it is in the vicinity of areas in the process of desertification, the next eu-africa summit must address this issue in a conscious and consistent manner. on the other hand, on another scale, but without being unforgiving, the question of desertification is also relevant within the european union itself, so the reform of the cap, which is absolutely necessary, will have to take account of the need to combat desertification, and a policy that succeeds in fixing the populations in rural regions is important. politics and politicians are expected to take a long-term view in order to respond in a timely manner to the problems that arise; is the case of desertification: history books are full of lessons that we must learn in time.
in writing. there is no doubt that the universality and indivisibility of human rights must be promoted, 'understood not only in the sense of civil and political rights but also as social, environmental, economic and cultural rights'. however, the report contains contradictions. for example, by stating that dialogue with a third country on human rights will take place with the agreement of that country, while at the same time threatening that, in cases where the latter refuses, the eu should consider ways of acting in that country, using for this purpose the so-called 'financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide'. would the eu countries accept the application of this measure in a reciprocal manner? obviously not, because the 'dialogue' on human rights with third countries is not about human rights in the eu, but in those countries. this example helps to illustrate what is actually intended: the attempt to use human rights as an instrument of pressure and interference, according to the conveniences and interests of the major powers of the eu. the report, which is aware of this possibility - and reality, which it does not even assume - stresses the need for 'coherence' and 'credibility' on the part of the eu. the silence on the cia's criminal flights speaks for itself.
in writing. the sustainability of fisheries resources is a necessary condition for ensuring the long-term viability of fishing and the fisheries sector. the safeguarding of the sustainability of resources through the implementation of long-term plans and short-term measures should necessarily involve the assessment of their socio-economic consequences and, consequently, provide for the financial means to ensure the continuity of vessels, employment and income for the sector and fishermen. this is the relationship which, in our view, will best reflect and should underpin the application of the principle of maximum sustainable yield. in other words, the 'maximum sustainable yield' should not be used as an instrument to promote (even more) the killing of vessels and the destruction of jobs. resource sustainability plans and measures should be based on scientific fisheries research, not forgetting other measures that take into account the consequences of natural and human factors with an impact on marine ecosystems. we therefore proposed that the report should include the need to increase the funds for scientific research in fisheries in the seventh framework programme for research and technological development. finally, we stress the importance of the participation of fishermen in the definition of all these policies.
in writing. we regret that the majority of the european parliament has rejected the proposals we have made, which bodes ill for the simplification of consumer rights legislation. we may be faced with an attempt to diminish and limit these rights, especially in the more advanced countries. we regret that they have rejected the proposals put forward by my group, namely the definition of a limited set of general rules common to all vertical consumer protection instruments, ensuring a high level of consumer protection and using the approved method of minimum harmonisation, coupled with the country of destination principle, so as not to compromise existing national standards. as we have said, it is not acceptable that a directive on consumer rights should take up any idea of defending the country of origin as a general rule, as was intended in the initial version of the directive on the liberalization of services. since the report has retained the various contradictions and negative aspects, we voted against it and will be very attentive to the development of the situation.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now four years since i had the opportunity to speak in this house against the flagrant violation of human rights in burma and to express the hope that we could find a better situation in the future. unfortunately, this has not happened because the human rights violations in that country, if they have changed in any way, have been to get substantially worse. the expulsion of the international red cross is, in this respect, highly symbolic of what is a totally intolerable regime. and what we in the european union have to see is what our policy is in the face of this violation, because it is hard to understand that for seven years we have not had any summit with africa because the zimbabwean regime is a very violent regime that does not respect human rights, but that when it comes to burma we no longer do the same because, obviously, business interests in asia are much more important than those in africa! this doesn't seem tolerable to me.
i should like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with the military and the leaders of the associations representing members of the armed forces who are the subject of disciplinary proceedings for exercising and defending the legitimate rights of members of the armed forces in portugal in the context of their associational activity, particularly with regard to the whole range of socio-professional matters which these associations have long been putting forward for the necessary dignification of the military condition. i would also like to recall the recommendation of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe on the human rights of members of the armed forces of 11 april 2006, which considers that members of the armed forces are citizens in uniform who should enjoy the same fundamental freedoms, including those set out in the european convention on human rights and the european social charter, and have the same protection of their rights and dignity as any other citizen.
although trains continue to present themselves as a safe, environmentally friendly means of transport capable of transporting large quantities of goods and passengers in comfort, speed and quality, the truth is that we are far from an open and competitive railway system in the community. only a framework of liberalization can provide the conditions for investment, both financial and technological, and the dynamism needed for railways to be more attractive, more efficient and more interoperable. the result of the conciliation of the third railway package is another step in this direction and we hope that the joint will of the council, the commission and parliament which it reflects will provide a strong and coherent political signal to mobilise the necessary long-term investment measures which the sector lacks. i would like to congratulate our colleagues jarzembowski, savary and stercks on the excellent work they have done, which has enabled us to be here today to discuss principles and guidelines in various areas. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european railway system is fully operational and that the railway system is fully integrated into the internal market. it should also be noted that the follow-up of the procedure has been ensured as the further opening of the railway market will be addressed in a new commission communication scheduled for 2012. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. now, mr president, we know that there is a long way from the legislative formulation to its full implementation, and that is the distance we must cover in order to ensure the dynamic and consistent development of this mode of transport.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner barrot, distinguished rapporteurs, the certification of train drivers is an important step in community transport legislation and can give a new impetus to the revitalization of the community railways, and in this process gilles savary has played a decisive role. it also seeks to stimulate the use of rail mode by creating incentives to improve the quality of service and to strengthen the rights of drivers and passengers by strengthening the most favourable conditions for a modal balance. the revitalization of rail transport in the european union is thus an important contribution to a sustainable transport system and to the completion of the european single market. this legislation will thus strengthen the single market in the railway sector, particularly in international passenger transport, as is stated in the proposal for a directive on the opening of the market for international rail passenger services. the procedures for the certification of train drivers in the european union are also established and the legal provisions we are discussing also strengthen the rights of passengers on these rail transport services, which is why the joint debate on these three reports and these three directives is of interest. the directive on a joint draft adopted by the conciliation committee, a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the certification of train drivers on the community rail system, thus creates specific legal rules for the recognition of professional qualifications in order to ensure the mobility of train drivers throughout the european territory and at the same time facilitate the mobility of international rail transport within the european union. these are positive aspects which we should welcome. the measures necessary for interoperability are being developed further by harmonizing legislation on the training and certification of train drivers, which is also very positive. this is a significant step forward in the completion of the internal market in rail transport, with a clear guarantee of the rights of workers, companies and, finally, of the passengers who are the european citizens who elected us. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr dirk stercks, mr georg jarzembowski and, last but not least, mr gilles savary, on their work. thank you very much for your attention.
as is well known, we are very critical of this reform of the sugar sector. we have always defended food sovereignty and therefore we consider it unacceptable that a country like portugal, with only one sugar factory in coruche and a small factory in s. miguel in the azores, which barely covered half of the country's consumption needs, should be faced with the obligation to reduce the sugar production quota from sugar beet. the consequences are clear: the abandonment of production by farmers and businesses leads to more unemployment and has negative effects on the development of rural areas. as thousands of small and mediumsized farmers in the streets of porto said on 17 september at the agriculture council meeting in portugal, it is therefore necessary to change policy to take account of the specific situation of each member state and its own production and consumption needs, guaranteeing farmers' incomes and the development of rural areas. and that is what we are proposing to the commissioner here again.
the topic we're discussing today has been on the agenda since american giant mattel recalled 21 million toys from the market for being dangerous. today i salute the commissioner for her promise of firmness and action. i just hope he does it effectively before the rise of the euro and the christmas season invades the european market with dangerous imported toys. but two questions remain unanswered. firstly, if the mattel case had not occurred, can the commission guarantee that the safety of european consumers would deserve this attention? what practical lessons does the commission draw from this on the meaning of the ce mark, the role of controls on producers and importers and, in general, the effectiveness of enforcement mechanisms on the european market? secondly, this is not a short-term problem. what is happening to toys is also happening to textiles and many other products. the high standards of environment, health and quality set in the european union are permanently destroyed in practice by imports, subcontracting and relocations by european companies themselves. how does the commission intend to overcome this fundamental contradiction in today's global market? thank you very much for your answers.
in writing. we know that community statistics on education and training have been developed over the last decade on the basis of an informal agreement between the member states following the council resolution of 5 december 1994 on the promotion of statistics on education and training in the european union. these statistics are collected by the member states and transmitted annually to the commission (eurostat) on a voluntary basis through a joint action with the oecd and the unesco institute for statistics, commonly referred to as 'uoe data collection'. eurostat is also collecting data on education, training and lifelong learning from other sources, in addition to collecting data on vocational training in enterprises. they are now trying to define and formalise the creation of community strategies in a new legal framework in order to put in place a viable system of producing statistics in these sectors, but with some gaps and confusions that needed to be clarified during the parliamentary debate. the final text therefore seems to guarantee greater transparency, and it is also hoped that its implementation will not result in disproportionate administrative and financial burdens.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. we recall that in previous ep readings we put forward proposals to reject this initiative of the european commission. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to impose a fine on the applicant for the infringement of article 108 (3) of the treaty. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the liberalisation of rail transport is intended to hand over the (most profitable) lines to large private interests by privatising their operation (in particular by granting them concessions) and promoting the formation of monopolies at the expense of the public purse. rail transport is a strategic sector for the development of a country because of its importance in the movement of goods and services and in the mobility of workers and populations, with enormous benefits for the environment and for social and territorial cohesion. what is required is the promotion and development of public rail transport systems in the various countries and not their privatization. that is why we are voting against it!
in writing. the proposal for a directive on the certification of train drivers on the community rail system is part of the so-called third railway package, the main aim of which is to promote the liberalization of international rail passenger transport. here again, and before any other consideration, it should be stressed that the first objective of this directive will be to remove any obstacle to the liberalization of international rail passenger transport by the possible existence of differentiated standards as regards the requirements applied to professionals in this sector in each country by means of their harmonization. this measure will also encourage labour mobility in the sector. in addition to the important set of issues raised by this directive, it should be stressed that the adoption of harmonised rules at community level on the certification of railway professionals in each country should never call into question more progressive rights or standards already established at member state level, nor alienate the prerogative of each member state to establish them. here too, the reality shows that it is the liberalization and privatisation of rail transport that has put workers' rights in question and reduced their numbers in the railway sector, with serious consequences for the level of service provided.
in writing. the so-called 'third railway package', which has as its main objective the promotion of the liberalisation of international rail passenger transport, includes a regulation on 'the rights and obligations of rail passengers'. before any other consideration, it may be stated that the essential objective of this regulation is to remove any obstacle to the liberalization of international rail passenger transport by the possible existence of differentiated rules as regards the rights and obligations of passengers in different countries. in addition to emphasizing this first and central aspect, we certainly consider it essential that passengers' rights be safeguarded, starting with the right to a public rail transport service provided by publicly owned companies in each country. the reality is that it is the liberalisation and privatisation of rail transport which is putting passenger rights at risk: have worsened the services provided to the population, their mobility conditions and transport tariffs; have meant the removal of hundreds of kilometres of railway track, the closure of stations; the commission has also been informed of the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. disastrous policy that workers and populations resist.
in writing. the reality is that in this sector, as in others, promoting the renunciation of quotas and the abandonment of production by small producers - as is proposed for sugar beet and sugar production - in order to promote competition has negative effects, accentuates development inequalities and will increase rural abandonment and poverty. we therefore criticise these proposals by the european commission and insist on the need to reverse this policy, to take account of the specific reality of the member states and their production needs. in this sense, we are in favour of food sovereignty and therefore we consider it unacceptable that a country like portugal, with a very limited sugar production, which was barely enough to meet half of its consumption needs, should be faced with the obligation to reduce the sugar production quota from sugar beet. we consider it essential to reverse the liberalizing trend which has accompanied successive reforms of the cap and to take measures to maintain national sugar beet production, advocating an agriculture which is essentially geared to food production, and thus helping to safeguard the production of both companies and employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the thomsen report (a6-0287/2007) on a roadmap for renewable energy in europe because i believe that increased investment in renewable energy is essential to reduce the european union's external dependence on energy supplies, to reduce co2 emissions and, consequently, to contribute to combating climate change. this report highlights the importance of sustainable use of biofuels in the transport sector to reduce oil dependence and greenhouse gas emissions, thereby reducing the environmental impact.
in writing. this is a very unbalanced report, despite some positive changes compared to previous reports, in particular when it admits the inevitability on the horizon of the exhaustion of fossil energy resources, not to mention peak oil, and when it takes on the environmental and social damage associated with agrofuels, which until recently were still heavily indebted. but then it forgets the need for a different definition of the priorities of energy policy, which focuses on reducing costs for the consumer, on rationalising consumption with a view to reducing it (and not just on energy efficiency), on less polluting public transport, on a real public policy in the interests of the population. when he talks about the idea of establishing a common european energy policy, he is trying to find ways of giving greater support to the private economic groups in the sector, overriding the sovereign right of each member state to define its energy policies. it also omits the analysis of gaseous biofuels, failing to mention the need to promote research and development on biomethane and failing to mention the target 2020 programme. the main objective is to secure ever-increasing profits, in particular by using the market for transactions in emission rights for so-called greenhouse gases.
in writing. the increasing consumption is a sign of a general (though not always balanced) improvement in living conditions. in this sense, measures to counter the negative effects of consumption growth must bear in mind that one of the factors in the equation, consumption growth, is unchanging. the commission has therefore decided to take two measures: rationalising consumption and increasing the efficiency (especially in terms of energy) of what we produce. it follows that much of what we should be looking to do is through research and innovation. as the adopted resolution very rightly points out, 'renewable energy sources are a key element in a sustainable energy mix, contributing to: less dependence on imports and diversification of the fuel mix; reduction of co2 and other emissions; development of new innovative technologies; and creation of employment and regional development opportunities'; concluding, inter alia, that more use should be made of eu research and technology programmes to encourage the development of renewable energy technologies. to sum up my position: i agree with the approach and i am in favour of increased investment in this perspective. that explains my vote in favour in the first place.
i might remember victor hugo saying that blood washes with tears, not blood. when europe defined its values and made abolition of the death penalty a condition for its arrival and its existence, it defined a code of principles that marks it as the home of the enlightenment, as the territory in which law cannot exist without the moral foundation of a sublime human dignity. the fight against the death penalty is the fight of civilization against barbarism. the fight against official, calculated and cold, organized death. death becomes the rule, not the rule of law because the death penalty is beyond the limits of the law that deserves the name. death that comes from a brutal and illegitimate rule. the fight against the death penalty is a matter of universal justice because it touches the essence of humanity and imposes itself on our relationship with the world. that is why europe must not forget that countries such as china, iran, pakistan, iraq, sudan and the united states tragically share this barbaric mechanism of the death penalty. europe has no right to be complicit in all this. as you cannot do it in your inner dynamic. europe must remind poland that the fight against the death penalty is part of the a priori principles of justice, without which it is not possible to be european. and on the european day against the death penalty it would be good to ask, and i ask the portuguese presidency, how can a country decide against the consensus values of article 6 of the treaty on european union? and i ask the portuguese presidency whether unanimity can be used in matters of consensus on the constituent rules of the union. if unanimity is not only directed at what divides us and not at the basic consensus that shapes us. these are the questions i leave to the presidency and the reflection i leave on europe and the european day against the death penalty.
the bad country, portugal, was a pioneer in the abolition of the death penalty in 1867, and that is why i am most proud of this initiative by the portuguese presidency to establish a european day against the death penalty in line with all the action of portugal internationally, in the european framework and at the un, for the abolition of the death penalty and of the protest committed to the governments that stand out in the application of this inhuman practice, namely china, the united states and iran. it is absolutely shocking to me that the polish government has tried to block this initiative with the kind of contradictory, opportunistic arguments it invokes on top of that. the polish people must know that the kaczynski government is not only doing a disservice to the european union and its fundamental values, it is doing a disservice to poland's good name, to its prestige. at stake are the most essential values that distinguish civilization from barbarism. the portuguese presidency cannot remain, it cannot be intimidated by the opposition of the polish government. it must maintain the proposal, bring it to a swift vote in the general affairs council, let the polish government choose isolation and go ahead with the celebration of the european day against the death penalty on 10 october.
mr president, mr secretary of state, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-brazil strategic partnership does not undermine the regional balance, nor the eu's economic and trade relations with other partners in latin america. on the contrary, it does favour these relations, as stated in the joint declaration of the eu-brazil summit of 4 july. today's question has the advantage of provoking debate on eu-latin america and eu-brazil relations, both of which are of the utmost importance. as has been said here, this eu-brazil partnership has filled a gap. it was not acceptable that the eu's strategic partnerships with the bric countries should be missing the "b" of brazil. the portuguese presidency was therefore right to promote the eu-brazil summit, as it had done in 2000 when it held the first eu-india summit, which did not damage relations with the other countries in the region. i would therefore like to stress that the conditions are now better for europe to give a new impetus to relations with mercosur and the doha negotiations. the strengthening of the eu-brazil dialogue therefore makes perfect sense as it will allow deepening cooperation in key sectors such as energy security and sustainable development, biological diversity, climate change, the fight against poverty and exclusion, democracy and human rights, etc. brazil's demographic weight, economic development and political stability make it an unavoidable player on the international scene. europe has only to gain by considering brazil as a strategic partner. as the secretary of state has already said, the relationship between the union and brazil cannot be analysed in a purely economic context. this is a reductive view which ignores historical ties, cultural and linguistic affinities, cooperation between universities and many common interests in various fields.
when asked what contribution a strategic partnership between the european union and brazil can make to the development of the relationship between the eu and mercosur, with a view, among other things, to the conclusion of the ambitious and long-delayed agreement, i think the answer will have to be one and the same: that contribution is of the greatest importance. at the same time, it must be said that a strategic partnership between the union and brazil would always be justified and that the only shortcoming in this matter is the time that has already been lost. of the four countries known as bric, brazil, russia, india and china, the union had not yet met at the highest level with brazil until the summit on 4 july. this is all the more anomalous when we consider that this country is the largest regional power in south america. it is a democracy, with the imperfections of recent democracies, that fits within the same framework of values as ourselves. it is a traditional and reliable ally and an economic partner of the greatest importance, both at regional level and even in the global economy. all of this justifies a strategic partnership with brazil, because this country is a strategic partner of the european union in its own right. but deepening relations with brazil and developing a strategic partnership is justified for another set of reasons. as stated in the commission communication, this relationship can and should be a driving force for the development of the dialogue with mercosur. the two partnerships are not antagonistic, they are complementary. it can and should be a factor in the search for solutions within the world trade organisation. finally, it can and should be a sign that the european union recognises the special importance of this country in international relations and that it intends to take this into account in the context of the discussion on the reform of the united nations. mr president, there is an increasing need for the european union to act as an economic partner on a global scale and a strategic partnership with brazil is a sign that we want to go down that road. that is where we must go if we are to get a deal with mercosur. to exclude brazil from privileged bilateral relations would be an injustice and, above all, a serious political mistake.
the summit with brazil was on the agenda of the portuguese presidency from the outset. it was clear that the parties intended to lay the foundations for the establishment of a strategic partnership. it is therefore pointless to express any surprise or concern at this time about the failure of mercosur and the undue or premature favour shown to brazil. the size of the brazilian trading market for european exporters should not be underestimated. the european union cannot miss the opportunity to achieve a strategic partnership with brazil. the facts show that the european union's relations with mercosur and brazil are, for the time being, doomed to two speeds. it's not ideal, but you don't see that the higher of these speeds is detrimental to the other. on the contrary, it may even constitute a high stimulus at a certain acceleration. brazil is now an emerging world power, the only one among the mercosur member states whose market accounts for 85%. it's a representative democracy. it is one of the european union's main trading partners, a country whose 200 million inhabitants speak one of the most widely spoken european languages in the world, portuguese, and whose civilizational and cultural values are closely related to those of europeans. without prejudice to the advantages that the union will derive from real progress in relations with mercosur, i conclude that there was and is no compelling reason to delay the progress and deepening of our relationship with brazil. the european union also has no duty to police the internal vicissitudes of mercosur members. to think otherwise and to postpone the achievement of very important objectives of the union to an imprecise date is, with all due respect, wishful thinking incompatible with our times, and to assume as true assumptions and wishes which have not yet come true and which it is not known when they will come true.
the experience of regional integration in mercosur has been, for the most part, a success, both economically and politically. the contribution of mercosur to the consolidation of democracy in the region and the growth in the volume of trade within this bloc are indisputable facts. it is true that the negotiations between the eu and mercosur are currently at an impasse, conditioned by the expectation that commitments and agreements will emerge from doha, which will constitute a new starting point for our bilateral trade negotiations. i do not want to sound too pessimistic, but we risk the only result of doha being that it has cost us precious time. the eu must contribute to the success of south american regional integration by making every effort to ensure the success of the negotiations between the two blocs. our relationship must be much broader than a mere free trade agreement. what is being discussed here is a global agreement that goes far beyond numbers and quantities of goods to be exchanged. the association agreement includes cooperation and political dialogue, which are fundamental pillars of our future relationship. today, there is no doubt that the european union needs latin america and its great instrument, mercosur, for its objective of building a more balanced and multilateral international order. the joint statement by the president of the european commission and the president of mercosur, the president of uruguay, tabaré vásquez, at their meeting on 19 december, promising a joint public statement by the two blocs on the environment and climate change by the end of the year, is an important example of this political collaboration. mercosur holds great promise in terms of economic integration and the political strengthening of south america on the international scene, but this does not allow us to forget or pretend not to see before us the inevitable political presence of brazil, by virtue of the facts, the leading power of south america. brazil is the soul and the engine of mercosur. with its 190 million inhabitants and an economy that accounts for approximately 75% of mercosur's output, brazil is the only bric country with which the union has never met at a summit until today. ladies and gentlemen, it is absurd to think that the european union is in a position to lecture brazil on the importance of mercosur or to put itself in the position of champion of mercosur vis-à-vis brazil. this is absolutely absurd. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of the world.
in march 2006, the council recognised that the european institute of technology proposed by president barroso would represent an important step towards bridging the gap between higher education, research and innovation. it's obvious. the well-known inferiority of european research and innovation compared with that of the united states means that instruments are available to enable us to be truly competitive with the united states in this area. we all know that researchers have much better working conditions and pay in the united states and that investments in the public sector, particularly in the defence industries, in universities and in the private sector are incomparably higher than in europe. in order to compete, therefore, we need a genuine european engine capable of achieving this goal and that engine must be fuelled with sufficient fuel, that is to say, with adequate budgetary means. the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. it has neglected the fundamental objectives to focus the discussion on this point, putting the cart before the horse. what we should do is to make the council responsible for providing the eti with the necessary resources in the part concerning the union contribution. budgetary fear and probably some corporate academic interests have tainted the whole discussion. if, on the issues of substance, the launch of mit had been treated like that, there would still be no mit today. so i am afraid, mr president, that when the commission proposed a high-performance ferrari, parliament only gave it a small pedal-driven tricycle. i shall vote for the resolution because there is no other, because there is no other, but i am sorry that it has not gone much further, which could have a special added value for us members, that the building in which we are now is the headquarters of the etuc, thus putting an end once and for all to the real political, legal, functional and financial aberration of having to come to strasbourg every month for these plenary sessions.
this report starts from a real problem - the union's energy dependence - but gives the wrong answer. the enemy is not russia, whatever opinion we may have of putin, nor is it algeria, whether we like its military or not. climate change, the weight of fossil fuels, a high-energy lifestyle -- these are the adversaries. internal and external. we're not gonna beat them with cold war security approaches. the security obsession undermines cooperation and induces a domestic politics where everything is allowed: from nuclear fusion to betting on biofuels. just yesterday, le monde was reporting on the findings of paul crutzen: one litre of agrofuel can contribute up to twice as much to the greenhouse effect as its fossil equivalent. i'll end with a quote from joseph socrates: maybe it would be a good idea to go back to listening to the scientists and the economists and not so much the couch geostrategists.
this resolution exposes the glaring inadequacies of european energy policies. the european union does not really exist as a global actor here. those who, like me, believe that the european union should be granted a minimum of strategic autonomy can only observe with concern our vulnerability in this matter. it is not a question of aspiring to utopian self-sufficiency, but of recognising the need for more coordination between national policies, ensuring solidarity between member states and developing relations with less asymmetrical, more predictable and rooted in a truly european approach global partners. for example, it is up to us europeans to make impossible the 'divide and rule' which has marked relations with russia in this matter. this report emphasizes the political dimension of the european energy market. as long as the member states, in an approach comparable to that of the european defence equipment market, insist on promoting a sovereign and anachronistic protectionism at home and a liberalism more adam smith-like at home, europe will continue to flounder in a world where all the major players see energy as an eminently political and strategic issue. the rapporteur's proposal to create a high-level official is useful in this respect and should be implemented as soon as possible. but the eu is not only faced with the strategic imperative of security of supply. the very sustainability of european energy policy and the environmental implications of the lack of diversification of our energy sources require an urgent change of course. in this sense, europe cannot continue to prolong corrupt and oppressive petro-regimes. the eu's external energy policy must integrate into its strategic criteria imperatives of human rights, good governance and environmental sustainability. in conclusion, pollution and the post-kyoto scenario, the price of oil, moral and human rights imperatives, political and economic instability resulting from dependence on hydrocarbons, the potential of new environmental technologies to stimulate a new industrial revolution in europe and the world - all of this is conspiring around us to force the eu to develop a multifaceted but coherent external energy policy. i would like to conclude, madam president, by congratulating the rapporteur, mr saryusz-wolski.
on behalf of the pse group. other i also welcome the presence of the commissioner and i would like to say that the current situation on the cereals market requires us to think but above all to act and i welcome the commission's proactive approach. the socialist group shares the commissioner's analysis of the present situation and agrees that the health check will give us the opportunity to analyse this problem in depth and to take the most appropriate final decisions for the future. we are also fully aware that the problem we are facing will not be solved by simply eliminating set-aside in the context of the transitional decisions we are preparing to take, but we agree that they can make an important contribution to the rebalancing of the market next year. we share the view that this measure will enable at least half of the present 3.89 million hectares to be returned to production in a pessimistic scenario, and that this could represent, in a year with a normal climate, an additional production of at least 5 to 10 million tonnes, even if this is partly less productive land because it is naturally the least productive land, the land which farmers set aside for set-aside. we think, however, that in order to achieve this objective, the commission should go a little further in this derogation, that is to say, extending the effectiveness of the measure not by one but by two years, and it is understandable that this is because agriculture obviously lacks planning and at the beginning of the next autumn-winter season we will not yet have a final decision following the debate we will have in the context of the health check. i therefore call on the commission to take account of the amendment we are going to table in this connection, which i am sure will be supported by a majority in the plenary session tomorrow. on the other hand, we are all aware that relocating all this area to production will have obvious negative impacts, both in terms of the release of co2 from the soil and in terms of biodiversity, since it is now widely recognised that the most valuable environmental value that set-aside has brought is the soil. we therefore think it appropriate that the commission should undertake an impact study as soon as possible so that we can have useful information for the decision we will have to take on this same subject in a year's time.
in a one-minute speech we only stressed that there must be an end to the security and repressive policies which criminalize immigrants, men and women, who aspire to work and to a dignified life. the immigration detention centres must be closed and the inhumane policy of repatriation must be stopped. we must combat xenophobia and racism and all the policies and distortions which fuel them. the regulation of migrant workers, guaranteeing their labour and social rights, is a necessary condition for putting an end to unacceptable situations of over-exploitation. an effective integration policy is needed, including family reunification. we believe that the creation of a common immigration policy is not the appropriate answer to the questions and problems that arise, as the results of other common policies have shown. the reality of migration differs between the countries of the european union. the decision on this policy must respect the sovereignty of each state, which of course does not prevent the necessary cooperation in this field at the level of the european union. more than a common policy, what is needed is another policy and other measures which effectively protect the rights of migrants and tackle the root causes of migration.
mr president-in-office of the council lobo antunes, vice-president of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion is based on two reports which represent two complementary approaches: the action plan on legal immigration and the priorities for combating illegal immigration. to favor one and forget the other would be a grave mistake. they're two sides of the same coin. migration is a phenomenon of great proportions today. it is estimated that there are now some 26 million migrants in the european union, both legal and irregular. migration is a phenomenon that clearly has a european dimension. not only because each member state cannot manage it effectively on its own, but above all because any change in the emigration policy of one member state will eventually have an effect on migration flows and their evolution in the other member states. i am in favour of the idea of the blue card and the creation of a european migration portal to disseminate information on the conditions and possibilities for legal migration in the european union. i welcome the strategy of abandoning the idea of a single directive which has been blocked in the council for several years and adopting a progressive approach which envisaged the submission of four sectoral directives over the next three years. i would stress the need for a policy of development aid, with the conclusion of agreements with third countries, for the effective management of emigration. cooperation with countries of origin is essential in the fight against trafficking in human beings and in combating illegal labour. finally, mr president, border control and the use of the resources already created, such as frontex and the rabbits, which must have the means to operate, must also be ensured.
in writing. i voted in favour of the paasilinna report on the european institute of technology because i believe that it will make a decisive contribution to boosting the competitiveness of the european economy by allowing for greater synergies between innovation, research and education. i therefore support the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, which seek to define clearly the sources of funding for the future european institute of technology, so that it can be operational as soon as possible and successfully fulfil its mission, in line with the objectives set out in the lisbon strategy.
in writing. our position on the creation of the european institute of technology is very critical, following the position taken by various research organizations. for example, last year the league of european research universities presented a study concluding that the european institute of technology plan was "badly conceived and doomed to failure", and euroscience, a pan-european movement of scientists and policy experts, called it "a politically determined idea based on a wrong premise". uk science adviser robert may says it is "based on a misunderstanding" of innovation. this institute will be virtual, staffed by scientists, based in eu universities, research laboratories and companies and will not award degrees, contrary to what was originally proposed. after pressure from several countries, who wanted to keep the institute, it became virtual, a kind of consulting office for scientific communities in different fields. the european parliament itself has just approved several amendments to the commission's proposal, but we do not think they are sufficient to correct what has gone wrong. as regards financing, one of the possibilities is the community budget, including funds for research, which can be another way of supporting the more developed countries, thus contributing to the aggravation of inequalities.
in writing. the european union is today at a real crossroads in its ability to compete with the rest of the world. although we have many attractive factors, whether historical and cultural, economic or touristic, we cannot escape the great challenges of global competition with the new emerging asian economies. now our capacity to be an enticing space in terms of knowledge and innovation has been called into question. with the vote on the european institute of technology, i believe that an important step has been taken towards building a framework for european action in the context of the growth and development of our economy, based on the triangle of innovation, research and education. i believe that it is neither low wages nor cheap labour that can make us attractive for investment and for the growth of our societies. the future belongs to those societies which invest in equipping their populations with specialised skills, helping their societies to interact with industries and businesses to devise the highest quality and innovative responses to the dynamic and demanding needs of markets.
in writing. agreeing that it is appropriate to allow, for 2008, the cultivation of set-aside land for agricultural purposes, we considered that a longer-term derogation should be provided for and therefore submitted a proposal for 2009 and 2010 which was approved to include 2009. this will enable farmers to plan better in the face of exceptionally high prices on the cereals market. however, this measure does not resolve the fundamental question of the need to increase production and supply in each member state and employment in rural areas. we also draw attention to the shortage of cereals on the eu market and to the negative effects of a bet on biofuels, such as the one decided by the council, both on supply and price. we reiterate the need for a thorough review of the cap to take account of the characteristics of the soil and biodiversity of each country, to adapt to a possible rotation of production and to guarantee farmers adequate incomes without compromising the interests of consumers in healthy and quality food.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on 'dangerous toys made in china' because i consider it essential that all the necessary legislative and administrative measures be taken to ensure that consumer goods, marketed in the eu, fully comply with the eu standards and do not endanger the health and safety of consumers. i therefore consider it desirable that the toy directive 88/378/ec be revised as soon as possible and that it include relevant and effective product safety requirements.
in writing. safeguarding the safety of products, in particular toys, is a priority concern for the protection of public health and, in particular, of children. the necessary verification and control of product quality is an essential mechanism for achieving this objective. it is for undertakings and the competent national public authorities to carry out such control and certification in a preventive manner. since the safety rules which products must naturally comply with are laid down by law, it is up to the undertakings responsible for their design, production and marketing to assume their responsibilities. the first reaction to the importation from third countries of products, including toys, which are unsafe or harmful to health, was to try to shift responsibility to others, to the extent that the financial times reported that mattel had formally apologized to the chinese government and people. it should be stressed that many of the imported products are manufactured in third countries, but they are owned by large multinational companies in the eu, which, in the interest of profit, have relocated their production. on the other hand, to focus the discussion of poor quality on imported products alone is to ignore the fact that many products produced in the eu also do not meet the standards in force.
in writing. energy is a central strategic issue of our time. the various eu countries, which are highly energy dependent, are aiming to dominate the exploitation of existing energy resources, hence the proposal to create an energy component in the common foreign and security policy, which, if implemented, would also be a way of overcoming the contradictions between their main powers. to do this, the eu should proclaim its 'market' and 'competition' and its enlargement to other countries, in the framework of so-called 'energy communities', the 'energy charter treaty' - 'guaranteeing investments' and 'the right to compensation in the event of expropriation and/or nationalisation' - or the inclusion of 'energy security clauses' in trade agreements. everything he can control, hence his dread of creating "a gas version of opec". the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, adopted on 26 june, calls for the eu to take action to prevent the further spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the territory of the former yugoslavia. iraq, afghanistan, africa? what are you talking about?
in writing. given the growing importance of the energy sector in contemporary societies, on the one hand, and the growing international interdependence, which is also a common feature of this time, on the other hand, it is impossible to exclude energy policy from the external dimension of european policy, either at the level of the member states or at the level of the common foreign policy. i therefore agree with the resolution in that it states that 'while member states should retain their sovereign right to make strategic choices regarding energy savings, exploit their energy resources and make decisions on supply structures, it is necessary (to promote a common approach, not necessarily a single policy) to cover security of supply, transit and investment in the context of energy security and (to) promote energy efficiency and savings as well as (...) clean and renewable energy sources, in particular in relations with countries whose energy consumption is growing rapidly'. but as for the idea of a senior official for external energy policy, this dimension must be present in the action of the european foreign policy officer, because i do not think that a more specific approach makes sense than this.
in writing. although it includes important points on immigration issues which we have long advocated, the report does not denounce the current eu policies and guidelines which are criminalising and repressive in relation to immigration, but rather integrates them as one more element. the report adopts the concept of the existence of different 'categories' of immigrants - whether 'highly qualified', 'seasonal' or other - and their management according to the need for labour in the different eu countries, in particular by creating a so-called 'blue card'. a dehumanizing view of immigration and immigrants. on the other hand, the report advocates the creation of a common immigration policy, which we consider to be inadequate and unrealistic, both in view of the results of other 'common' policies and in view of the different realities in the member states. we reaffirm that immigration policy is a matter for each country and its democratic institutions. as we have said, what is needed is not a common policy but a policy, within the framework of cooperation between member states, which promotes the rights of immigrants, in particular by ratifying the un convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families.
in writing. the debate on immigration too often focuses on the issues of illegal flows and often forgets legal immigration, this important contribution to our economy and to our cultural enrichment. in this perspective we agree on two fundamental concepts: a clear and effective policy on legal immigration is one of the keys to the issue of illegal immigration; a generous and commonly-based welcome that promotes the integration and adaptation of those who arrive. but it is also necessary to recognise that migration flows, immigrant communities and host countries have distinct traditions, habits and memories and that these differences cannot be ignored. another topic in this debate is skilled immigration. the idea of a blue card, which would make it easier to enter and move around, may be interesting, although it seems too complex for the time being. in any case, the central question must be that of attractiveness, particularly at the academic level. and here it is important to raise awareness among educational institutions of the need to be able to attract students from other parts of the world. and, of course, support that cause.
in writing. this report too, although it contains some points with which we agree, falls within the security and repressive vision of 'illegal immigration'. even if mitigated in some respects, the report advocates the promotion of the main pillars of the current eu guidelines and decisions on immigration, including: the so-called 'european return policy', i.e. repatriation; the work of frontex in border patrolling and control; the so-called 'temporary reception centres'; the development of biometric data collection tools; or the so-called 're-admission agreements'. the report also proposes the creation of 'european patrols', a 'european maritime border surveillance system' and an 'automated system for controlling entry and exit from the eu'. in other words, the report seeks to strengthen the eu's security policy and criminalise 'illegal immigration', transforming it into a common eu policy - repressive, with dangerous information systems, measures and infrastructures for the detention and deportation of immigrants - which we clearly reject. the application of this repressive logic culminated in the authorities of one member state charging seven tunisian fishermen with having saved 44 people at sea, in compliance with the conventions of international maritime law.
in writing. effective policy intervention in the area of illegal immigration must address two aspects of the problem. about the origin, and about the destination. or, as the adopted resolution says, 'the authorities of the countries of origin, the strengthening of the legal and criminal framework to combat trafficking networks, the fight against illegal employment and trafficking in human beings'. without firmness in these areas there will be no adequate response. even if this response involves other dimensions, such as development cooperation and action also in the field of legal immigration. in addition, and in line with what we have included in the report on the european maritime strategy, any immigration policy that is intended to be effective within the framework of the european union requires, as the adopted resolution states, respect between member states for the following principles: solidarity, shared responsibility, mutual trust and transparency. we are in full agreement on this.
until the day in september 2006 when president bush confirmed the existence of secret prisons in third countries, the portuguese government relied on assurances from washington that the sovereignty or legality of european allies had not been violated. but from that date onwards, and since it was proved that several renditions had operated across europe, it was essential to investigate whether portugal or portuguese agents had been involved and, above all, to prevent their further involvement. but to my sadness and shame, the ps, my party, the party in government, voted against the constitution of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on 10 january 2007. and yet, there were already more than a hundred stopovers at portuguese airports by planes involved in the renditions programme. the portuguese government has never submitted to the national parliament or to this parliament, despite repeated requests, the lists of passengers and crew members of the most suspicious flights which the sef has been able to reconstruct. the portuguese government also did not allow the director of the secret services and his predecessors since 2002 to be heard by the european parliament mission that travelled to lisbon in december 2006. the portuguese government has not provided the national parliament or the european parliament with the repeatedly requested list of civil or military flights to and from guantanamo that pass through portuguese territory. until december 2006, the government denied such flights. but they were registered, and the compiled list included 94 overflights and 17 landings, mostly by american civilian and military aircraft, between january 2002 and the end of june 2006. there is evidence that several of these planes were transporting prisoners from the incirlik base in turkey to guantanamo, including the bosnian six. once the list reached the european parliament, the portuguese government did not dispute the authenticity of the list, but went on to claim that the guantanamo detention centre is not synonymous with the guantanamo military base and that flights to this military base would be "normal" and under the auspices of the un or nato. the secretary general of nato subsequently denied this in writing. in january 2006, i gathered testimonies of prisoners being seen chained at the lajes base in the azores, being transferred to american planes. these testimonies were confirmed by journalists and reports were published including photographs of the buildings. mr president, a judicial inquiry is under way in portugal today. unfortunately, it was not decided by the portuguese government, it was my initiative. but the truth will come out in the face of the disturbing data collected in this parliament from the time of the barroso government to the present.
on behalf of the pse group. the security council resolution 1778, adopted yesterday, declares that the situation on the border between sudan, chad and the central african republic constitutes a threat to international peace and security. the resolution of this parliament recognizes the urgency of the situation and the responsibility of the european union to protect. the overwhelming majority of members in this house agree with the humanitarian ngos on the ground, agree with the refugees in the region, living in miserable conditions and in a climate of constant fear, and also agree with the un secretary-general. all of them evoke the urgent need for an international presence in that region which must include a strong military component. and no country or multilateral organization is more suited than the european union to effectively fulfil the mandate that resolution 1778 imposes. esdp has matured and it's for these emergencies that it exists. in this respect, and with regard to the deployment of a european union military force to the region, the council and the portuguese presidency can count on parliament's support in principle. but the european parliament also expresses its concern about certain aspects of this mission. firstly, we fear that the reluctance of the member states to provide the minimum necessary manpower and military equipment will greatly reduce the effectiveness of the force. in addition, the fewer the contributions from the various member states, the more the french component of the force will be highlighted. the perception of the impartiality of this mission is fundamental to its success and france is seen as a rather neutral actor in the region. secondly, parliament called for the deployment of this force to be accompanied by a diplomatic offensive in the region to advance the process of national reconciliation within chad and the central african republic. the roots of instability, while linked to the darfur drama, are also domestic and can only be tackled through internal political processes. as the european parliament resolution states, without a genuine process of political reconciliation in the region, the european union operation, which is scheduled to last only 12 months, will not be able to make a lasting contribution to peace in the region. finally, parliament welcomes the mandate of the force which will act under chapter vii of the united nations charter. it is essential that this mandate be properly interpreted on the ground and that european troops be proactive in protecting civilians in danger, in creating humanitarian space for international organisations and in protecting the un minurcat mission. recent history is full of tragic examples, from kigali to sbrenica, of defenseless civilian populations paying the ultimate price for the timidity and over-scrupulousness of international troops. let us hope that one day this operation will be used as a model example of esdp and effective multilateralism in action and as a full demonstration of the european union's willingness to strengthen the united nations and to contribute to the resolution of conflicts in accordance with international law and the responsibility to protect which it already enshrines.
the question period is now over (b6-0316/2007). the following questions were put to the council. question 1 was declared inadmissible (annex ii, part a, point 2 of the rules of procedure). question no 2 by silvia-adriana ţicău (h-0597/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: prospects for the project galileogalileo is a project of major importance to the european union, which is the result of research and collaboration between member states in the space field and has applications in many sectors, including transport. in view of the impasse in the financing of this project, can the council of the european union indicate what measures it intends to take to resolve this situation and what kind of cooperation with third countries such as india the european union intends to undertake in this project?
question no 3 by mr bernd posselt (h-0599/07) subject: constitutional reform in bosnia and herzegovina how does the council assess the progress of reforms, in particular the reform of the constitution and the dayton agreements in bosnia-herzegovina? what measures does the commission intend to take to promote the renewal and integration of this country?
question no 4 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0604/07) subject: measures to promote innovation in the field of education what concrete initiatives does the portuguese presidency intend to propose to achieve 3% investment in innovation? what will be the participation of smes, particularly those located in mountainous, island and remote regions, in the actions subsidized for the promotion of research and research?
question no 5 by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0605/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: developments in the situation in kosovo in a meeting with the un secretary-general on 10 july 2007, the secretary-general of the council, javier solana, stated on the kosovo issue "...another delay in this issue will not be beneficial". the french news agency, citing diplomatic sources, also reports that 'brussels is seriously considering the possibility of recognising kosovo but in the 'most organised way possible'. how does the council react to this development? can you categorically deny the possibility of unilateral recognition, and furthermore anticipate the procedures at the un?
question no 6 by mr philip claeys (h-0611/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: kazakhstan's candidacy for the osce presidency it is reported that kazakhstan will be a candidate for the osce chairmanship in 2009. the foreign minister of the country holding the presidency represents the osce and coordinates all its activities. as you know, kazakhstan is a country which has never held an election that met international standards and where the human rights situation is appalling. eu member states very often intervene as a bloc in the osce. certainly on such a fundamental issue - that of a non-democratic country running for the osce presidency - unanimity is imperative. this thorny issue will be resolved in november. is there a consensus within the general affairs council that kazakhstan's candidacy is unacceptable? will the member states act as a bloc?
question 7 is now closed since its author is not present. question no 8 by mr robert navarro (h-0616/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: tuna fishing in the mediterranean on 11 june 2007, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 643/2007 oj l 151, 13.6.2007 amending regulation (ec) no 41/2007 as regards the recovery plan for bluefin tuna recommended by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. it is clear from the text that the principle of equal treatment is not respected in the case of european union bluefin tuna fishermen. the minimum weight of fish caught and the fishing periods differ according to the geographical regions. how does the council explain the differences in treatment between mediterranean fishermen and fishermen in the eastern atlantic? the restrictions imposed on french bluefin tuna fishermen fishing in the mediterranean could seriously disturb the socioeconomic balance of the sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the two-week cut in the fishing season means that fishermen will see a sharp decline in their turnover. this situation directly affects about a thousand seafarers and their families. can the council explain why the bluefin tuna fishery would be more harmful in the mediterranean than in the eastern atlantic?
mr president, i cannot give you the floor because i have already registered two speakers. i shall, however, give you 15 seconds more if you wish to put your question immediately because it is not possible, under the rules of procedure, for me to accept three supplementary questions. exceptionally, and with the understanding of everyone present, i'm going to let you continue for another 15 seconds.
question no 9 by mr chris davies (h-0617/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: making eu law public is the council aware of any negative consequences resulting from the decision taken in june 2006 to broadcast on the council's website the proceedings of its meetings where legislation is discussed by ministers?
question no 10 by mr ryszard czarnecki (h-0620/07) subject: situation in afghanistan what role does the council see for the eu in stabilising the situation in afghanistan, where forces from several eu member states are stationed?
question no 11 by mr eoin ryan (h-0625/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: eu response to ending organised crime in europe can the council make a statement on the current level of organised crime in europe and what coordinated initiatives are being taken at eu level to combat the growing threat of organised crime activity?
question no 12 by mr seán ó neachtain (h-0627/07) subject: road safety in the community what measures is the council taking to improve road safety in the european union?
question no 13 by brian crowley (h-0629/07) subject: accession of croatia to the european unioncan the council make a full statement on the current state of croatia's efforts to join the european union?
question no 14 by mr liam aylward (h-0631/07) subject: the use of the european parliament in the european parliament subject: the use of pesticides can the council give a full statement on what structures are being put in place at eu level to achieve a greater level of coordination between the efforts made in europe and america so that the 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 can be achieved?
ladies and gentlemen, you will note that the following three questions all concern pakistan. unfortunately, i cannot use the rules of procedure to ask the council to reply jointly, since the council has structured its work in a different way. i would like to draw attention to the need for parliament's form and, in particular, to the attention that members must pay to the necessary reform of this request for questions, which i think we all agree on, but which unfortunately we cannot yet apply with more flexible rules because we have a rules of procedure to which we must adhere. so i'm going to have to put the questions one by one, which means that probably not all three will be answered, but we'll see as the course of the work leads us to more or less productivity. i shall begin with question 15, the heritage of the pakistan armed forces, which is a question from mr rutowicz, and i ask the council to answer this question directly. question no 15 by mr rutowicz (h-0637/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: heritage of the armed forces of pakistan it is common knowledge that the armed forces of pakistan control the economy and administration of the country. will the council undertake an analysis to assess the total wealth accumulated through economic activities related to the armed forces, while pakistani society has been impoverished?
questions 16 and 17 are now closed, since their authors are not present. question no 18 by mairead mcguinness (h-0639/07) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: european union solidarity fundcan the council make a statement on the effectiveness of the european union solidarity fund?
question no 19 by mr bill newton dunn (h-0641/07) subject: building peace in the middle east is the council making proper use of the eponymous talents of the british consul general in jerusalem, mr. makepeace?
question no 20 by mr gay mitchell (h-0644/07) subject: number of members of the european parliament by member state will the council propose changes to the allocation of the number of seats in the european parliament by member state?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question 31 was declared inadmissible (annex ii, part a, point 2 of the rules of procedure). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.35 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
i would like to congratulate mrs descamps on her excellent report. it is a document which makes a very important contribution to the question of the relationship between digital technology and cultural heritage. it provides for coordination of efforts between national institutions, including libraries, and in the future other institutions linked to culture. by taking a practical approach to works in the public domain; by proposing the effective exploitation of synergies and the transmission of good practice between the actors involved in the process at all levels; by calling on the member states to stimulate the project and to find ways of avoiding duplication of efforts in the digitisation of funds; and by launching a vector for the coordination of all these efforts, the descamps report sets a new benchmark for this legislature in terms of the relationship between the most advanced technology and european culture of all time. when we talk about european culture, we are also talking about universal culture. not only because europe's cultural heritage deserves this label, but also because europe's cultural diversity itself is a fully open system, and this will have positive repercussions as the project progresses. it is also a project which has evolved. it started as a "chauvinist" fallacy to compete with google, but was, after several vicissitudes, re-framed in more sensible, more realistic, and more productive terms. it was no longer what the financial times then called "a blatant case of misguided and unnecessary nationalism". the european digital library is distinctive in that it is a european union project, aims to reach all libraries, builds on existing initiatives and aims to cover all categories of european cultural heritage, not just printed material. there are certainly a number of problems: finding funding partnerships with the private sector, avoiding as far as possible that the speed of implementation is very different between member states, solving some technical aspects in coordinating access to digitised works, preserving digitised content, solving the issue and the integrated search engine on meta-information for documents in image mode and direct search for documents in text mode, finding solutions for interoperability of content, making multilingual search by subject or keyword possible, in addition to the situation of making it current by title or author. we must not forget that the exchange of experience between institutions, especially with the american institutions, and a strong research and development component will be essential for the success of the project. in this context, by voting in favour of the descamps report, this house will have taken a real step towards the future, whether it is a majority of women or a reasonable percentage of women and a percentage of men, mr president.
one of the areas of education which is still very poor in some countries of the european union, particularly in portugal, is pre-school education. i therefore think it is important to stress the call to the member states to increase investment in a public network of kindergartens with quality trained educators, capable of reaching all children, which is one of the most effective tools for developing their intellectual capacities, laying the foundations for the next levels of education, raising the general level of skills, significantly improving the equity of the education system and combating social inequalities. it is also important to focus on the quality of public primary and secondary education, which should be universal, compulsory and free of charge, with the aim of providing basic education and basic skills, contributing to the realization of social and civic values of solidarity, education for peace and equality, strengthening social cohesion and inclusion. as regards higher education, it must be recognized that it is a fundamental sector of developed societies and that it is therefore necessary to combat failure and early school leaving, as is still the case in portugal, where unfortunately about 40% of students do not even finish secondary education. budget cuts in public education, the increasingly high costs of higher education and the difficult social situation of a large percentage of families and young people prevent portugal from rapidly improving the higher education of its population, maintaining the worst rates in the european union. however, if we know from studies that for each additional year of average school attendance, productivity increases selectively by 6.2% in an average eu country, we can better understand the difficulties of countries that do not provide a high quality public education for their population.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the excessive deficit. other as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to stress the importance of adopting some of the proposals in our opinion which were not included in mrs kauppi's report, and ask for your support for their adoption in this plenary given their importance to millions of women farmers and rural people whose work needs to be more visible by including them in agricultural statistics rather than as household statistics. it is essential that their status as women farmers is fully recognised and that equal rights and opportunities are realised, including in social security systems. that there is effective protection of maternity and easier access to health, education, lifelong learning, child and family support facilities, including childcare centres, cultural centres and local markets, which requires greater investment and better public services in rural areas. only in this way can we help to combat the high levels of poverty and isolation of women in certain rural areas and achieve greater social cohesion.
in 2005, in my report on the lisbon strategy in a gender perspective, i warned of the various discriminations to which european women are subject. two years on, many speeches and good intentions, many debates and conferences, many reports and studies, what has changed? what progress has been made in terms of the gender pay gap or women's participation in decision-making or the reconciliation of work, family and personal life, not only for women but also for men? while there has been progress in some member states, unfortunately at european level very little has changed. the pay gap remains at 15%, and women's participation in decision-making has increased by only 1%. women continue to devote three times as much time as men to family responsibilities. and yet, women are more numerous in universities. they are slowly asserting themselves, but there is still a lot of discrimination, particularly when they are mothers and just because they are mothers. maybe that's why the birth rates are so low. and migrant and refugee women, women from ethnic minorities, elderly women, women with disabilities, these are doubly discriminated against. we need better laws, such as the equality laws that have been passed in countries like portugal and spain, but we also need existing laws to be enforced, including advertising laws, to stop degrading representations of women in advertising and the media. you have to change the laws to change the mindsets. we need fewer words and more results.
in writing. the report takes stock of the european commission's recommendation of 24 august 2006 calling on the member states to coordinate their efforts to create synergies at european level in the digital field by proposing the creation of a european digital library in the form of a common multilingual access point to europe's cultural heritage. on 13 november 2006, the council unanimously endorsed these recommendations. the european parliament has given a favourable opinion but it is making a set of proposals which are intended to be clarifying, taking into account all the problems that may arise, including the work on the conceptual and technical organisation of all categories of cultural material, the stages that need to be taken into account and the potential offered by copyright-free written material. although we have doubts about several of the proposals in the european parliament's resolution, we voted in favour of the idea, but we stressed the need to protect copyright, to protect linguistic and cultural diversity, to promote solidarity and economic and social cohesion, so as to ensure that an interesting idea does not become another reason for discrimination and social exclusion.
in writing. we voted against this report, although we consider that it has some positive aspects, because we disagree with the general context and positions defended in it, both as regards the objectives of higher education and as regards tuition fees, ignoring the fact that the difficulties of disadvantaged groups cannot be solved by mere financial incentives such as those announced for portugal. that's not the way to improve equity in access to higher education. even if we use the rapporteur's arguments about the influence of education on economic growth by 'increasing human capital and the capacity for innovation', considering that by increasing the efficiency of education and training, individuals and society as a whole get a return on investment that can reach 8% per year, we can see what countries lose by not decisively investing in higher education that is accessible to all segments of the population. recent studies show that 75 million eu citizens - or 32% of the workforce - are insufficiently educated. in 2010, only 15% of new jobs will be available to this group of people, most of whom come from disadvantaged sectors of society. this would justify the need to ensure effective equity in education.
in writing. 'in no case shall the death penalty be inflicted' is the second paragraph of article 24 of the constitution of the portuguese republic. as we have said on several occasions, we support the initiative to submit to the 62nd session of the united nations general assembly a motion for a resolution calling for the adoption of a universal moratorium on the death penalty - which, as has been indicated, already has the support of some 95 countries - while moving towards the abolition of the death penalty. the abolition of the death penalty is an aspiration of millions of men and women around the world, with an increasing number of countries having established a moratorium on its application or having abolished it in their domestic legal order. as we have already said, this would be a civilizing step which it would be important to extend to other countries. this initiative can help to do so. in this way, we join our voices with those who, in a coherent way, aspire and struggle to put an end to the culture of violence, the trivialization of death, aggression and war.
in writing. the abolition of the death penalty on a global scale would be a clear sign of progress for humanity. of course, there are other horrors being committed, particularly by states that kill without even condemning, but acceptance of the death penalty corresponds to a philosophical conception that should be part of our societies. the proposal for a moratorium aimed at achieving the abolition of the death penalty therefore deserves our support and the commitment of the eu member states. in this sense, a world day against the death penalty could have the effect of 'embarrassing' states that practice it and could thus be positive. as for the idea of a european day against the death penalty, it seems to me that it is a matter of establishing a european celebration against a fact which does not exist in europe, while at the same time, as we know, it involves provoking other discussions where unanimity is lacking. for that reason, i doubt the virtue of this initiative. finally, i did not want this culture of the primacy of life to spread to other areas and other issues, where the defence of life also seems to me to be a sign of civilization.
in writing. there is no doubt that this operation, which is clearly military in scope and under the auspices of the un, is intended to give substance to the interventionist and militarist strategic concept of the european union's cfsp/esdp. for some, this military operation is a real test of the so-called "credibility" and operability of the eu's "european security and defence policy", i.e. its militarization under the command and in the interests of its major powers. the eu's military action, which includes the use of force under article vii of the un charter in a region of africa, is approved by a majority in the ep. this is an act of interference and military 'presence' with neo-colonial ambitions, a real war operation in a region characterized by its complexity and where major interests linked to the control of the immense energy resources are at stake. the real reasons behind the great powers of the eu, particularly france, showing so much "interest" in this region are directly proportional to the results of the prospecting carried out, which point to the existence of large oil deposits and other natural resources. the congo, chad and the central african republic. who's next?
in writing. what has happened in burma proves to the last, as if it were necessary, that democracy (with all that it implies, in particular its greatest strength which is freedom) is an ambition of the peoples. the idea that democracy is not compatible with some peoples or geographies is a huge lie that only the most comfortable realpolitik can accept. that said, it is clear that our proclamations alone do little for the victory of this attempt at a democratic revolution. and to ignore that both china and russia are, on this occasion as on others, demonstrating a foreign policy that is not at all compatible with the values that we europeans and our allies stand for is a grave mistake. the expansion of democracy is a necessity for a peaceful world and supporting democratic movements in concert with our allies is a duty we owe to the values we believe in. finally, i would stress that, on this occasion as on others, it is important to understand the real geopolitics of the region, otherwise we will be feeding a perverse world order.
in writing. we voted against this report because the argument of 'consumer protection' and 'legal uncertainty' is in fact intended to give further impetus to the already extensive deregulation of services and in particular public services, as was made even clearer in the final resolution. if the aim had been the much-needed protection of consumers, there would have been a more thorough discussion of the causes of such 'poor consumer protection' and the meaning of such 'legal uncertainty', namely the deregulation of markets, the privatisation of services, the precariousness of employment and the living conditions of workers and consumers. it is these measures, decided in the name of the much-vaunted 'single market' and 'competition rules', that have reduced duties and made access to the most basic services more difficult. the conclusion that it is necessary to continue and strengthen these policies in the name of consumer protection is therefore not only unfair but also false. the commission itself has already announced its intention to reform and harmonise the various provisions in force on consumer law. the effective protection of consumers requires a break with these policies and the promotion and development of quality public services, the dignity of work and workers.
in writing. we have already had the opportunity to stress, in connection with the 'european year of equal opportunities', that the central issue in the debate on equal opportunities is the guarantee of the exercise of rights. that is, safeguarding and applying the principle of equal opportunities - in particular as regards the non-discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin which this report deals with - presupposes ensuring universal access to and the full exercise of basic rights such as health, food, housing, education, employment, labour and trade union rights, fair pay, culture and leisure, sport, citizenship and civic participation, among many others. however, the report only touches lightly on this issue, which in our view is the central one. it is true that each of us must be fully aware of our rights and be able to intervene and obtain support when these rights are not respected, in particular by guaranteeing free and universal access to justice - a basic public service, the foundation of democracy - but what is required and what is necessary is a profound social transformation that goes deep into the attack on capitalism, which is the root cause of inequalities.
in writing. i am pleased that four of the five proposals which i put to the vote in the plenary on behalf of our group, and which were part of my opinion adopted in the committee on agriculture, have been adopted. i would stress the high levels of poverty and isolation of women in certain rural areas, and insist on the need for effective measures to ensure equal opportunities for women, which should be a central objective in all instruments of the common agricultural policy (cap) and other relevant community policies. it was also important to consider it essential to improve the quality of life of women living in rural areas by ensuring easier access to education and vocational training, lifelong learning, new communication infrastructure, efficient and adequate public health services in the community and child and family support infrastructure and facilities, including day nurseries, kindergartens, schools, cultural centres and local markets. the same is true of insisting on the equal status of women working in agriculture, inviting eurostat to include these groups in its statistics, giving visibility to women's work.
i would like to express my deepest regret on behalf of myself and the group i represent in this parliament for the death of fausto correia. he was a man of conviction, but a man of affection, a very kind and caring man. we miss him so much. the portuguese presidency has shown a determination, which must be emphasized, not to allow the objectives of the treaty to be changed, as agreed by the heads of state and government. we are confident that this will continue and that we will have a new treaty before 20 october. so i won't say any more. as regards the lisbon strategy, i must congratulate the presidency and the commission for finally realising what we have been saying for a long time: that unless the commission is given more powers and responsibility in the lisbon strategy than was done in 2000, the lisbon strategy will not bear fruit. the commission's involvement in the lisbon strategy is a good thing and we hope that this new approach will bear fruit. finally, to say that the inclusion of the issue of globalisation in the discussion of the next informal summit is a good sign, because globalisation is the world we live in today and we cannot imagine that the summit with africa or russia - to whom we wish the best - or the discussion of the exchange rates of the chinese yen or the us dollar are not part of this phenomenon of globalisation. it is important to say, and the commission has said it, that common rules in international trade and openness are important, and reciprocity is important in the case of other partners who do business and trade with us. it is an important point and for that reason alone, or if it were the only reason, it would be enough to praise this communication from the commission. i wish you all the best, mr secretary of state lobo antunes, for this informal summit, which is perhaps one of the most important that we have had in the european union in recent years.
mr president, i should like to begin by expressing, on behalf of myself and my group, our deepest regrets at the death of our colleague fausto correia. as regards the reform of the treaties, the presidency of the council merely reaffirmed that it was anxious to achieve a further, but not the last, step in the process of recovering the draft enshrined in the european constitution, that is, another step in the process begun in june under the german presidency, which seeks to impose the essential content of a rejected treaty by presenting it in a different form, seeking to advance unwittingly and against the will already expressed by the peoples, constituting a genuine political fraud. this treaty is intended to counterbalance neoliberal policies against social rights and achievements, and to respond to the interests of the large transnational corporations. to force federalism under the rule of the great powers in the framework of which the union is given legal personality and powers are withdrawn from the states and to monitor the european union as a pillar of nato, in order to promote interference and interventionism in the interests of the great powers. a treaty which aims to bring about the creation of an economic, political and military bloc with imperialist ambitions. a treaty which will not overcome the deep and insurmountable contradictions of this european integration, but which will, on the contrary, exacerbate them. we will continue to denounce the real objectives of this treaty, to affirm the need to reject it and to call for a broad national debate and consultation of the portuguese people in favour of a europe of cooperation between sovereign states with equal rights to progress and peace. finally, i would like to welcome the big event organised by cgtp-in in lisbon on 18 october.
i would like to begin by thanking you, on behalf of the portuguese socialist delegation, for all the expressions of grief over the death of my dear friend fausto correia. his death leaves us all much poorer, the portuguese democracy, the portuguese socialist party and this parliament too. with one week to go until the informal summit, i want to be optimistic and believe that common sense will prevail. i want to be optimistic and believe that each of the 27 member states will assume its political responsibilities to the citizens of its own country, to the citizens of europe and to the world. i hope that on 19 october the european council will conclude the political agreement and approve the reform treaty, putting an end to this stalemate which has lasted for too long. i am optimistic because we are all aware of the need to respond to the expectations and doubts of european citizens who legitimately wonder about the role of the european union in the world and the benefits that this brings for their future. i want to be optimistic because we all know that the world is looking to europe for a positive sign. we all know that the world needs a united and cohesive europe. we all know that the world does not stop and that europe cannot remain a prisoner of national egos. we all know that we need to break the deadlock to channel our energies into promoting economic development, creating jobs and combating climate change. this is what's priority. the jurists reached agreement on the wording of the treaty and its annexes. the technical and legal difficulties, although complex, have been resolved. the igc has fulfilled the mandate given to it by the council. the portuguese presidency has done everything in its power to overcome the obstacles. the european parliament has done its work both outside and within the igc, where colleagues elmar brok, enrique barón crespo and andrew duff have made invaluable contributions. it means that everyone has so far done their duty with a great sense of responsibility and in compliance with deadlines. it is hoped that no artificial obstacles will now be created, dictated by national political circumstances and not by objective reservations to the content of the treaty. no one would understand that the same heads of state and government who approved the igc mandate would now come to take what has been said for granted. it would be the discredit. we would be entering a crisis of unforeseeable consequence. the text may not be the best, but it's possible and it's better than nothing. let me end with the words of jean monnet, and i quote: "europe will be made up of the sum of the solutions to the crises it can overcome". words of wisdom and foreboding. i hope that europe will be able to live up to the moment to make history, to write another page in the history of european construction.
let's talk about opacity. the charter of fundamental rights states that in europe, and i quote, "no one shall be condemned to the death penalty or executed". okay, but that's not all there is. the source for the interpretation of this article is the european convention and it sets out unacceptable exceptions. for example, states may reinstate the death penalty in the event of imminent danger of war. what is this concept, gentlemen? the same source of law gives law enforcement cover to kill in case of riot and even to, i quote again, "effectuate a lawful arrest". you may remember jean charles de menezes, who was murdered in 2005 on the london underground. was it a regrettable mistake or a crime which the future treaty will eventually give legal cover? today in lisbon, josé sócrates and durão barroso spoke against the death penalty. on what authority do you sponsor a treaty that now admits you through the back door?
the informal summit in lisbon could bring to an end a troubled period in which europe's ambition has been overtaken by the crisis. the new reform treaty will not have the power to rebuild europe, which is the nature of a european constitution. the new treaty is a failure to achieve the lost constitution, it is a small leap in history, not a great leap in history, it is what it can be, not what it should be! but it is a step forward in the way europe is adjusting its institutions to the new challenges of geopolitics and the debate on the future. we must recognize that the emotional field of the referendum limited the impulses of pure rationality of political representation. a public space ill-prepared for a visionary and cosmopolitan attitude led us to a process more timid and more closed than the convention opening a constitution. this fact should not be forgotten by those who sit at the table of the next european council. the council's task is now to ensure the essential unity of the treaty in accordance with the principle of the maximum limitation of exceptions. it is to avoid the erosion that is hidden in the opt-outs, in the original commitments of gentlemen like ioanina, in the derogations from the charter. it is to ensure that the treaty is a unitary order and not a fragmentary order. the other task of the council is to manage the ratification of the treaty, which is essential to prevent a reversal of the european trajectory which is so costly to all citizens. it is time to assume that europe's legitimacy comes above all from the universal values it defends, from the consistency of its democratic institutions, from the project of sharing for a global justice that is born precisely in the excellence of reason. that is the legitimacy of europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the committee on constitutional affairs, by mr alain lamassoure and mr adrian severin on the future composition of the european parliament is an important contribution which points to a balanced and objective solution in a highly politically sensitive matter. i would therefore like to congratulate the two rapporteurs. it should be remembered that it was the european council last june that promised the european parliament to resolve the problem of its future composition by october 2007, so that it would apply as early as the european elections in 2009. to those who feared that parliament would be unable to resolve this issue because of the prevalence of national logics, this report is a good answer and an example of how this institution is able to identify and assert the common european interest in the national dynamics that tend to entangle the intergovernmental sphere. the european parliament's position is important for the smooth running of the igc's work, which is due to culminate in lisbon on 18 and 19 october. it is therefore essential to recognise the political link between the new proposal for the distribution of seats according to the principle of degressive proportionality and the reform package concerning the union institutions, in particular the principle of double majority for determining the council's majority. i take this opportunity to stress the need for the institutional coherence of the reform treaty and for the question of double majority voting, which will apparently only come into force in 2014-2017, not to be codified in the treaties by gentlemen's agreements such as the ioannina compromise, which remain in force but which, if legally recognised in the current framework, would only contribute to blocking decision-making in the council. we have known from the beginning that the question of the composition of the european parliament is not a mere mathematical question. within the limits of the existing constraints, the solution to be found had to comply with three principles: the principle of solidarity, whereby the member states with the largest populations accept to be under-represented; the principle of plurality, allowing the representation of the range of the main political orientations in each country; and the principle of effectiveness, limiting the maximum number of members to a level compatible with the role of a legislative assembly. using the principle of regressive proportionality, the rapporteurs reached a proposal which was fairly consensual. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that the european parliament does not have to consider the agreement reached perfect in order to give its political assent. the current text, with its fragility, strengthens the credibility of the european parliament and is infinitely better than the irresponsible prolongation of an iron fist between national egoisms which would bring heavy costs to the union and its citizens. on the eve of an important european council, this house, representing our citizens, i find it difficult to follow the theory that this house also represents the member states, privileges the european interest and trusts that the heads of state will do the same.
in writing. this proposal is in line with the european constitution that they intend to resume at the lisbon summit, around a new treaty, once again betting on the pressures and threats we already experienced before its rejection by the peoples of france and the netherlands in 2005. instead of defending the principle of sovereign and equal states, which would require at least the much-vaunted solidarity of the most populous countries, while respecting the balance in the various institutional bodies (council, commission and european parliament), they are betting on the definition of minimum and maximum limits and on degressive proportionality based on population, subordinating countries according to their population and increasingly impoverishing democratic representativeness. they do not even respect the poor balance that existed before the treaty of nice. for example, portugal loses two meps, leaving it with only 22, while spain gains four, germany loses three but has 96, joined by france with 74, the united kingdom with 73, italy with 72, spain with 55 and poland with 51. the six powers of the european union alone guarantee 420 meps, far more than the majority of a european parliament with 750 meps representing 27 member states. that is why we are voting against it.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. so the expectations for this international conference in november are high. it is the expectation that something concrete will emerge so that solutions to human drama and conflict will actually have a date. the humanitarian situation in gaza is currently degrading, it is degrading. if a few months ago we had a real open-air prison, more and more closed, we have this every day adding death, hunger, fear, the power of weapons and conditioning, inside and outside the walls, the lives of thousands of civilians. humanitarian aid is urgent and in the light of the geneva conventions it is imperative that israel allows it to be delivered. the movement of people and goods must become a reality so that we do not witness a real human tragedy in that area by the sea. the end of violence and the search for an agreement based on existing resolutions which will allow peaceful coexistence between palestinians and israelis are the major objectives which should mobilize us at the next international conference before it is too late.
i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, because this work is indeed bringing us closer together on the two major fisheries issues. on the one hand, to take care of the working conditions of fishermen, and on the other, to bring fisheries closer together through ecosystems. however, i would like to ask the commissioner if he can confirm the financial times report that there is a study commissioned by the directorate-general for fisheries which sharply criticises the effects of micro-management of ecosystems from brussels, which takes a disastrous look at the common fisheries policy over twenty-five years and which states that overfishing is much greater in europe than in the rest of the world. if such a study exists, will it be forwarded to the european parliament's committee on fisheries, and what does the commissioner think of these criticisms?
i would also like to add my voice to the congratulations already expressed to the commissioner for the presentation of the document and action plan on the development of a european maritime strategy, and i would like to say that in the document presented today there are a number of initiatives which we can highlight, including the proposal for a european strategy for marine research, the defence of an integrated approach to national maritime policies or the promotion of networking at the level of maritime surveillance, as well as the commitment to the creation of multisectoral maritime clusters with the corresponding adaptation of their funding at european level, among many others, as is obvious. now, as i close this public debate, i would like to leave the following questions to the commissioner: the commission itself can follow up and encourage much of the action plan presented, but it obviously needs the support of the council and the member states. we have already heard the commissioner say that he expects to obtain this support at the european council in december. the question is: do you expect effective support to bring and keep this strategy at the forefront of the union's priorities or merely formal support? i would like to conclude with the second question: how can we ensure that a european maritime strategy leads to greater cooperation and coordination without leading to a community approach to maritime policy and, in particular, to the community approach to national marine resources?
in writing. the commission presented its proposals for a 'vision' and an 'action plan' for a future 'integrated maritime policy' at eu level. although the necessary analysis has not been possible (and we must not forget that 'the devil is in the details'), i would like to reiterate, as a first reaction, that: - any initiative in this area must safeguard the competence of the member states with regard to the management of their territory, in particular their territorial waters and exclusive economic zones (eezs), in their various forms, such as: exploitation of resources, transport, research, border management and security, spatial planning, the environment or economic activities such as fishing. in other words, the sovereignty of the member states should not be called into question by the assertion of the so-called 'principle of subsidiarity', such a 'trojan horse'. - i know . the 'solid financial basis' for the 'maritime policy' will not be created at the expense of the european fisheries fund, as the new priorities will have to be matched by new and more financial resources. - i know . aquaculture should not be promoted in the same way as the fisheries sector, given its strategic importance for different countries, such as portugal, and its socioeconomic sustainability should be ensured through appropriate policies and financial means.
on behalf of the pse group. other i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done, on the continuous dialogue with the shadow rapporteurs, and on his openness and receptivity to the suggestions which have been put to him. this was a very participatory process, which i consider to be exemplary. the socialist group therefore supports the content of the report and the amendments tabled. we know that when there are problems, whatever their nature, it is always women who suffer the most, all over the world, in europe, in america, in asia, in africa, everywhere. poverty and social exclusion are female, as is violence, psychological violence and physical violence, extreme violence that leads to death. it is this extreme violence that this report deals with, the death of many women in countries of central america and mexico. i had the opportunity, with the rapporteur, as part of the european union delegation for central america, to visit guatemala and to hear the records, the impressive reports of many leaders of ngos. we know that there are many femicides in guatemala and ciudad juárez. the report also stresses that femicide cannot be attributed solely to a climate of widespread violence. it is necessary to take account of the context and the discrimination to which women are still subjected, it is also a real tragedy that in many cases has gone unpunished. there is also the case of two dutch women who were also victims of femicide, and this is mentioned in the report. and so, although there is some progress, some measures that have been adopted, which are not enough, we must go further and, above all, we must have an effective system of protection for witnesses and victims so that those responsible can be punished and that the european parliament, in its missions to these countries, always puts this issue on the agenda.
we cannot remain indifferent to violence against women anywhere in the world, including in our own countries. we therefore pay particular attention to this serious problem in mexico and in some central american countries, where there are still genuine femicides which cannot be attributed solely to a climate of widespread violence. we know that we must also take into account discrimination in the local socioeconomic context, which is unfavourable to women, a situation which is aggravated in the case of indigenous women with high levels of poverty and economic dependency, but to which is added also the action of criminal gangs. it is therefore also here that we express our solidarity with the women who are victims of this violence and our call for women's rights to be respected, their dignity to be respected, naturally supporting the report by our colleague mrs romeva.
our rapporteur, and in this case the european commission, are indeed to be congratulated. it was, as far as i remember, the greatest success achieved in the european union in the fight against smuggling and tax evasion. the message that has already been given here by our rapporteur, and supported so far by all the speakers, is that we must also take this fight to other areas. it is basically a question of ensuring that the trafficking of any kind of substance, like the whole customs system, can effectively protect both the financial interests of the european union and of all the member states, and from this point of view i think there is still a lot to be done and this is what i would like to invite the european commission to work on more closely.
in writing. the harmonisation and reliability of data and information collected on marine activities is of crucial importance for the fisheries sector and all efforts to improve its quality should be supported. in view of the current needs of the sector and ecosystem concerns, the european commission has proposed that council regulation (ec) no 1543/2000 be revised and an examination of the proposal for a council regulation for a new community framework for the collection, management and use of data in the fisheries sector is currently under way in the ep. however, it is necessary to amend the existing council regulation (ec) no 1543/2000 in order to avoid overlapping of the old and the new regulations. the commission's proposal on this subject makes the necessary and logical changes and was unanimously approved by the committee on fisheries, and deserves my vote in favour now in the plenary.
in writing. we consider important the need expressed in the commission proposal, and highlighted in the ep report, to increase transparency both in the financing of the cap and in the accountability of the eu institutions' spending practices, as well as to improve budgetary control. however, we are disappointed that the proposal is limited in scope and that the ep has not been ambitious enough in its report and amendments. in our opinion, there are indeed some proposals which are not practical and even limit the freedoms and guarantees of citizens, such as the one concerning the 'registration or registration of those who use or consult data' on the internet. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the commission's increased power to control the member states is also a controversial issue. finally, we believe that the best way to 'promote transparency and understanding of the cap' - the objective expressed in the proposal - is through its thorough revision.
in writing. the commission's proposal to make certain amendments to council regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 on the financing of the cap is necessary in order to make this process more transparent. i believe that greater transparency, together with better implementation of the agricultural funds, would help to avoid discrediting the european citizens in relation to the cap and the european institutions. i therefore vote in favour of the chatzimarkakis report, which reiterates the commission's position, adding some amendments which i consider appropriate.
in writing. the negotiations conducted by the commission under a council mandate have as their central objective the creation of an open aviation area (eea) between the eu and the us, going beyond the existing bilateral agreements between the member states and the us. the aim is to create a single, liberalised eu-us air transport market 'in which investment can flow freely and eu and us airlines can provide air services without any restrictions, including in the internal markets of both parties'. the eu aims to ensure reciprocity on the part of the us in the liberalisation of air transport, in particular with regard to 'the elimination of legal restrictions in force, both on the ownership and control of us airlines by non-nationals and on cabotage' or 'the right of establishment' and 'state aid'. we therefore reiterate that it is up to the member states, not the community, to conclude such agreements, especially when it is a matter of great strategic importance and the aim is to 'shaping the pattern for greater regulatory liberalization and convergence at world level'. we also reaffirm our opposition to further liberalization of this important public service in each country.
in writing. the conclusion of this agreement seeks to meet long-standing needs on both sides of the atlantic, with clear benefits for consumers from greater regulatory liberalisation and convergence at the global level. the eu will also act as a guarantor of compliance with community legislation. the work done to conclude this agreement is therefore to be commended, as the new legal framework will allow for a far-reaching agreement to create an integrated transatlantic aviation market, beneficial for consumers and businesses. however, it still shows a certain disproportion in terms of the liberalization of the conditions for control of american companies by foreigners and the non-inclusion of cabotage. the crucial suggestion of the european parliament to include the later stages, deadlines for completion and consequences of possible non-compliance in this phased approach to the agreement is therefore to be welcomed. the conditions have also been set for full reciprocity to be restored in the us-us aviation market should the negotiations not reach the balance desired by both parties. in short, a good start for goals not yet achieved.
in writing. the psd meps, although they consider that it is not a perfect solution and that it has the defect of not establishing a rule, but of forcing a new negotiation in the framework of future enlargements, support the lamassoure report on the composition of the european parliament for three reasons: 1. because some member states do not accept a mere definition of general principles and make a strict definition of the composition of the ep a condition before accepting the reform treaty, which could compromise the main objective of the portuguese eu presidency. 2. because lamassoure proposes a balanced compromise solution which respects a minimum threshold guaranteeing the pluralism of representation of small states and takes account of the demographic dimension of the others through a principle of degressive proportionality which ensures a fair relationship between states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. we understand each other. there are many numbers: the first. this proposal means that since 1999, portugal has gone from 25 to 24 members to 22 while germany has kept its 99 members to 96. this means that portugal loses 12% and germany 3%;2. the six most populous countries currently hold about 56% of the seats in the ep, and they will hold exactly that with this proposal: 56%. i mean, they don't give anything. in other words, with the current reform of the treaties, the great powers are imposing their dominance in the council, applying the demographic criterion without any weighting, and they maintain their complete dominance of the ep. portugal is losing! if some people rule, others... some, to hide their complicity with such an unacceptable reality, say that it could be worse. and others think it's natural that only some countries have the ability to defend their interests at the expense of the interests of others. finally, and without forgetting other important aspects - such as the rejection of the creation of a supranational constituency or the fact that the fewer members portugal has the fewer they will be, giving expression to the political plurality existing in the country - we reaffirm that a just solution at institutional level must necessarily respect the principle of cooperation between sovereign and equal states.
in writing. in view of the need to adapt the composition of the european parliament to successive and planned enlargements, i believe that the solution adopted in this report should be consistent with what was previously accepted (nice), not promote the predominance of the most populous states over the rest, maintaining a model of balance between states that is understandable, and be a contribution to alleviating the difficulties associated with the adoption of the reform treaty. so, although i preferred, as the vote shows, an accepted model based on the concept of citizenship rather than residence - because i believe that the link between citizens and the european union should be this and not that - i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the us and its allies, and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the us and its allies. israel imposes a brutal blockade on the gaza strip, creating, as has long been denounced by un officials, a gigantic prison for the palestinian population, depriving it of the most basic human rights and making humanitarian aid by un organizations impossible. it is urgent to break this inhuman blockade, demanding that israel cease its aggression against the palestinian people and fully respect and comply with international law and un resolutions, and urgently provide urgent humanitarian aid to the palestinian people. a just and lasting solution to the middle east will only be possible through respect for the inalienable right of the palestinian people to their own independent and sovereign state, respecting the 1967 borders and with east jerusalem as its capital.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report, which expresses the european parliament's solidarity with women who are victims of violence all over the world, including in our countries of the european union, but which also highlights the seriousness of the situation in mexico and in some countries in central america, where there is still genuine femicide, with thousands of violent deaths of women in recent years, which cannot be attributed solely to a climate of widespread violence. in all this there are cultural causes and socioeconomic contexts unfavourable to women, a situation that is aggravated in the case of indigenous women, with high levels of economic dependence, but to which is added also the action of criminal gangs. we believe that this report can help to raise awareness of this serious situation and thus help to ensure that the necessary measures are taken in the various countries to put an end to femicide and violence against women.
in writing. in view of the rapid growth of air transport for passengers and goods, the commission decided to draw up an 'action plan on airport capacity, efficiency and safety in europe', which includes a set of measures. the european parliament's resolution, although it incorporates aspects with which we agree - for example, in relation to its references to the need to respect social standards and collective agreements, training or the needs of the outermost regions - is part of a vision of liberalising the sector and creating the so-called 'single european sky'. while pointing out that the responsibility for planning airport infrastructure lies with the member states, it advocates a 'common community approach to the need for new capacity, the limitations of future investment in additional capacity and the strategic axes'. the resolution affirms the primacy of 'community competition rules', particularly as regards the provision of groundhandling services, while not ruling out greater liberalisation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all air carriers, including those operating in the territory of the member states. hence our critical position.
in writing. in identifying 'the construction of support airports in the vicinity of congested airports' as one of the solutions to airport congestion situations such as that in lisbon; and in noting that 'traditional airlines, low-cost airlines, charter airlines, cargo carriers and business aircraft carriers have different requirements for airport services and slot allocation', the european parliament values the options which are presented as less costly and at the same time effective in responding to the growth of air transport, taking into account the particular characteristics of this growth. i therefore voted in favour of this report, considering that its ratio is contrary to the position of the cds-pp for lisbon, which is the 'portela +1' option.
mr president, last 18 october the biggest demonstration in the last 20 years took place in lisbon: more than 200,000 people, convened by the general confederation of portuguese workers, expressed their indignation at the neo-liberal policies of the european union, said 'no' to flexicurity, protested against unemployment, social exclusion and poverty in which more than 20% of portuguese people live and demanded a social europe. this important event cannot be ignored by european leaders. we send our greetings to the general confederation of portuguese workers and to the portuguese workers and express our commitment to the struggle for the defence of the dignity of those who work.
mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the best way to celebrate the important result achieved this weekend, thanks to the mandate negotiated during the german presidency and the productive efforts of the portuguese presidency, which i would like to particularly congratulate, is to make effective use of the new institutional instruments and to present the best results. in recent times european citizens have been told, and rightly so, that a new institutional framework was needed to adapt the europe of nice to the europe of enlargement. it is now time to prove that a reorganised europe is capable of fulfilling its new mission. fifty years after the signing of the treaty of rome, the threat to europe is no longer that of war or the perpetuation of walls of misery. the new challenge is to face the global world where more and more people are consuming and producing, where borders are disappearing and no european country has a truly global dimension. we must face the fears of globalisation and the technological revolution and prove that europe, strengthened by the new treaty, is capable of discovering new paths and creating new wealth. but this is also an opportunity to think about new solutions to new problems. the closeness between citizens and community structures, which was easier to achieve at six, twelve or even fifteen, is now the most difficult of challenges. as the european union expands, so too does the centre of power move away from the citizens. this negative effect is evident, for example, in the end of the rotating presidencies of the council or in the abandonment of the principle of one commissioner per member state. we must compensate for this negative effect, and the european parliament is decisive in this task, in order to achieve more transparency and less bureaucracy, more development and less unnecessary legislation, more cooperation with national parliaments and less distance from the citizens, more cohesion and less asymmetries. free from doubts about our internal organization, let us be a symbol of courage and accept the challenges of modern times. it's the ability to do it together that we should be celebrating today.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, satisfaction, joy, success, victory - these are words that have been spoken here today, with due respect, about the informal council in lisbon. the agreement on the new treaty was announced just before midnight on 18 december. it was a historic moment. firstly, because of the results achieved, but also because of the speed of the process. a little over two months of intensive work and negotiating dialogue and already on the first day of the summit it was possible to achieve the desirable consensus. moreover, on the same day an agreement was also signed with the social partners of the european union, employers' organisations and trade unions for the modernisation of the labour market, an important step for the new cycle of the lisbon strategy. the portuguese presidency wishes to congratulate you. it has done its main priority, which is to give europe a new treaty, with recognised competence, and that was a great victory. europe has emerged from a six-year impasse and can now focus on what really matters to its citizens, because, as jean monnet said, we cannot stop if the world around us continues to move and the speed at which the world is turning does not comply with the slowness of the european response. the treaty will be signed on 13 december, followed by the ratification process, which should be swift and smooth. as a portuguese woman, i am very happy that once again the name of lisbon is linked indelibly to a decisive moment in european integration. thank you prime minister jose socrates. portugal has reason to thank you, and the europeans too, for your determination and commitment. europe has come out of the deadlock. thank you very much, mr. prime minister.
mr president, we regret that the lisbon summit has recovered the essence of the content of the european constitution, which was previously rejected in the french and dutch referendums, and has sought to avoid the necessary democratic debate and popular consultation by holding referendums. this is not only a profound disregard for democracy and the sovereign will of the people, but also a sign of their fear of the vote of the people in the face of a treaty which represents a qualitative leap forward in the strengthening of neoliberalism, federalism and militarism, and which is increasingly undermining the economic and social achievements of the workers and the people. but the struggle will continue, as was reaffirmed by the more than 200 000 people who took part in the great demonstration in lisbon organized by the cgpt on 18 october, the largest in the last 20 years, and which the portuguese presidents of the council and the commission have symbolically ignored. it is a record that will also be preserved in the history of this treaty.
the rapporteur. mr president, since we are late, just three brief notes: the european parliament regrets the delay in sis ii; secondly, the european parliament is faced with an urgent situation because if we do not solve it now, the member states may be faced with the need to rebuild internal borders, which is unacceptable. thirdly, the european parliament prefers the technical solution of extending the agreement with sisnet and considers the alternative solution of the agreement with s-testa to be a harmful solution from a financial point of view, but unfortunately we have to have both on the table to prevent the removal of the borders that nobody wants.
, in writing. this convention, which aims to establish the obligations of the parties with regard to the assessment of the environmental impact of certain activities at an early stage of planning and imposes a general obligation on member states to notify and consult on all major projects which may have significant harmful transboundary environmental impacts, was signed by the community and its member states on 26 february 1991 and approved by the community on 27 june 1997. parliament approved a number of amendments, notably the one which broadens the definition of 'public' in article 1 (10) of the convention, clarifying that the public which may participate in the convention's proceedings includes civil society, in particular non-governmental organisations, and the one which opens the convention to accession by countries which are not members of the united nations economic commission for europe, subject to approval by the conference of the parties, which we support. the other amendments are less important and, in principle, do not seem to me to pose any problems. we therefore agreed with the rapporteur and voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and the protocols thereto form part of the list of conventions and protocols in the field of justice and home affairs contained in annex 1 to the act of accession. the convention and its protocols were adopted in 1996 with the aim of establishing a common basis for the criminal protection of the communities' financial interests and entered into force in 2002 following ratification by the then 15 member states. in order to avoid wasting so much time and effort with the laborious negotiation, conclusion and ratification (27 member states) of protocols of accession specific to each of the conventions, the act of accession of romania and bulgaria introduced a simplified system of accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states, based on article 34 teu or article 293 tec. i therefore support this proposal for a council decision which, in a simplified form, determines the date of entry into force of this convention for romania and bulgaria.
in writing. in march 2007, france requested the mobilisation of the egf to cover the redundancies of 1345 workers at renault sa and 1057 workers at peugeot sa and its suppliers. due to the budgetary constraints imposed on this fund (eur 500 million per year), its restrictive eligibility criteria and the number of workers concerned, the amount of the community co-financing granted was eur 3 816 280. we thus find that each of the workers made redundant in connection with renault is paid eur 1 902 and each of the workers made redundant in connection with peugeot eur 1 190. the european commission estimated that between 35,000 and 50,000 workers could benefit from this fund, but eu data show that the number of workers made redundant as a result of 'restructuring' has long since exceeded half a million. this is all the more serious when most of these workers have been made redundant as a result of 'restructuring' considered to be 'within' the eu and are therefore not covered by the eligibility criteria of this fund. what is required is an end to the policy of liberalization and maximum profit which is the cause of relocations and 'restructuring' and the defence of the preservation of jobs.
in writing. the decision to use the new european globalisation adjustment fund and the response to the french state's request is an opportunity that we must follow closely to see whether this fund can actually produce the desired results. as the debate on its creation showed, the fund is intended to be an institutional reform in solidarity with the unforeseen and negative consequences of the globalisation process. it is clear that free market adjustment will always be better than the need for state intervention or similar. in any event, this fund is part of the european union and the solutions adopted by most of its member states to resolve social crises, so the challenge is to ensure that the results of its mobilisation are as expected on the one hand and, on the other, to ensure that such intervention does not send the wrong signals to the market, inadvertently promoting solutions that in the long run create even greater damage. i believe and hope that it will not, but i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mrs christa klaß on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for action at community level on the sustainable use of pesticides because it meets the objective of reducing the use of plant protection products and contributes to high safety standards for man, animals and the environment. i believe, however, that it is essential to maintain the possibility of aerial applications in situations where there is no viable alternative or where land application constitutes a higher risk situation, although in the natura 2000 zones pesticides, in addition to being prohibited, should also be restricted or the risks arising from their use minimised, which requires a specific risk assessment.
in writing. when the 6th environment action programme was adopted, it was recognised that it was desirable to reduce the effects of plant protection products on human health and the environment, stressing the need for a more environmentally friendly use of pesticides and advocating a two-pronged approach with full transposition and appropriate monitoring of the existing legislative framework and the development of a thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides. the rapporteur now considers that the title of the commission proposal is misleading. the proposal for a directive concerns a certain group of pesticides, namely plant protection products. it is therefore appropriate to replace the word 'pesticides' throughout the text by 'plant protection products'. the directive aims to reduce the risks and effects on human health and the environment of the use of plant protection products. however, the measures taken to this end must be proportionate and it must not be forgotten that it is primarily for the member states to contribute to the reduction of the risks associated with the use of plant protection products in the framework of national action plans. it is the only way to take account, as appropriate, of the different conditions that exist at local level.
in writing. i voted in favour of the hiltrud breyer report on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, as it will ensure high safety standards for man, animals and the environment by establishing stringent but simplified procedures and by rationalising resources. the approved report respects the principle of subsidiarity, so that member states can take into account national specific conditions, in particular climatic and phytosanitary conditions, and that appropriate risk mitigation measures can be taken.
in writing. this proposal should follow the rationale of the sixth environmental action programme with the aim of applying current knowledge of prospective and retrospective risk and hazard assessment strategies for man and the environment and of creating coherence with other policies. thus, also following the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides, the regulation should ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, making the precautionary principle prevail, but measures should be proportionate and take into account the principle of subsidiarity. consistency with other policies needs to be more clearly ensured. therefore, the regulation should not run counter to the objectives and quality standards of the water framework directive 2000/60/ec and the directives deriving from it. this objective can be achieved by regular reviews. each member state should retain the possibility to go beyond community standards for protection standards and to take product approval decisions to achieve objectives of pesticide action plans, health programmes or environmental protection measures adopted at national level, based on national specific conditions.
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on fisheries, within its powers, has submitted to the committee on budgets a number of amendments which have been largely accepted and relate, in particular, to the strengthening of european maritime policy in preparatory actions for the sustainable development of a sea of opportunities which are the european oceans and seas, to an increase in resources in the area of fisheries control in order to ensure the sustainability of the seas and oceans and to the collection of information vital for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy, for the operability and efficiency of the community fisheries control agency and, as regards the outermost regions, to ensure the continuity and effectiveness of vital programmes for the minimisation of the constraints which specifically and permanently affect these regions. my report and that of mr virrankoski are a clear signal for the strengthening of the fisheries policy, even with all the constraints arising from the financial perspectives, and i therefore urge my colleagues to support them firmly and to urge the council to take account of the proposals we have put forward and those put forward by parliament.
in the two minutes of this speech i would like to stress once again that the history of the budgetary procedure is repeating itself. the european commission presents the community budget proposal, this time for 2008, the council proposes significant cuts to the commission proposal, and parliament advances a proposal to reduce the cuts in the commission and council projects. all would seem normal, if not all these proposals fall short of the budgeted for 2008 in the financial perspectives for 2007-2013. as in the previous financial framework for 2000-06, the budgetary ceiling provided for in the current financial perspective is not being met, as the community budget in 2007 fell short by eur 1.6 billion in commitment appropriations and by more than eur 8 billion in payment appropriations, without taking account of actual implementation. it is stressed that the amounts in the financial perspective for 2007-13 are in our view insufficient in themselves to promote real economic and social cohesion in an enlarged european union of 27 countries. in essence, all these proposals for the community budget for 2008 meet the demands of the rich countries to impose a ceiling of around 1% of the community rmb, thus reducing their contribution to this budget and minimising their redistributive role. the european parliament's proposal contains aspects which improve the draft presented by the council, such as the increase in funding for cohesion policy, which we also proposed, although it should be stressed that its actual implementation is subsequently largely diverted to the achievement of the objectives of the neoliberal agenda which is the lisbon strategy, which we firmly reject. however, even the european parliament's proposal represents a reduction of more than some eur 5 billion in payments compared to what was agreed for 2008 in the multiannual financial framework. as this is a stage in the negotiating process, we hope that, unlike in the past, the european parliament will at least try to ensure that the minimum amounts stipulated in the 2008 financial perspective are respected as far as possible.
madam president, commissioner, thank you very much for your clarifications, but let me remind you that there are estimates that there are already 200,000 iraqi refugees in egypt; there is no offer from the european commission for egypt. the university of amman just did a study that points to over 1 million refugees - an absolutely disastrous macroeconomic impact on jordan; there is no european commission initiative at this level. even israel is developing a program of medical assistance to iraqi children that is absolutely remarkable. on syria, i am not involved in the discussions that the commission has had with syria, but i have spoken many times with the syrian authorities: which is a fact and that they already have perhaps 2 million more inhabitants. today, madam president, let me just remind you that today, right now, in rabia, on the border between syria and iraq, a humanitarian catastrophe of enormous proportions is unfolding: thousands of iraqis, who followed the rumor that the borders were going to open, have concentrated there and can't get in. the situation is absolutely dramatic and we cannot continue to ignore what is happening.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to put the following question to you in the light of the answers you have given. parliament does not recognise the need for a review of trade defence instruments; the public consultation was in the same vein. the commissioner has not explained to parliament what the point of his proposal is and, above all, to what extent he is changing his proposals and his convictions in the light of the opinion of the public hearing and the opinion of parliament. and that is the heart of the matter, because it is not understood what the interest is in continuing to persist in a review of instruments which we all recognise as useful and which are working well. so this is the question we needed to understand.
author. mr president, commissioner, it is a pleasure to see you here in parliament once again. as you know, we were surprised a few months ago by a change in the market situation for some agricultural products, which we had thought unthinkable a short time ago, a huge pressure on demand with the consequences we have been witnessing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need only remember that while in europe we spend 10 to 20% of household income on food, there are societies where the allocation of that income is 90% and more, and we need only imagine what a rise in prices will mean for these already vast populations in such dire need. we must therefore act, act now, and i welcome the fact that the commission has acted - and rightly so - with some mitigating measures, since the question of reducing set-aside to zero for 2008 was raised at the outset. i wish we had gone further. there are other measures which might perhaps be adopted without additional cost to the community budget, such as, for example, allowing advance payments to some livestock farmers for the aid to which they are entitled, who are of course doubly affected not only by the increase in prices but also by the fact that they have been confronted with animal diseases such as 'blue tongue' for example, and so i think we can go a little further at once. but above all we must go further in assessing the situation, in studying the situation so that we can quickly determine what measures can be taken in the short term in the immediate future. we naturally trust the commissioner and the commission to act on our concerns.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having is of great political importance, given the ethical importance of the subject under discussion. the dichotomy between the protection of intellectual property and the promotion of the health and well-being of the people of the least developed countries reflects a conflict of interests which can only be resolved in the field of the confrontation of values. in a rather simple way we can describe this antagonism with clarity. on the one hand, there is a certain and questionable model of intellectual property protection based on the argument of encouraging innovation and the consequent expansion of scientific knowledge, on the other, there are millions of poor human beings, inhabitants of countries with scarce resources who cannot be condemned to suffer and die for economic reasons at a time when the knowledge available can save their lives. it is clear which side the fundamental values are on in this confrontation. in view of this, several steps have been taken at different times and in different places to make the intellectual property protection regime more flexible in order to promote universal access to medicines. it is clear, however, that the path we have travelled is not enough. the mechanism under consideration is only one way of alleviating such a devastating problem. we need to go further. the european parliament has been making a decisive contribution to the european union's adoption of a position consistent with the values which inspire it. the solution now found reflects this concern and i would therefore like to congratulate the presidency of the council for the efforts it has made to achieve, through declarations and commitments, a position which is able to project europe at its best: that of a political community based always on unshakable humanist values.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european qualifications framework for lifelong learning is a key document for making national and sectoral qualifications frameworks comparable at european level. the certification of qualifications obtained is crucial to allow the integration of the progress made outside formal education, in particular in working life, with the progress made in formal systems. it thus contributes to a greater democratization of the management of one's own professional careers throughout the european union. this directive, as one of the amendments proposed and approved by the european parliament underlines, promotes the validation of these qualifications in accordance with the council's session on common european principles for the identification and validation of non-formal and formal education and training. mr president, we can thus move towards a single european legal framework which is intended to be coherent and not to reduce guarantees in some existing cases. the directive we are discussing will be a decisive instrument for a more flexible labour market, ensuring better protection of the interests of workers and better provision of quality services. and at this point i cannot but congratulate the portuguese presidency in the field of education for the effort it has made to move safely and relatively quickly towards parliamentary approval at first reading. in these circumstances, the work of our fellow rapporteur, mario mantovani, and the shadow rapporteurs, notably françoise castex, is also worth highlighting. to ensure greater efficiency, to extract more benefits from professional and academic mobility in the european area, it is necessary to work even more effectively on the implementation of the european qualifications framework and its articulation with the european credit system and this report promotes significant progress in this direction. this proposal for a directive thus promotes equal opportunities in the knowledge society in which we live, with a view to greater integration of the labour markets of the different member states, taking into account the wealth resulting from the diversity of the different national systems. he deserves our best welcome.
the summit could serve to clarify the ambiguities that continue to affect relations between the european union and moscow. but minister luís amado has already taken care to lower the bar by explaining that the presidency's agenda for the mafra summit is not ambitious. in a recent interview with lusa, his counterpart lavrov complained about the european union's growth malaise, referring to the unconstructive attitude of some members. but what poisons our relations is the slow death of democracy, human rights and a free press and the rule of law in russia and the impunity with which former members of the security forces define the agenda of the russian federation. this is disturbing to european public opinion and is reflected in our relationship. the disease of the european union's growth, disunity, is being treated and the reform treaty is a potent remedy. but there is, unfortunately, no cure in sight for putin's autocratic drift in russia, and if the council of the european union continues to turn a blind eye, it will be even further away.
in writing. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to help the people of germany and france (reunion island) who were victims of natural disasters in january and february respectively demonstrates, despite the delay, the relevance and importance of this fund in helping the member states. and in view of the impasse in the council over a decision on the proposal for revision of this fund put forward by the european commission, it is necessary to reaffirm that we consider it essential to defend the maintenance of the eligibility of regional disasters. the ep also approved that 'eusf intervention should be possible even when disasters, although serious, do not reach the minimum required level, and that aid should be available in exceptional circumstances when the majority of the population of a specific region is the victim of a disaster with serious and lasting repercussions on living conditions'. it is also essential to recognise the specific nature of mediterranean-type natural disasters such as drought and fires - in particular in terms of the time limits and eligible actions - the possibility of higher levels of financial assistance for 'cohesion' countries and 'convergence' regions in the event of a disaster and the evaluation of the creation of an eu-wide agricultural disaster fund.
in writing. the costs associated with the introduction of rules for the protection of intellectual property in the pharmaceutical sector in the so-called 'developing countries' have long been known. the dramatic and unbearable situation in these countries caused by the application of so-called 'intellectual property rights' in the field of health, particularly in the fight against epidemics such as malaria, hiv/aids and tuberculosis, has long been denounced and warned of. in this sense, we believe that this report is a missed opportunity for the majority of the ep to be able, within its powers, to take a humanist position and clearly advocate a policy that would put an end to intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical sector. the majority of the ep, taking refuge in the idea that a negotiation of the protocol would be very difficult, is giving the council a blank cheque by making sufficiently vague recommendations which will lead to a prolongation of the existing situation, creating financial and legal obstacles to countries with less resources being able to access the advances in science and technology in this field. we denounce the fact that it is the multinational pharmaceutical companies which are the main beneficiaries of this inhumane policy, maintaining their fabulous profits at the cost of many lives.
in writing. multilingualism is much more than an expression of the cultural diversity of the european union. in an organisation of sovereign and independent states which come together to seek the greatest advantages for their citizens in collaboration without at any time having abdicated their right to remain what they are free and sovereign states multilingualism is the recognition of the relationship of equality between all its members. that alone would be sufficient to justify the conditions necessary for its maintenance within the framework of the functioning of the community institutions. but there are other factors besides military. abandoning multilingual internal communication potentially reduces the conditions for political action by members of the european parliament, who have every right to express themselves in their mother tongue; on the other hand, by minimising multilingualism in external communication we are distancing an institution which spends a large part of its energies calling for the eu to be closer to its citizens. finally, the economic argument must be countered by an equally economic argument: the linguistic diversity of europeans and the knowledge of several languages must be a competitive advantage, not a cost.
in writing. this report is full of contradictions and we are critical of the commitment of the majority in the european parliament to the establishment of a european qualifications framework, although there are positive aspects, which should be safeguarded, in the recognition of qualifications between the various member states. the final text adopted, however, underlines the federalist nature of the european parliament's proposal by setting specific dates for the adaptation and correlation of the different education and training systems in force in the member states, although it mentions that the proposal will not be binding for the next few years. we stress that education policy is the sole responsibility of the member states and therefore we consider that the proposed 'adaptation' violates this principle. we regard the link with the bologna process and the path towards the consequent commodification of education as negative, with emphasis on 'employability' and the labour market perspective related to the lisbon agenda.
in writing. the globalisation of the economy is a question to which europe has not yet found a clear and convincing answer. a more globalised economy implies a willingness to change, which means more mobility. the creation of a common reference framework for the recognition, comparability and transfer of qualifications originating in different systems is fundamental to the development of a decisive component of the european project, namely the mobility of workers, in this case facilitated by the portability of their qualifications. better training of our workers combined with a homogeneous system for the recognition of their knowledge, skills and competences will enhance their mobility and the development of the internal market. more and better skills of european workers can contribute to better organisation, innovation and competitiveness of our companies.
in writing. in order to fill a gap in the implementation of the extension of the schengen information system (sis) to include the visa information system (vis), the present proposal aims to provide a temporary solution to fill the gaps and the foreseeable disruptions created by the delay in the installation of the 'infrastructure' of the 'new' system, by distributing its costs over the community budget and the member states. it is recalled that what is at stake is the extension of the sis features, developing them, extending access to new authorities and interconnecting them, adding new categories of data (such as the capture warrant and biometric data). this extension from the previous system entails high risks for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens by adding new elements to a database, which is also shared by more bodies, with no full guarantee of confidentiality of the data, and the records may be 'kept for a longer period' and shared with third countries. the basic aim is to adapt the sis to the dangerous and unacceptable objectives of the current security offensive, enlargement and the increasing communitization of internal affairs in the eu, which we clearly reject.
in writing. it is known that in july 2006 the commission presented a thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides, together with a proposal for a directive establishing a framework for action at community level for the sustainable use of pesticides and a proposal for a regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market, with the aim of reducing the overall risks and negative impacts of pesticide use on human health and the environment. the risks associated with pesticide use have been reduced, but in some areas, especially in countries that have long used intensive agriculture, pesticides are still found in soil and water in undesirable amounts. this also shows that countries like portugal with more conventional agriculture should have more support to maintain less intensive agricultural production. on the other hand, we do not consider that the solution is to replace pesticides with gmos. if the undesirable effects of chemical pesticides on human health are known, the precautionary principle must be applied to the effects of gmos on human health, which have not yet been studied. this thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides concerns only plant protection products, i.e. a part of the group of pesticides.
in writing. there are several positive aspects here, notably the recognition of the role of conventional energy sources and their need for energy production, the opening up of prospects for the relaunch of nuclear fission energy and the call for the lifting of restrictions on new coal-fired power stations. it also opens up prospects for carbon capture and sequestration and calls for international cooperation, including with non-eu countries such as china and india. it also emphasises the exploitation of indigenous resources and puts a more realistic plan for the contribution of renewable energies. it welcomes some criticism of the production and use of liquid biofuels and warns of the need for countries to promote more r & d in the energy sector, in particular as a way of overcoming environmental and nuclear safety problems. but it has several negative aspects, the most important of which is that the growing problems of the oil market are associated exclusively with short-term and episodic issues, the strategic issue of depletion is ignored, and the enormous potential of biomethane produced from waste is still ignored, a trend which is already taking place in several european countries. that is why we abstained.
in writing. with the launch of the energy package at the beginning of the year, the european commission made clear the need for a technological action plan for fossil fuels and also underlined the imperative of a pragmatic approach to nuclear energy. the reality is clear: there are no equally efficient and cheap alternatives to fossil fuels, which means that they will remain the central and indispensable component of energy in the eu beyond 2020. this is why we must seek new solutions to the challenge of energy supply in the eu, taking into account the issues of competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply. all investments in the development of new energy technologies are therefore of the greatest importance, both for the reduction of the impact on the environment and the safety of existing installations, and for the development of new energy sources and for a more efficient and cleaner use of fossil fuels. it is essential that the member states and the union focus their efforts on energy research, from the more efficient use of energy sources to new technologies and the cleaner use of existing energy sources, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. we voted against this final resolution because, moreover, it is part of the line of defence of the economic and financial groups, as the rapporteur has pointed out, who withdrew her name from the report before the final vote, calling for a vote against. the aim is to ease the rules and the way for large companies to penetrate the various markets easily, to reap the greatest profits with the fewest obstacles in any member state. we also believe that the fiscal sovereignty of the member states in the definition of their fiscal policy should be respected in any discussion on this matter, which is not the case here. a so-called common european fiscal policy promoting 'fiscal competition' would only serve the interests of big european and international capital. available data show that the average rate of taxation on business profits has fallen sharply over the past ten years, while the tax on labour has remained essentially unchanged. we regret that the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, which stressed the distributive aspect of taxation and demonstrated the transfer of the tax burden from high incomes to lower incomes, were not included in this final text.
in writing. i voted in favour of the karl-heinz florenz report on the green paper on a smoke-free europe: strategic options at community level, because i considered it necessary to take appropriate measures to curb the number of deaths and serious illnesses caused by tobacco smoke. in this respect, i support the proposal that the commission amends directive 2001/37/ec on tobacco products, which provides for the revision of the regulations on the use of additives and other substances in tobacco products, in particular as regards carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic additives, in the light of new scientific developments.
in writing. as we have already said, the negotiations on turkey's accession to the eu raise a number of issues. this is a process promoted by the great powers, despite their contradictions, with the aim of integrating this great country into the eu's 'single market', seeking to control its economy and use its geo-strategic position for its plans in the middle east, the caucasus and central asia. the resolution is also illuminating on this issue by highlighting 'the importance of turkey as a transit platform for diversifying gas supplies to the eu' and 'energy projects involving turkey in the south caucasus' as well as 'turkey's geo-strategic position in the region' whose 'transport and logistics role will become even more important in the coming years'. among other important points to be emphasized are: - turkey has not taken any steps towards recognition of cyprus - an eu member state - and continues to occupy the north of the island militarily and to flout un resolutions; - and that the turkish authorities continue to repress the kurdish people and deny them their legitimate cultural, political, economic and social rights.
in writing. whatever the final outcome, the ongoing negotiations with turkey must promote the reforms that the country so badly needs and which are, in themselves, the most relevant aspect of a country's prospect of eu membership. in this context, we should regard the akp victory as a consecration of economic reforms rather than a vote for islamism. in the light of the latest developments, it must be stated that the kurdish question must be dealt with in collaboration with the united states, taking into account the question of iraq where the kurdish north is a peaceful region; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. finally, it is never too late to recall the geostrategic importance of turkey, whether in the matter of the security of europe's borders, whether in energy supplies, in particular as an alternative to dependence on russian gas, whether as a partner in the dialogue with the islamic countries or, finally, in the matter of iran. for all these reasons, the eu's strategy must be to negotiate seriously and with rigor.
i welcome maria martens for this important report at a time when the eu is redefining its relations with africa, in large part because of china's emergence as an actor in africa. but eu-africa relations can only progress if there is coherence in the development/security approach, in particular with regard to human rights, democracy and good governance. given the importance of the joint strategy of the action plan to be adopted at the eu-africa summit, i would ask the portuguese presidency to inform the european parliament in due course of the progress of the negotiation of these documents and their contents. this can be useful to ensure that the measures envisaged in the joint strategy and action plan can then be put into practice, with the support of the european parliament, in the control of the various applicable financial instruments. in the european parliament we hope that the joint strategy and action plan will reflect the commitments made by the european union, giving due priority to the fight against poverty and the millennium development goals, in particular access to basic health care and education. we want them to include joint measures to control the trafficking of small arms and light weapons, which are the real weapons of mass destruction in africa, and also measures to empower women and civil society. they are the force for change, peace and development that africa so badly needs.
madam president, as stated in our colleague martens' report, with which i largely agree, the fact that the current european strategy for africa has not been drawn up in partnership with the africans is, among other things, a clear limitation on its potential. and there is a mistake that must and will be corrected in the next eu strategy, which must strengthen the role of the african union and be based on concepts of partnership and equality, pursuing a consistent concern for peace, the plight of displaced populations and the fight against major diseases such as aids and malaria. development must be our aim and trade one of its weapons, and this requires support for small and mediumsized enterprises and the promotion of fair international trade. but we will only succeed in this strategy if we contribute to the strengthening of democracy and human rights across the continent. the reformulation and renewal of a european strategy for africa must take account of new local and global circumstances. the fact that we are now in dialogue with an african union is in itself a relevant fact. on the other hand, the widespread increase in consumption, both of oil and food, implies a need to increase production capacity on a global scale and africa is a continent rich in oil and gas, but also with enormous agricultural potential to be tapped. finally, the question of the summit. to have a strategy for africa, it would not be essential to hold a summit, but having been launched by the portuguese presidency, it would be wrong not to complete it. it would be a missed opportunity to positively influence the lives of africans. the discussion can no longer be just about debt forgiveness. greater wealth in the world can, and must, be, madam president, an opportunity for greater wealth in africa. wealth that benefits its people and not just its elites. international cooperation cannot continue to be a problem for africa, as someone has said. that is why we must lead it to education, to health promotion, to democratization and to development.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for your comments, suggestions and even criticisms of what the presidency intends to do in its programme for relations with the eu and africa. of all the suggestions, remarks, corrections, i have obviously taken due note. i should like to make it very clear that what we are proposing in terms of a new relationship with africa has two aspects which i would call innovative, or which we intend to be innovative and which actually prove to be innovative. firstly, we must establish an effective partnership with our african partners, and a partnership which also involves ownership. as i have already said, the strategy we are developing for africa is not one-sided. it is a joint strategy, a strategy which is drawn up, analysed and discussed together so that what it achieves and what it proposes is in fact what our african friends want and expect from us and what we would naturally also like to receive, in the obviously positive sense, from the african side. but we also want to broaden the range of actors involved in this strategy. we don't want it to be, as traditionally, just governments. we want to see other public institutions besides governments, parliaments, as i have mentioned, but also broad sectors of civil society, their representatives and their actors, and we want a second aspect which i think is extremely important: we want to modernise the eu-africa agenda, we want it to respond to new global challenges, to take account of the profound changes the world is undergoing and, above all, to offer africa the opportunity to integrate fully into the new global world. that is why we will discuss and debate with africa such new and modern issues, so to speak, as the energy issue, the climate change issue, issues linked to migration, mobility and employment, without, of course, neglecting issues which remain fundamental to our traditional partnership, such as peace, security, democratic governance and human rights, issues linked to science and the information society. it is an agenda, i believe, that is comprehensive, ambitious, but, as i say, above all modern. we want to modernise our agenda with africa, we want it to be able to respond effectively to what the needs are today. i would also like to say that the portuguese presidency, portugal, has never hesitated to appoint dictators in africa or anywhere else in the world and consequently to denounce them, and will always do so when it sees fit. finally, i would also like to express my appreciation for the work carried out jointly with the commission in preparing all this work leading up to the second europe-africa summit. we have received very strong support, very high quality support from the commission and the commissioners with concrete responsibility in these matters, whether in the field of trade, external action or humanitarian aid, and we are sure that we are all working towards a common goal of making a difference in africa and for africa.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the council for its response to a large number of the interventions, which i can only endorse. many of the concerns expressed are also my own. the commission is trying to bring more coherence to its external action and it is precisely the nature of the dialogue between europe and africa that should enable us to gradually eliminate a number of contradictions, including those highlighted by mr rocard. it is clear that we have sometimes contradictory policies, just think of subsidies in the agricultural sector. it's a contradiction in terms. unfortunately, there are conflicting interests to be chosen, and sometimes they have to be taken on board. i observe that europe is probably the only international actor which is gradually correcting itself and which, obviously, is at least trying to go in the right direction. secondly, i was told about zimbabwe. i'm not going to go back on that. mrs martens answered better than i could. this is an africa-europe summit, not a zimbabwe-europe summit. that's the first element. secondly, i can hear the incantatory calls for mugabe to be denounced. i can do this too, it won't change anything. it's not up to us to invite mugabe. i'm sorry, we can't put ourselves in the shoes of our african partner. and what i have to say to you as commissioner for development, who is responsible in particular for the acp countries, for political relations and for political dialogue with africa, is that we do not have - excuse me for saying this - the right to impose a coercive taxation which consists of telling our african friends: 'you can invite everyone but this one!' moreover, if you will allow me a little impertinence: if we had to judge by the standards of one of the dictators, or i would say personalities that we consider to be appropriate, we would not only have problems with mugabe, we would have others. and, therefore, i would like to point out that too. it's a fact of life. what is important is that the summit takes place and what is important is that at this summit we can talk and put the issue of human rights in zimbabwe on the table. that sounds useful and important, but i want to say it anyway. and so, this summit must take place. it's been a while. there was an africa-china summit. there is an africa-japan summit in preparation and we would be waiting for that summit to take place, i am not sure when. i would also like to say that south africa has been implicated. if any african country is making a considerable effort to try to resolve this issue in the best interests of all, it is south africa. and probably south africa is busy generating, inspiring, working on a major agreement between the majority and the opposition in zimbabwe, which should lead to fair and honest elections in march 2008. it is not over, but at any rate the last conversation i had with president mbeki opens up this prospect in a serious way. so let's not criticize south africa, they're doing the best they can, they're not doing too badly. i would simply point out that, in relation to the financial share allocated to agriculture, between the ninth and tenth european development funds, the agricultural sector has gone from eur 663 million to eur 1 100 million. what is true is that given the increase between the ninth and the tenth edfs, there is a decrease in absolute percentage but, in terms of resounding and stumbling means, there is an increase which is really substantial. and i must say that i was delighted to hear the president of the world bank, a few days ago, in washington, at the meeting i was attending, announce a much greater focus on development in agriculture, and so i completely share your concern, madam president. as regards the role of civil society and parliaments and the pan-african parliament, i can of course only express my full approval of this approach. in short, since the time is very short, i would like to deal with the question of epas again quickly, as i promised. you know my position on these agreements. they are an essential condition for africa's integration into globalisation. the asian examples show that it is not aid that is the most decisive factor for development, but economic development and integration into the world market. i believe that the epas are an opportunity for the acp to integrate into world trade in a gradual way, by first building regional markets. i would like to remind you that on 1 january 2008 we will not be seeing a pure and simple brutal liberalisation. what's this about? in fact, it is a gradual opening of markets with transitional periods of varying length depending on the products, with regional funds to provide financial support, and in particular to deal with the issue of the net tax loss following liberalisation. there are a lot of proposals that i think are interesting. we will also be able to mobilise relatively large resources in a whole series of areas which can create the optimum conditions for making this gradual liberalisation and gradual opening of markets useful, positive and productive. so i understand the apprehensions of both sides, but in relation to this request to postpone the date of the conclusion of the economic partnership agreements, i have to say that i do not see the advantage of this. the wto will not grant us - it is very good to pretend that it is possible - but the wto will not grant us an exception for the acp because our current regime is unfair to other developing countries who are demanding to be treated in the same way as their former colonies. the only alternative is the system of generalised preferences. ldcs will have access to everything but weapons, but for non-ldcs -- and there are 36, i just want to remind you -- that's a step back from their current access. the epas will continue to guarantee this preferential access to our historical partners, but above all they will help to support regional economic integration processes. and i think that's where the real potential is for trade to contribute to development. we are of course aware of the difficulties and the reluctance of our partners and the legitimate fears - i admit - of our partners. that is why we have proposed that we first conclude interim agreements which first of all resolve the trade question by including a reciprocal opening of trade compatible with the wto rules. as i have always said, the access offers of our acp partners will of course be based on the principle of asymmetry. we must remember that we are opening up our market completely and, in terms of flexibility, we will use all the room for manoeuvre available to us to take account of development concerns, including the need to protect the major part of agricultural production or the nascent industries. we are still working on that for the time being. the real challenge is to prevent non-ldc countries from being in a disastrous trade situation on 1 january. these countries obviously have trade issues which are considerable. if the question of access to markets is not settled by 1 january, it is obvious that they will be left with the system of generalised preferences, and so they will be left out, they will be left in a truly catastrophic position. so we have to push for these agreements to be at least temporary. that's it for the epas. finally, i would like to say that i fully agree with what president borrell has said in an extremely clear way. the challenge of both the summit and this strategy is to fundamentally change the nature of relations between europe and africa. to make it possible - i use his expression - to make strong partnerships between peers who respect each other, who have rights and duties towards each other, and to get out of this relationship - i would not say trivial, it is more serious than that - of this outdated, archaic, counterproductive, humiliating very often relationship, from donor to recipient.
in writing. the eu/africa summit should mark a shift in eu policies towards respect for the sovereignty and right to development of african countries and peoples, promoting a more just, peaceful, supportive and humane world. this requires, for example:- immediate measures of solidarity to ensure the most basic needs of millions of human beings;- respect for national sovereignty and independence, non-interference in the internal affairs of each country, the peaceful settlement of international conflicts;- demilitarisation of international relations, the gradual reduction of armaments and military expenditure; - fair and equitable international economic relations, against the impositions of the imf, wb and wto and the 'economic partnership agreements' for trade liberalization; - the cancellation of the external debt, already more than paid; - real policies of cooperation and active support for development in solidarity; and not relations based on neo-colonialist ambitions or paternalistic visions that try to recover the ground lost with the broad process of national liberation of the african peoples - won in the second half of the 20th century -, promote the interference and military presence of the great powers of the eu and the domination and exploitation of natural resources by transnational corporations.
on behalf of the pse group. i am speaking on behalf of the socialist group. this resolution reflects the european parliament's leading role in conventional disarmament, arms transfer controls and the deepening of international humanitarian law. we fought for the extension of the ottawa convention to all types of mines. we have advocated, well before the european council, a global arms trade treaty. the urgent need to transform the european union's code of conduct on arms exports into a legally binding instrument has also been a constant demand of this parliament. this resolution on cluster bombs is looking to the future, to what europe must do to eliminate these weapons which do not distinguish between civilians and military personnel and which take so many human lives. we propose an immediate moratorium on the use, production, stockpiling and export of these weapons. the moratorium must be transformed in due course into a legal instrument which will have the effect of banning these barbaric munitions from the arsenals and battlefields in the long term, just as anti-personnel mines are becoming scarce. in addition to calling on the european union to launch a diplomatic offensive in favour of this new instrument, we want its member states to lead by example and eliminate the use of these weapons by their armed forces, but also to permanently halt their export, production and accumulation. every day in lebanon, chechnya, afghanistan and dozens of other countries where wars have already ended, civilians pay the ultimate price for the criminal and immoral irresponsibility of armed forces which have lost sight of the ethical and legal limits which should guide the actions of civilized peoples. it is up to europe to lead a global alliance that restores, reaffirms and strengthens those boundaries. we urgently need a common position to eradicate bombs and other cluster munitions.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 25 october. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments pending question time.)
ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to question time to the council. as was done yesterday during question time to the commission, we are going to try out new rules, which are provided for in the reform of parliament and are being studied by a special group, and which focus mainly on two areas. firstly, i would ask the members to move to the front benches so that we can give the sitting a more integrated character, and secondly, the supplementary questions will all be answered by the secretary of state for the council after they have been put. so, since there are usually two complementary questions, rather than each one being answered immediately, the council will in the end answer both questions together. the question period is now over (b6-0318/2007). the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0678/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: solidarity fund for disasters in view of the seriousness of the forest fires which have affected some eu countries, such as greece and spain, this summer and the absence of a rapid and effective response from the european union to these situations, does the council intend to examine the rules of the solidarity fund in order to make it possible in the future to provide adequate mechanisms to deal with this type of disasters and to remedy the damage caused?
question no 2 by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0680/07) subject: integrated european policy for people with disabilities does the council envisage the adoption of a joint decision with a view to establishing an integrated european policy for the support, vocational training and integration of disabled citizens?
the three questions which follow, from mr marian harkin, mrs avril doyle and mr esko seppänen, have already been included in yesterday's debate. in accordance with point 2 of part a of annex ii to the rules of procedure, these questions are not admissible and we shall now move on to the next question. questions 3, 4 and 5 are not called because their subject is already on the agenda for this partsession. question no 6 by sarah ludford (h-0687/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of refugees in the european union subject: perpetrators of sexual offences does the portuguese presidency consider that the eu and its member states are taking all possible measures to identify, bring to justice and monitor after conviction perpetrators of sexual offences against children, exchange information on sexual offences against children and protect and find missing, abducted or endangered children?
question no 7 by mr lambert van nistelrooij (h-0689/2007) subject: the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' subject: merger between suez and gaz de france on 3 september it was announced that the boards of directors of the french energy company suez and the state-owned company gaz de france had decided to carry out the planned merger, creating the fourth largest company in the energy sector, after gazprom, electricité de france and eon. the commission has already ordered the merged company to cease a number of activities in belgium and france. does the council consider that these merger projects are still in line with the principles it currently advocates for the liberalisation of the energy market in the european union? to what extent did the new company resulting from the merger and the french state undertake to separate the ownership of the core networks as requested by the commission?
question 8 is withdrawn. question 9 is withdrawn because its author is not present. question no 10 by roberta alma anastase (h-0702/2007) subject: the european parliament has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens subject: facilitation of the issuance of visas for citizens of the republic of moldova and georgia citizens of the republic of moldova and georgia face considerable difficulties in the process of obtaining visas for the member states of the european union. in this context, the entry into force of the agreement between the european community and the russian federation on the facilitation of the issuance of visas has created a paradoxical situation whereby the inhabitants of the separatist regions of abkhazia, south ossetia and transnistria, most of whom have russian passports, benefit from a simplified visa and travel regime. how does the council intend to promote the acceleration of the process of facilitating the obtaining of visas for the citizens of the republic of moldova and georgia and the implementation of the respective agreements? in addition, it is urgent that as many eu member states as possible join the kishinev (chişinau) joint visa centre in order to bring the visa facilitation process to fruition. can the council explain why only a few member states have joined the centre so far and what action it intends to take to ensure that the remaining member states join as soon as possible?
question no 11 by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0703/2007) subject: the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' subject: establishment of a european civil protection force on 4 september 2007, the european parliament adopted a resolution (p6_ta(2007) 0362) on natural disasters, in which it made particular reference to the deadly fires that hit greece this summer. the resolution, like the report (a6-0286/2006 of 18.9.2006) on the establishment of a european civil protection mechanism, among others, recognises the importance of the european civil protection mechanism and calls for the creation of a european civil protection force that can react immediately in emergency situations, as was also proposed in the report by former commissioner barnier. given that the creation of a civil protection force would help, in particular in a subsidiary way, the authorities of the member states bearing the burden of civil protection, what is the council's view on the creation of a civil protection force?
question no 12 by mr bernd posselt (h-0708/2007) subject: the european parliament's resolution on the situation of refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: fate of mr ukshin hoti mr ukshin hoti, a scientist and peace activist of international renown, who was in the 1990s the foreign minister of the unrecognised republic of kosovo, headed by president rugova, was detained by the milosevic regime and disappeared without trace several years ago. could the council try to find out from the now democratic serbian government what has happened to mr hoti? are the belgrade authorities willing to investigate this case?
question no 13 by mr robert evans (h-0710/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of refugees in the european union subject: the use of pesticides does the council still believe that the european union's objective of keeping the global temperature increase to 2 degrees celsius is likely to be achieved? has the council discussed further measures to be considered at eu level to address the concerns expressed in the 2007 report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc)?
we shall try to solve your problem, namely the climatic conditions here in the chamber.
question no 14 by mairead mcguinness (h-0713/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: turmoil in world financial markets the crisis in europe as a result of the instability of the american financial markets was discussed at a recent informal meeting of eu finance ministers (in porto on 14 and 15 september). could the council state the nature of these discussions? has the case of the northern rock bank, which is currently experiencing financial difficulties directly linked to the instability in the united states, been examined in particular? do you think this issue has wider implications for european financial markets? finally, is the council confident that the safeguards currently in place in the field of financial services provide sufficient protection for consumers, in particular those who have acquired financial products outside their home member state?
question no 15 by mr johan van hecke (h-0717/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: increasing number of european agencies there are currently 23 european agencies spread across several eu member states and cities. there is virtually no control over its activities or functioning. the last agency to be set up is the agency for fundamental rights, based in vienna, and currently employs 100 people. the objective of monitoring the protection of human rights in the european union is being pursued, a task which is already being perfectly fulfilled by the european court of human rights and, moreover, by the council of europe, both of which are based in strasbourg. all these agencies absorb around €1 billion in tax revenue annually. some observers claim that it is rare for european councils to not deliberate on the creation of a new agency... does the council intend to create further agencies? is the need for them the subject of deep consideration? is the council aware of the financial impact of these on the european budget? is the council prepared to deactivate some agencies if the reasons for their creation are not confirmed?
question no 16 by mr bill newton dunn (h-0719/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of the refugees in the former yugoslavia. subject: contact network for cybercrime emergencies (network 24/7) the author of this question has learned from us sources that ten eu member states do not participate in the 24/7 cybercrime emergency contact network, namely belgium, cyprus, estonia, greece, ireland, latvia, poland, slovakia, slovenia and portugal, the country currently holding the presidency of the council. how important is the council's view of the fight against international cybercrime?
question no 17 by mrs ilda figueiredo (h-0723/2007) subject: the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' subject: prohibition of visits to cuban citizens imprisoned in the united states of america during the course of this year i asked the us government for permission to visit the cuban citizens rené gonzález, gerardo hernández, antonio guerrero, ramón labañino and fernando gonzález, who are illegally detained in us prisons. however, i was denied that permission on the grounds that i did not know them before they were arrested. i have learned that, once again, in september this year, the visit visas of two of the wives of these prisoners, who have been unable to visit them for nine years because of successive refusals, were also refused. what do you think of this situation, which does not respect the human rights of these citizens? are you available to convey this concern to the american authorities?
it is true, and the presidency is aware of this issue: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in cuba. it is also true that i am a member of the european parliament, i asked to visit these citizens and i was also denied that visit. i am a member of this parliament, not only as a citizen but also as a representative of this european parliament. i believe that both the european parliament and the president, and of course the portuguese presidency, should take a stand on this case too, since it is indeed an attack on human rights and also a lack of respect for this european parliament to deny a visit to one of its members, in this case myself. but there are other members involved in this process, other members of the european parliament, and so i ask you, mr president, to pass on this matter. (the president cut the speaker off)
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.)
on behalf of the pse group. i commend rapporteur marco cappato not only for producing this useful report but also for his willingness to help make it as consensual as possible. his original intentions were laudable. it was about defeating two evils in one sitting: legalizing poppy cultivation and the production of opiates for medical purposes would not only end heroin production in afghanistan, but also the global shortage of pain medication. unfortunately, we have come up against a number of practical considerations, such as the fragility of afghan institutions and their inability to regulate opiate production, the uncertainty about the economic viability of such a scheme or the danger of allowing opium to be reintroduced in some of the 13 afghan provinces that have stopped producing it. my group's amendments have sought to refocus the report on what is fundamental: the fight against opium production in afghanistan, which does not only affect afghanistan and neighbouring countries. the drugs that this opium illegally produces are what some have called genuine weapons of mass destruction and are mainly based in europe. the fight against opium production should be sensitive to the specificities of different regions of afghanistan. only a combination of measures can succeed. firstly, it is essential to combat the rampant corruption in the afghan central administration, particularly in the ministry of the interior and the police, which has paralysed any policy to combat opium production. second, it is urgent to find, capture and prosecute the approximately 30 major traffickers identified in a 2006 un and world bank report, thus decapitating this murderous traffic. thirdly, nato must support afghan operations to combat trafficking, destroy laboratories and warehouses and prevent drug shipments. fourthly, the eradication of smallpox must be carefully and selectively applied and concentrated in areas where farmers have real alternatives. this brings us to the areas of agreement with the rapporteur. we are all against the indiscriminate spraying of poppy fields, as advocated by the united states of america, which will only add to the ranks of the taliban without affecting the production of heroin in a sustainable way. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. above all, this report seeks to encourage the european council to be creative and bold in combating heroin production in afghanistan. there are no easy solutions to this challenge, but we know that the terrorism and violent obscurantism advocated by the taliban and al-qaeda will only be defeated when afghanistan is freed from the clutches of drugs. i have finished, mr president. this report should be seen as an urgent appeal to the member states to spare no effort in economic and political reconstruction of a country so marred by bloody conflicts and so important for regional and global security.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the members who in the libe committee worked closely with me and helped me with their critical contributions, especially mr ignasi guardans, mr demetriou and last but not least mr fausto correia. mr fausto correia, of the socialist group, my portuguese colleague, leaves us all with a great deal of regret. he died after helping me with this job. i think the best tribute i can pay to him here is a kind of public promise that i will try, by my presence in the european parliament, to contribute to the realisation of his ideas about europe, europe as an ambitious project, a visionary project, a giant capable of bringing its culture of rights to the world. i would like to pay this tribute to our member of parliament, our dear colleague fausto correia. i would therefore like to sum up the issues raised in this report without wasting too much time. first of all, i would like to stress that this report is like any other an open report, open to the search for and achievement of the best solutions. the advantage of the french and german initiative, as the commissioner has already pointed out, lies mainly in two fundamental reasons. one is that by facilitating the monitoring and enforcement of alternative measures to prison sentences, we are promoting a political culture which induces a greater tendency in judicial practice to apply these measures. we are promoting the humanization of criminal law in the member states, we are promoting the quality of european criminal law. the second aspect is that this initiative will contribute to the growth of criminal law as a criminal law at european level, increasingly harmonized and less and less feudalised in national spaces. in fact, european integration, which took a fundamental step in the last treaty, the treaty on which an agreement was reached in lisbon last weekend, shows a level of integration that criminal law in the european area has not yet been able to keep up with. it is essential that a culture of not only mutual recognition but also of harmonisation of criminal law be promoted more and more in terms of the design of sentences, the manner in which they are carried out, the relationship between convicted persons and society, and even that a greater degree of equivalence be promoted between the substantive and procedural criminal laws of the member states. article 6 of the treaty on european union, by referring to a set of fundamental values which constitute the common values of the european union, clearly shows that it only makes sense that we should increasingly have a european criminal law. most of these assets are securities protected by criminal law. i would like to make only two or three fundamental remarks on this particular report: first of all, parliament's contribution stressed the need for the distribution of powers between the executing state and the sentencing state. there is a clear logic of the application of the law, each state which uses a certain jurisdiction applies its law to it; the principle of the exceptional nature of refusal in order to give the future framework decision the greatest possible effectiveness; the logic according to which it is impossible to adapt the measures on account of their nature, under the risk of calling into question the principle of strict legality of criminal law, and the need to safeguard the principle of the contradictory in cases of revocation of a suspended sentence or conditional sentence. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that all this progress in european criminal law will, after all, seem to us to be very little in the near future. europe will only be a reality when it has an anthropocentric and cosmopolitan legal system which cannot exclude a more harmonized and less divided idea of criminal law.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would just like to propose an oral amendment to my amendment 2, to clarify the text. i propose to delete the word ‘unacceptable’. therefore, it would read: ‘in clear infringement of the fundamental rights laid down in the european union treaties’. the political groups have already been informed.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. while imposing restrictions on the community budget, the priorities are defined as competition policies - as exemplified by the progressive devirtuation of structural policy, placing it at the service of the 'lisbon strategy' - the communitarisation of 'internal security and immigration control' or the eu's external policy, which promotes interference and the militarisation of international relations. that is why we are voting against it. however, we note the approval of our proposals, such as: - increased funding for the structural funds, the posei (azores and madeira) and progress (equality between men and women) programmes; - support for cooperation between agricultural organisations and other rural actors, small farming and family farming; - increased funding of eur 2 million for the compensation programme for the additional costs associated with the disposal of certain fishery products from the outermost regions, which means an increase of eur 570 000 in funding for the autonomous regions of madeira and the azores.
in writing. among the many aspects that could be highlighted in this draft budget for 2008, we would like to highlight two: - first, how much we regret the inconsistency of this parliament which refers to recognising and 'preserving the linguistic diversity of members of the european parliament' but at the same time refuses to accept the inclusion of a clear reference to the obligation to have all the official languages of the eu available during its meetings, as we have been proposing over the years. hence the incomprehensible and unacceptable rejection - by the committee on budgets - of our proposal to ensure that, for example, at the meetings of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly, portuguese is one of the working languages, particularly in view of the parliamentarians from the different countries represented there who have portuguese as their official language. - secondly, the worrying and growing trend towards increased appropriations for a so-called 'strong information policy' in the context of the (re) 'launch' of the so-called 'reform' treaty and the next ep elections in 2009. it will be enough to follow the debate in the constitutional affairs committee of the ep on the revision of the regulation for 'european political parties' to see what it is really about.
in writing. it is essential that a common effort be made to seek to improve the standards of quality and effectiveness of justice. this is, however, a highly sensitive area characterised by enormous diversity, which highlights the need to strengthen trust in order to allow for the mutual recognition of judicial decisions, thus contributing to the progressive development of a european judicial culture. i support the excellent report by mrs assunção esteves, which, as part of the reinforcement of the principle of mutual recognition of sentences, aims to promote the social reintegration of convicted persons, while at the same time seeking to improve the protection of the victim and the prevention of reoffending. this framework decision aims to establish the rules on the basis of which a member state, within the limits of its competence, should monitor and supervise non-custodial measures (decisions relating to the enforcement of suspended sentences, alternative sanctions and additional sentences) imposed by judgments handed down in other member states. i hope that the portuguese presidency will be able to resolve the remaining issues and that a general agreement will be reached by the end of this year.
in writing. as the report states, the 1999 tampere european council identified the principle of mutual recognition as 'the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters in the union'. a year later, the council adopted a programme of measures centred on this principle, aimed at adapting the mechanisms for the mutual recognition of final judgments and extending the application of the principle of transfer of sentenced persons to include persons resident in a member state. the hague programme later set new targets, particularly in the context of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', to advance the 'communitarisation' of this area which is at the heart of the sovereignty of states. in the light of this proposal, and as our group stresses, it is worrying that it should be stated that: 'despite the need to ensure that the sentenced person is afforded the appropriate safeguards, his participation in the proceedings should no longer be predominant, and his consent should no longer be required each time a judgment is transmitted to another member state for the purpose of its recognition and enforcement of the sentence imposed'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the principle of equal treatment for men and women is respected.
in writing. this partnership agreement was concluded for a renewable period of six years, starting from 1 january 2007, and portugal obtained 7 fishing opportunities for surface longliners, which represents an increase of one fishing licence compared to the one stipulated in the previous agreement. the agreement stipulates, among other things, that at least 20% of the crew of each vessel must be nationals of the acp (african, caribbean and pacific) group of countries. the agreement sets out the implementation of the rules contained in the international labour organisation (ilo) declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, which makes freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of workers to collective bargaining mandatory, as well as the elimination of discrimination in matters of employment and occupation. the agreement also provides that the wages of crew members will be fixed in negotiations between the shipowners and the fishermen or their representatives, and the 'country of origin principle' is accepted, which introduces a factor of profound and unjust inequality. this protocol increases the contribution of shipowners by 40%, from eur 25 per tonne of fish to eur 35, thus reducing the community's share, which we do not think is acceptable.
in writing. we voted against the report as a form of protest against the way the commission intends to allocate fishing opportunities among the member states under this agreement. contrary to what has always happened in agreements of this kind, the commission intends to violate a basic principle which has been a fundamental instrument for ensuring justice and fairness between member states and, in practice, an implied agreement between them. the fact that it does not apply in this case is incomprehensible and unacceptable to us.
in writing. i abstained from voting on my report because, although i recognize the urgency of concluding the agreement and consider this proposal partly positive as regards the distribution of fishing licences, and given the impracticability of amending it, which is the responsibility of the council and the commission, i strongly disagree with the non-compliance with the principle of relative stability which has always been followed in previous agreements. i also regret that, for legal reasons, i cannot present several proposals for legislative amendments to the articles of the agreement, aimed at strengthening mozambican civil society by involving fishermen in the preparation of future agreements and at improving international rules for the occupational categories concerned, particularly as regards the fixing of minimum wage rules for acp seamen. i felt that the european parliament's political mandate is limited in this area, so i tabled other amendments, which i considered legally admissible, aimed at improving the information provided to the european parliament and requiring the parliament and the council to submit a report on the application of the agreement during the last year of the protocol and before the conclusion of any renewal agreement.
in writing. we cannot vote in favour of this fisheries agreement because we consider the allocation of fishing opportunities between the different member states defined therein to be disproportionate and inappropriate, because it does not safeguard the legitimate interests of portugal. this ec-mozambique partnership agreement entered into force on 1 january 2007 for a period of five years and provides for an increase of 2 000 tonnes in the community's tuna and tuna-like fisheries quota compared to the previous one. in the previous agreement, the level of utilisation of fishing opportunities for portugal (5) was very high, which led portugal to apply for 9 licences for surface longlining, plus the maintenance of fishing opportunities, in the demersal deep-sea shrimp freezer trawler category. however, it has obtained only 7 tuna fishing licences. this means that - in view of the previous allocation of licences and the (failure to) respect the principle of relative stability in the face of increased fishing opportunities - there is a marked imbalance in this new agreement: portugal gets only 2 more licences, while other member states get an increase of 16 (france) and 13 (spain) licences. if the council had decided unanimously, this would not have happened. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the regulation on business registers (council regulation (eec) no 2186/93) which compiles statistical information on businesses operating in the european union, including their number, type, size and other characteristics, was intended to provide eu policy-makers with reliable statistical data. on 1 june 2006, the european parliament gave its support to the substance of the commission's proposal at first reading, subject to 22 amendments dealing with the issue of administrative burden, clarification of the terms and conditions under which confidential data may be transmitted and, finally, a number of technical and drafting amendments. in its common position of 21 may 2007, the council fully endorsed the 22 amendments tabled by parliament. but then new bureaucracies created added difficulties to the process, so that it has dragged on until now, with all the costs involved, which is rightly denounced by the rapporteur.
in writing. the increase in food prices which has recently occurred is largely due to the successive reforms of the cap, the abandonment of production which it has promoted and, consequently, the disappearance of many small and mediumsized farms. by ignoring the specific reality of the member states in order to take account primarily of the interests of large agro-industrial companies, multinational food distribution companies and the negotiations for trade liberalization in the wto, it has contributed to changing the basis of agricultural activity with repercussions on the decline in production. on the other hand, the use of agricultural products for non-food purposes, in particular for the production of biofuels, which they seek to give priority, will not contribute to the development of agricultural activity but may, on the contrary, replace the production of foodstuffs and thus have a negative influence on the defence of food sovereignty. we therefore consider it essential to review the objectives of the common agricultural policy with a view to increasing food production, supporting small and mediumsized farms and livestock farming and moderating consumer prices by strengthening intervention mechanisms and ensuring adequate intervention prices.
in writing. although it contains aspects which we consider positive, this report avoids the analysis of the core reality of eu relations with africa, by omitting or bypassing its deep responsibilities and strategic objectives. perhaps the most striking example is its silence on the initiatives articulated within the framework of nato/usa/eu in relation to this continent, such as the creation of specific military commands (usa/africom), the conduct of military maneuvers (nato) or the growing military presence of the major eu powers ("peace support mechanisms", military missions). the report also contains elements that open the door to intervention - disguised as 'humanitarian', 'conflict management' or 'good governance' - and does not denounce the growing subordination of development policy to 'security' strategies - favouring 'development aid' provided by the military or the use of its funds for purposes unrelated to this - instrumentalising it in accordance with the strategic objectives of the great powers, namely the control of the immense natural resources, including oil, of this continent. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the economic partnership agreements are based on the 'dogma' of trade liberalisation as the basis for development. we reject such policies, while supporting the holding of the eu-africa summit.
in writing. the united nations on 17 september called on its member states to take immediate measures to deal with the terrible consequences of the use of cluster bombs, calling for the conclusion of a legally binding instrument of international humanitarian law prohibiting the use, development, production, stockpiling and transfer of such weapons. the united nations calls for the destruction of existing stockpiles of these weapons, calls for risk mitigation activities and assistance to victims, and recommends that member states, pending the conclusion of this instrument, apply a moratorium on the use and transfer of these weapons. as denounced in this resolution, there is evidence that 98% of the victims of these bombings are civilians, causing a high and brutal rate of death and injury, especially among children. the house also voted to extend the deadline for the submission of a report to the european parliament on the implementation of the eu's new energy strategy. it is urgent to put an end to the arms race. the end of weapons of mass destruction, cluster bombs, depleted uranium munitions and phosphorus shells is urgent. that is why we are supporting this resolution.
in writing. the ombudsman's records show that in 2006 he received 3830 complaints. however, the ombudsman considered that only 21.5% of the cases were within his remit and of these, 258 gave rise to an inquiry. in 2006, the ombudsman carried out a total of 582 inquiries, of which 315 had been carried over from 2005 and 9 were opened on his own initiative. it is interesting to note that, as in previous years, the institution which was the subject of the most inquiries was the commission, with a percentage of 66% of the total (387), followed by the european communities personnel selection office (epso), which was targeted at 13%, and the european parliament at 8%. the most cited vice was lack of transparency, including refusal of information (25%), followed by bias or abuse of power and a plurality of other forms of maladministration. however, as the ombudsman himself points out, there are many cases where his critical remarks clearly do not produce any effect, but they are undoubtedly a warning to existing problems, and parliament should therefore give them due attention.
author. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we had the pleasure this week of hearing the nobel prize for literature, doris lessing, who, as we know, is of iranian descent, say what we all think: "i hate this iranian government that is cruel and that is bad for its people". and furthermore, doris lessing told us that the reason no one dares to criticize this iranian government is because of the interest in oil. i think the nobel prize for literature could not have been more accurate in its words and could not have put the question in a better way. we are facing a policy of appeasement which is lethal, not only to the interests of the people of iran but to all those who want peace. the continuation of this policy, the feeding of the expansionist and fanatical instincts of the iranian regime will be the greatest tragedy that we will face in the near future and i think we all have to become aware of this fact and that we have to reverse this policy because otherwise we will have a rather dark future ahead of us and i just wanted to say, mr president, that we should, this house of ours should send a very special greeting to the nobel prize for literature for the very sensible words that he has spoken.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i will read from the press: ‘just after the evening meal to break the ramadan fast on 29 september, around 30 vehicles loaded with several hundred sudanese rebels ripped through the perimeter of an african union peacekeepers’ base on the edge of haskanita, a small town in southern dafur, the embattled province in western sudan where at least 200 000 people and perhaps as many as 300 000 have been killed since the rebellion began in 2003.’ the units of about 100 troops, most of them nigerian, fought off the first attack before falling back to trenches, firing through the night until their ammunition ran out. then, ten were killed. at least 40 fled into the bush. the attackers looted the compound before sudanese troops rescued the survivors. a week later, haskanita itself was razed. when the un inspected the damage, only the school and the mosque were still standing. about 7 000 people are thought to have fled. then, on 8 october, fighting erupted in the town of muhajiriya, controlled by a darfuri rebel faction. scores were killed. no one is sure who the attackers were. even the government of omar el bashir came under suspicion. but it could be the rebels. what we know is that these things will continue to go on until there are international forces with an effective mandate and with effective means there. everybody knows that, and it is time to stop this game of hide-and-seek with the government of khartoum.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, the appalling attack by rebel forces in haskanita against the african union mission in the sudan (amis) was followed by a series of other revenge attacks by government forces against all villages supposed to shelter rebels with tremendous civilian casualties. we must realise that this suits the genocidal strategy of the bashir clique in khartoum to divide and destroy the darfur communities and the rebel groups in order to make peace negotiations, such as the ones that are supposed to start this weekend in libya, go nowhere. that appalling attack and the violence which followed also demonstrate the fundamental limitations of an all-african force in darfur such as amis. it is, therefore, crucial that the african union/united nations hybrid operation in darfur (unamid), which is to be deployed by early january, will actually be duly equipped in full force and capacity to operate by then. in this context, it is very disturbing that the chairman of the african union commission, mr konaré, has been insisting on an all-african force, even rejecting the integration of units offered by uruguay, thailand and norway into unamid, in contradiction with the un security council decision and, in this way, echoing the manoeuvres of the clique in khartoum. it is also disturbing that the european union, the us and other rich countries have been failing to provide the speedy and full support that they should give to the deployment of that mission, namely by not providing it with a financial airlift and other logistical and military capacities that it needs to operate. even the chad mission is very much delayed, and that was supposed to be ‘urgent’. finally, mr bashir is going to be given a red carpet welcome in lisbon: it is not only mr mugabe. i hope that the european union authorities, the commission and the presidency and the member states will not fail to take that opportunity to actually confront him with this tremendous responsibility that, one day, will bring him to the hague.
i would like to use the opening of the european parliament's plenary session to express our solidarity with the workers of gestnave and erecta who are persistently, selflessly and courageously fighting for their integration into lisnave. the implementation of this integration is nothing more than the fulfilment of the provisions of the memorandum of understanding signed ten years ago between the portuguese state and the mello group in connection with the restructuring of the shipbuilding industry on the setúbal peninsula, and also of the provisions of the portuguese labour code. i would like to conclude by reaffirming our full support for the many initiatives which the workers of gestnave, erecta and lisnave have taken over the years to ensure that the law is respected and justice is done for the sake of workers' rights and the future of the shipbuilding and ship repair industry in portugal.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member elected by one of the seven outermost regions, i have to tell this house of the immense concern that the application of the directive we are now considering is causing in these regions. for one simple reason, the outermost regions are almost exclusively dependent on air transport and any increase in the cost of this service, the inevitable consequence of the application of the directive, will make it more difficult to reach these regions, aggravating their isolation, a decisive factor in the finding at european level of a specific status for the outermost regions, as enshrined in article 299 (2) of the treaties. on the other hand, the increase in the cost of air transport will accentuate the competitive disadvantage of these regions by hampering tourism, the main economic activity for most of these regions. a reduction in tourist flows and/or a decrease in spending per tourist is foreseeable, which could lead to a decrease of at least 2% in the gdp of the outermost regions, according to studies carried out by the government of the canary islands. the commission's communication on the outermost regions, entitled 'a stronger partnership for the outermost regions', which the european parliament fully supported, sets out two of the three main priorities of the european policy for the outermost regions: to make them more accessible by reducing their isolation and to promote their competitiveness. the contradiction and inconsistency with these priorities which will result from the application of this directive cannot be overlooked. i believe that for the first time we are faced with a legislative act of the european union which will have the consequence of increasing the isolation of these regions. the amendments nos 5 and 6 from the european people's party, tabled following a compromise between the rapporteur, mr peter liese, whom i congratulate on his excellent work, and mr jarzembowski and mrs christine de veyrac, are certainly moving in the right direction in terms of mitigating the impact of this directive, but they are not sufficient. i therefore call on the three institutions to find better solutions in the next stages of the legislative process to mitigate the impact of this directive on the outermost regions.
mr president, while i agree with the commission's proposal and the rapporteur's, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that it does not meet the objectives of parliament as described in the report on reducing the impact of aviation on climate change, and i would like to ask you to pay particular attention to the situation of the most isolated territories, which are particularly dependent on air transport, and in particular the outermost regions. nor to the question posed by the commission itself in its communication on the 'strategy for the outermost regions' last october, which asked, and i quote: 'what measures would be necessary to ensure that the objective of reducing emissions does not have a negative impact on accessibility, the economy and the citizens of the ors?' the european parliament, by voting in favour of amendments nos 99 and 100, which are supported by the pse, will respond to the above issues by establishing an impact assessment and appropriate mediation measures, ensuring the necessary and appropriate future inclusion of the outermost regions in emissions trading, which will ensure the environmental and economic sustainability and mobility of these regions which are totally dependent on air transport due to their geographical situation.
in writing. the signing of this agreement between the european community and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas is being carried out in parallel with the signing of the readmission agreement, 'which are mutually conditional'. the report stresses that these agreements fall within the eu's 'fight against illegal immigration' and its instruments, and expressly stresses the fulfilment of the 'recommendations on the need for the ec and the european commission, in particular, to provide adequate technical and economic assistance to ukraine to achieve a high level of implementation of the readmission agreement'. what we criticize. although the agreement introduces strict procedural deadlines, establishes preferential visa fees, including a total exemption from the visa fee for certain 'categories of persons' (?) and provides for a simplified procedure for different situations, it falls short of what would be required and what thousands and thousands of ukrainian citizens need. the need, as the rapporteurs make clear, is for the effective implementation of measures to facilitate visa applications for wider groups of ukrainian society, including a visa-free regime without discrimination, as ukraine has done for citizens of the different eu countries. hence our vote.
in writing. the signing of this agreement between the european community and moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas is being carried out in parallel with the signing of the readmission agreement, which is 'mutually conditional', as is the case with the agreements with russia and ukraine. although the agreement introduces strict procedural deadlines, establishes preferential visa fees, including a full exemption from the visa fee for certain 'categories of persons' (such as members of official delegations, businessmen, journalists, participants in scientific, cultural and sporting events, students, participants in exchange programmes, close family members, representatives of civil society, persons visiting for medical reasons) and provides for a simplified procedure for different situations, it falls short of what would be required and what is needed by thousands and thousands of moldovan citizens. the need is for the effective implementation of measures to facilitate visa facilitation for wider groups of moldovan society, up to a visa-free regime without discrimination, as moldova has done for citizens of the different eu countries. in addition, such agreements fall within the community's immigration policies and the 'schengen area', which includes its biometric data retention instruments. hence our vote.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a new council regulation on the collection of data in the fisheries sector aims to develop long-term sampling programmes which are well integrated at regional level and include ecological, economic, environmental and social data. the revision of the data collection regulation is intended to respond to new demands arising from the need to move towards fisheries management (based on fleet and fishing areas as an alternative to fish stock management) and to apply an ecosystem approach to fisheries management. this is to ensure that the approach is more in line with the different realities of fisheries, which require different strategies to tackle a common problem. the aim is to make the procedures more transparent, ensuring that fisheries data are processed and used in a better and more effective way. the report of this parliament deserves my favourable opinion.
in writing. this proposal aims to replace, as from 2008, regulation (ec) no 1543/2003 on the community framework for the collection and management of data in the context of the common fisheries policy. the main differences between the present proposal and the current regulation are the inclusion of new types of data, the application of a more fleet-oriented approach and the distinction between different regions (fishing areas) and the drawing up of three-year national plans. the new text, among other things, clarifies the type of data to which the commission will have access, insists on safeguarding their confidentiality and provides for different levels of penalties depending on the failure of the member states to comply with the new regulation, including the conditionality of the community financial contribution to the national programmes to be drawn up by the member states. it also requests that the commission clearly define what should be understood as an 'official request for information' and an 'incomplete national programme'. it should be for each member state to adopt measures, based on the availability of reliable data and as complete as possible for scientific research into fisheries, for the sound management of its marine biological resources. however, it is a competence of each member state which is unacceptably called into question by the so-called 'reform' treaty.
in writing. the commission ensures the production of community statistics by coordinating the necessary harmonization of statistical data, the collection of which is carried out by the member states, addressing issues such as the definition of variables, discrimination, dates of application and frequency, etc. gender should also be broken down in order to have information on any gender differences. as regards health and safety at work, account should also be taken of studies and surveys by the european agency for safety and health at work and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. outside europe, greater cooperation should be established with the united nations, and in particular with the international labour organization and the world health organization. complementary funding for health and safety at work will be provided under the community programme for employment and social solidarity (progress). in principle, financial assistance should be provided to help member states to strengthen national capacities to improve and create new tools for statistical data collection.
in writing. as the report states, sport must be given full attention, because of its social and cultural aspects and the social and educational values it conveys, such as self-discipline, overcoming personal limitations, solidarity, healthy competition, respect for the opponent, social integration, combating all forms of discrimination and team spirit, as well as tolerance. thus, in a multicultural society, sport can and should be an integral part of formal and informal education, as studies have shown that regular physical exercise improves physical and mental health and, in parallel, contributes positively to the learning process. we therefore agree with the call to the member states and the competent authorities to give greater priority to the development of health in school and pre-school education programmes, by encouraging specific forms of physical activity at these ages, and also by providing greater awareness-raising by clubs and associations so that children can start physical activity as early as possible for the benefit of their development and health, so that physical education is given a status that is in line with the profile of the institution and the corresponding level of study.
in writing. the role of sport in education is a topic of relevance to a number of titles. for example, obesity is on the rise throughout europe, particularly among young people. this is an alarming fact, a public health concern, and the effects of which will be felt for the lifetime of these people. we must not forget that these citizens will have health problems for the rest of their lives, which will have major social and economic effects on the organization and future of our societies. another relevant fact is the evidence that throughout the eu the time allocated to physical education has been gradually decreasing. well, we can infer that the increase in physical inactivity has also contributed to the most alarming of the figures - in the eu-27, overweight affects almost one in four children. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to contribute to positive action in favour of the health of the younger generations.
in writing. soil is known to have a basic social function, being essential for the production of food and other agricultural crops and the storage and processing of energy and minerals, as well as acting as a natural filter for groundwater, the main source of drinking water, a habitat for a plurality of organisms living on or on the surface of the soil, a platform for human activity and an important element of the landscape and cultural heritage. so it's a key component of the earth's environment. there are already several community policies aimed at protecting these essential functions, although not the soil itself. as the impact assessment carried out by the commission shows that soil degradation is worsening, there is concern for soil protection, linked also to concern for climate change, the preservation of a sufficient supply of unpolluted water, the protection of biodiversity and the fight against desertification and deforestation. further community legislation specifically aimed at protecting soil itself must result from an exchange of information and coordination between member states and should not impose any unnecessary additional administrative burden or jeopardise agricultural production and the social function of land.
in writing. i consider the commission's analysis to be relevant and i agree with the proposed strategy on soil protection, a non-renewable resource which provides vital services for human activities and the survival of ecosystems. i support the prodi report, considering its proposals to better understand the relationship between soils and the issues of biodiversity, desertification and climate change to be particularly relevant.
in writing. the protection of the environment in europe is a politically relevant subject, the development of which has been intensifying in recent years and whose research remains a priority for the union. the protection of the environment in europe cannot therefore be achieved without the protection of soils. these are exposed to various degradation processes and the need for specific measures to protect them makes perfect sense in the context of a new european framework in this field. we recognize that land is mostly private property, but even more so that land is a natural resource of common interest and that, for that very reason, it must be preserved for the benefit of future generations. considering that soil protection is closely linked to the main environmental challenges of international dimension, there is a need to study community legislation specifically aimed at protecting the soil itself, which could provide for the exchange of information and the coordination of good practices between member states. the integration of soil protection into a future climate regime thus seems to imply the recognition of the need for greater awareness of the role of soil protection in mitigating and adapting to climate change.
in writing. i voted in favour of the peter liese report on a proposal to amend directive 2003/87/ec and to include aviation activities in the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme in the community, as i consider the integration of the aviation sector in the emission allowance trading scheme to be a key measure to mitigate the effects of climate change. the contribution of aviation to climate change is substantial and growing rapidly, and this proposal for a directive is therefore an important step towards meeting the ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. i believe, however, that it is essential to adopt measures to adapt this directive to the reality of the outermost regions, so as to avoid the social and economic impact of the emissions regime being particularly high in these regions. i therefore regret that amendments nos 98=100/rev and 97=99/rev were not adopted.
in writing. we have serious doubts about the overall content of the proposals adopted in this resolution of the european parliament, and we have therefore not voted in favour of it. we are against emissions trading, which always protects those with the most money to buy emission rights and does not solve the problem of excess co2 emissions. secondly, because countries and regions where air services are essential, such as the outermost regions of the azores and madeira, are not taken into account. for example, both flights between these islands and flights between the continental european area and these regions are particularly important for territorial cohesion in the european union and should therefore be given special treatment. we regret that the inclusion of the outermost regions in the eu territory and of all flights arriving/departing from european airports has not been taken into account in the assessment of the impact of this directive, which will be more severe in these regions than in the european average, both in terms of the use of aircraft by their inhabitants and the impact of tourism on regional development. it has also failed to take account of the dramatic consequences for its competitiveness of a tax burden on air links from which its neighbours are exempt.
in writing. the commission's proposal to include aviation in the emissions trading scheme is an important element in the package of measures to be taken internationally. we cannot deny the significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions in the aviation sector; the solution to the problem through emission allowance trading therefore appears to be a useful instrument, especially if it is properly designed and articulated with other measures that support market stability and do not distort competition. the measures we are taking today will set a precedent for the negotiations that follow at international level, and the union must therefore have a strong position and solutions that actually have an effect on protecting the environment, while defending our industries and our freedoms. while recognising that this is a difficult exercise, the rapporteur and all of us should be commended for our efforts to seek commitments that make a real case for mitigating the effects of climate change and balancing economic and social activities in europe.
the schengen area is one of the greatest successes in the history of european integration and the most successful expression of freedom of movement, with the abolition of internal borders and the adoption of various compensatory measures, such as the reinforcement of external border controls, police and judicial cooperation and the creation of the schengen information system. schengen, like the european union, has been growing. of the five founding member states, there are now 15, including two non-eu countries, iceland and norway, and with a partial participation of ireland and the united kingdom. we are therefore facing a historic event, the largest enlargement in the history of schengen, with the simultaneous lifting of the internal borders with the new member states, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, latvia, poland, lithuania, slovenia, slovakia and malta. this is a significant fact for europe, for free movement and for these new member states and their citizens. i start by welcoming them and congratulating them. we congratulate them on their entry into this area, but we congratulate them above all on the systematic and committed effort they have shown to meet all the requirements of the strict schengen rules. the december 2006 reports, already referred to by the secretary of state, josé magalhães, had pointed out several problems which have since been overcome in their overwhelming majority. the evaluation teams were composed of experts from all member states, travelled to borders and consulates and produced comprehensive reports containing factual descriptions, assessments and recommendations, many of which required additional measures and follow-up visits in the face of problems still encountered in the vast majority of member states. i would like to congratulate the evaluation team, chaired by dr carlos moreira, not only for the demanding work they have carried out in a short time, but also for not simply fulfilling their role as an inspector, suggesting several times measures and solutions that have allowed the problems identified to be solved. the absence of internal borders, mr president, not only requires better controls at the external borders and the smooth transmission of information and data through the sis, but is above all an exercise in mutual trust in which everyone must ensure strict compliance with the rules adopted. ensuring good control at our borders is about ensuring the safety of all european citizens. the security of the schengen area depends on the rigour and effectiveness of each member state's control of its external borders and on the quality and speed of the exchange of information through sis. the fragility or improper functioning of any of these elements endangers the security of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the european parliament, in the political resolution it is going to adopt, which is signed by five political groups, and also in the legislative resolution, asks to be informed in detail within six months of the details still outstanding. that is why we are also calling for a global assessment of the functioning of the schengen area to be carried out within two years, involving all the member states, both past and present. finally, i would like to thank the presidency for its commitment and spirit of collaboration, and i would like to thank in particular the portuguese government and in particular the secretary of state, mr josé magalhães, who is here, for the solution which has been the sisone4all, as already emphasized by vice-president frattini. this solution made it possible to connect the new member states to sis. if that had not been the case, we would not have been able to extend the schengen area this year, given the delay in the sis ii. i know, mr secretary of state, of the high level of your personal commitment and i would also like to congratulate dr eduarda peixeiro, to whom much is owed for the solution adopted. the commission's final two notes, the first for the european commission, are intended to remind parliament once again that the creation of sis ii remains a priority for the european parliament (the problem of not allowing new member states access to the system has already been solved by sisone4all), particularly because it will allow more efficient use of data within the community framework, improving security, both by introducing biometric data and by interlinking alerts. and as regards the council, i cannot but regret that at the beginning of this consultation process the council did not respect the principle of loyal cooperation with parliament by refusing to send the evaluation reports drawn up by experts on grounds of security. although a compromise was reached, which allowed the solution to be found for the time being, it is urgent to find a solution for the future. it is absurd to deny parliament the elements on which it exercises its legislative powers. mr president, we have taken another step forward in the march of european integration. it is up to all of us to ensure that this step leads to greater freedom but also to greater security.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 14 november 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the joint debate will then follow on - the commission statement on the proclamation of the european consensus on humanitarian aid, and - the report by mr thierry cornillet, on behalf of the committee on development, on the european union and humanitarian aid [2007/2139 (ini) ] (a6-0372/2007).
the debate is closed. i would like to draw the attention of the house to the fact that the vote on the commission's statement will take place in brussels on 29 november 2007 and that the vote on the report by mr thierry cornillet will take place tomorrow, wednesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, in this debate it is important to stress that the success of the european union depends on the responses it can give in terms of solidarity and economic and social cohesion. when poverty in the european union is still high, reaching 17% of the population, or about 80 million people in the eu of 27, when precarious employment is worsening and the share of the working poor is increasing, the key priority must be to break with neoliberal policies and give priority to employment with rights, decent wages, increased social protection and high-quality public services for all, to support productive investment by micro and small enterprises, to make a fairer distribution of the wealth produced, in order to promote real convergence between the member states, to promote development and social progress and also to pursue a policy of cooperation with the third world countries.
the european union faces the great challenge of succeeding in the era of globalisation: how to reconcile competitiveness with social cohesion is the question, globalisation with regulation, therefore. the lisbon strategy contains the answer, and the lisbon treaty will facilitate decision-making, but success will depend above all on how europe views globalisation: as an opportunity rather than a threat. you have to understand what's going on with china and india. china has overtaken britain, france and italy as the most industrialized nation, has overtaken the united states as the leading exporter of technological products, has accumulated enormous monetary reserves. as for india, few know the name tata. however, the automobile subsidiary of tata was worth more on the stock market in 2006 than general motors, and no one had heard of the mittal group until it launched a hostile takeover bid on arcelor, causing panic in paris, brussels and luxembourg. but we must not forget the other side of the asian miracle, a story of suffering made up of the complicity of the beijing government with western multinationals who relocated their factories to take advantage of cheap labour and the absence of the welfare state. on the other hand, it is asia that will win or lose the challenge of combating global warming. in international trade, europe must be firm, demand reciprocity, but not adopt protectionist policies as a system. it is true that chinese competition is unfair because of low wages, the absence of political and trade union rights, counterfeiting or undervalued currency. all of this is true. but it is also true that there are 800 million chinese and 700 million indians who are eager to access a minimum income worthy of their human condition and to demand more social justice. challenges for a stronger europe, for a better world.
in writing. as has been pointed out, the whole of southern europe is bounded by the boundary of two tectonic plates which cross the mediterranean and extend across the atlantic ocean through some of the islands of the azores, making earthquakes one of the most frequent natural disasters in this region. the ep's report contains a diverse set of concerns and proposals which we value, particularly when it acknowledges that the outermost regions 'are regularly victims of these phenomena' or when it points, among other things, to the need to support member states' action in the areas of prevention, response and damage repair; information to the population; scientific research; civil protection and solidarity at community level. as regards coordination, the report proposes cooperation mechanisms between member states and between member states and third countries to implement the measures set out above. however, although it supports the creation of a 'european civil protection force' as a 'centralised prevention and management tool' - a line with which we disagree - it stresses that this 'will only be useful if it is based on improved national civil protection and better instruments for coordination between member states', which in our view puts the question back where it should be.
in writing. while we support a number of aspects of humanitarian aid which are highlighted in the report, we cannot support a 'consensus' on eu principles, objectives and strategy in the field of humanitarian aid in third countries which calls for the promotion of 'the right, or even the duty, to intervene in the event of serious violations of international humanitarian law (ihl) and/or human rights', considering that 'coercive measures, including military intervention', may be used as a 'last resort'. we know the results of such a policy of "good intentions", see the aggression and military occupation of iraq by the us and its allies and their hundreds of thousands of dead. as has been pointed out, the so-called 'humanitarian intervention' is often concealed by other real objectives which use it and exploit it in the interests and unscrupulous calculations of the great powers and transnational powers, thus calling into question basic principles of international law. we believe that the solution to the serious problems affecting millions of human beings depends, among other things, on respect for the sovereignty of all peoples and countries, on the peaceful settlement of international conflicts, on meeting the urgent needs of the economically poorer countries on a friendly and supportive basis and on their effective development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the cristina gutiérrez-cortines report on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for the protection of soil and amending directive 2004/35/ec, because i believe that soils are a vital resource that must be protected to mitigate the effects of climate change and ensure that the activities of future generations can take place in a safe and healthy environment. in this sense, i consider that this proposal contributes to effective soil protection in that it sets out the objectives for which there is no community and/or national legislation. however, it should be for member states to decide, in the light of their specific situation, which measures should be given priority, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. we know the importance of soil protection, right from the start, for agriculture, which will have to produce more food and require more water, so soil protection is essential to safeguard food production and to ensure sufficient and clean water for future generations, and land has a social function which no private interest should call into question. soil is a platform for human activities, including cities and infrastructure, but also for nature and landscapes, so its protection is crucial to preserving our cultural heritage and natural resources. but the proposal put forward by the european commission is not the most appropriate one, because of its partial approach, the impositions it imposes and the little value it gives to agriculture. the european parliament has significantly amended it with proposals in defence of the principle of subsidiarity, recognising the importance of agriculture and the right of 'each member state, taking into account its climate, soil characteristics ... to decide its own agricultural policy in relation to soil' and recognising different approaches to soil protection. however, it does contain some aspects which merit our reservations. hence our final vote of abstention.
in writing. i consider it extremely important that there should be a framework directive on soil protection, since it is a non-renewable resource that provides vital services for human activities and the survival of ecosystems, especially as the issue of climate change is becoming increasingly worrying and there is no specific european legislation on soil protection at present. i therefore support the gutiérrez-cortines report and vote against all amendments which seek to reject the commission's proposal or to weaken the gutiérrez-cortines report significantly.
in writing. after several years of negotiations between the council, the commission and the european parliament, the decision amending the previous decision of 1999 on the rules for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission was finally adopted in 2006. the regulatory procedure with scrutiny has thus been introduced, which is to be used for the adoption of measures of general scope designed to amend (by deleting or adding) non-essential elements of a basic act adopted pursuant to article 251 of the treaty, i.e. by codecision. this is a new comitology procedure which should be applied to a list drawn up by the commission containing 25 acts already adopted and to be adapted, including this regulation on the schengen borders code. i therefore support the technical proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mr michael cashman, which seek to take account of the specific features of the schengen borders code, since it is a development of the schengen acquis.
in writing. it is true that the long-term consequences of gmo technology are not yet known. the statements of scientists are contradictory, and many people fear possible dangers and risks. the precautionary principle should therefore be respected and its use in agriculture should not be insisted upon. however, directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms covers the experimental release of gmos into the environment, i.e. the introduction of gmos into the environment for experimental purposes (such as field testing) and the placing on the market of gmos (products containing or consisting of gmos), for example for cultivation, import or industrial processing. we think it is important that there should be at least more general control of gmo technology, at least as regards the procedures, as the european parliament now wants, but we insist on the need to apply the precautionary principle, both in agriculture and in processed foodstuffs.
in writing. this directive is of the utmost importance given the growing concern about money laundering and its role in the financing of international crime and terrorism. the community approach is thus necessary, creating uniform rules, closing gaps and seeking to maintain a balance between the need for control and the requirements of the protection of the internal market and the free movement of capital. i support this initiative which aims to update directive 2005/60/ec on money laundering, in particular with regard to all the implementing measures contained in article 41 thereof. this is another case of updating the existing legislation under the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny under the comitology decision. the european parliament will have greater powers of control over the implementing powers conferred on the commission.
in writing. the proposal amends the provisions of directive 2005/60/ec on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, which provided for a temporary restriction of the implementing powers conferred on the commission in this area. in accordance with the recent decision on the exercise of the commission's powers, this restriction is abolished, but the european parliament retains the right to monitor the implementation of acts adopted under the codecision procedure. it is therefore clarified that possible amendments to this directive will be submitted, in addition to the council, to the european parliament for its consideration. however, this should not mean that national parliaments are excluded from the legislative process or merely referred to a process of transposing directives adopted in this field at community level. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, we must point out the inconsistency of the european union, which, while advocating the fight against money laundering, is promoting the total freedom of movement of capital and tax havens.
in writing. since 2005, publicly traded companies have been required, under certain conditions, to prepare their consolidated accounts in accordance with international accounting standards. these standards were developed by a private organisation (the international accounting standards committee foundation/international accounting standards board) based in london, and were subsequently transposed into community law by means of a regulation. this resolution, although with some reservations, accepts the commission's proposal to amend this regulation by adopting a standard (ifrs 8) which in turn incorporates a north american standard (sfas 131) into community legislation. this is accepted without, as mentioned in the resolution, the impact assessment carried out by the commission having sufficiently taken into account the interests of users and the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises established in different european countries and of enterprises operating only locally. that is why we do not support this resolution.
in writing. there is much to be said about this resolution on the recent eu-russia summit, so only a few examples are highlighted as to its purpose. for example, while dismissing the us administration's initiatives and deep responsibilities in promoting a new escalation in the militarization of europe - it is emphasized, with the support of nato members - it considers that the 'statements of the russian authorities' and the 'inappropriate threat ... to withdraw from the treaty on conventional forces in europe have raised serious concerns as regards the maintenance of peace and stability on the european continent'. for example, more or less directly, it puts the emphasis on the essentials, i.e. 'the acquisition by community companies of strategic stakes in certain russian companies', 'the importance of improving the investment climate in russia' for the benefit of the major financial groups in the eu or 'equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment' based on the principles of the 'energy charter treaty'. and in line with the previous examples, it maintains political pressure on the russian federation, including by seeking to promote instruments of interference, while ignoring the unacceptable situation of the most elementary rights of the russian-speaking population in latvia, an eu member state.
in writing. the eu-russia summit, which took place after the discussion of this report but before the vote, marked the 18th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall. eighteen years later, what was eastern europe is a democratic space where the market economy has been consistently established. on the contrary, russia is far from being democratized and transformed into a reliable partner. in energy, in kosovo, in the caucasus, in central asia, in ukraine, in moldova, in the iranian nuclear issue, russia has not been a sufficient part of the solution. the same week the european council on foreign relations presented a report which stated that in the relationship between the european union and russia, the russians have been setting the rules, while europe shows a lack of unity and strategy, and in some cases does not seem to be. the european union has been a major player in the development of the region for a long time. it is therefore rightly suggested that the eu strategy should be more demanding, so that that country respects the principle of legality. even if it is not a liberal democracy, it is necessary that russia is a predictable and reliable state. and europe must commit itself to that outcome.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs satu hassi, on her initial text and on her ability to generate compromise on this complex subject. the text we are voting on reflects a real effort by the various political groups to make the message to bali clear, effective and mobilizing. only then will it be possible to achieve the central objective of making the bali meeting the starting point for all world opinions to make clear and quantified political commitments to combat climate change by 2009. all parties have had to make sacrifices and adjustments. we shall have achieved our objective if this text is approved by parliament as a whole, and if it gives democratic legitimacy to the european union's pioneering role in environmental and climate matters before the whole world. this pioneering nature of the european union, however, gives it increased responsibilities, particularly with regard to the quality of the concrete proposals submitted. furthermore, these proposals must include either size/reduction or size/adaptation. in particular, it is necessary to take into account that the greatest costs of adaptation are already being borne by the poorest regions of the world, those which have contributed least to the problem and are least able to solve it. the proposals will also have to aim at equitable, proportionate and fair distribution of the different international burdens of responsibility for reduction. environmental commitments need to be reconciled with the development process to which the poorest countries and regions are entitled, including access to normal levels of well-being and comfort, both by the least developed countries and by the vast populations of emerging economies. european pioneering is a duty, but it should also be seen as an opportunity to gain comparative technological and innovation advantages associated with the environment. however, the truth is that this advantage will only materialize if environmental concerns and commitments gradually become the rule of the world economy. if this is not done, the union's good practice will become a source of distortion of competition and disillusionment on the part of its citizens. in this context, parliament is making concrete progress in suggesting that, in addition to national commitments, global sectoral commitments be exploited by creating internationally accepted references, benchmarks and good practices for all sectors of industry and services involved in international competition. this is a highly ambitious agenda, but the eu has the responsibilities to play a positive leadership role, which is very important for the survival of the planet we are assuming in this matter.
the role of the european union in the world today is absolutely indispensable if we are to achieve some of the essential balances in the pursuit of peace and justice on the planet. in this sense, the logic of associating some countries more specifically through bilateral agreements must not disrupt the multilateral deepening that a global vision requires of us. the unquestionable presence of universal human rights and the guarantee of fundamental freedoms in the european union's relations with the world must be the motive for any negotiable premise with any partner in the world. the mediterranean region is even more so. this region, because of its geographical proximity to europe, its ancestral affinity, its cultural diversity and its continuing political instability, must require the european union to take a very determined approach to these fundamental issues. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on this in his report on the european neighbourhood policy. it is worth mentioning that the proposals which president sarkozy is now putting on the table for the unification of the mediterranean are completely out of context. although it is an absolutely useful proposal for the revival of the debate on the mediterranean, it proposes on the one hand the dismantling of the current partnership and on the other hand it is dissociated from the fundamental premises of the european union as regards the primacy of universal human rights and fundamental freedoms, considering them as side issues in the face of a pragmatism on a case-by-case basis that would feed a multi-speed relationship. our role is not to fuel the retreat of our partners or to fuel divisions. we must push for change and progress, particularly in the area of rights, but always ensuring that our investments provide opportunities for growth and economic development for the whole region. so ensuring the implementation of the free trade area in 2010 in the region, among all its peers, is an objective within our reach, but without ever losing sight of our essence of humanist and democratic values and rights.
the debate is closed. i would remind you that the vote on the report by mr raimon obiols and mr charles tannock will take place tomorrow, wednesday, and that the texts tabled to conclude the debate on the council and commission statements will be voted on in brussels on 29 november 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work. the resolution we are adopting will consolidate our parliament's vision in this area of neighbourhood policy, building on the lines we defined in january 2006. that is why it is important to approve amendments nos 1 and 2, which i thank charles tannock for having tabled. they reaffirm points which we have already agreed and which could not now be forgotten, dealing with our neighbourly relations on the south atlantic frontier. it is important to recall the particular situation of the neighbouring island states of our outermost regions, the canary islands, madeira and the azores, with which we have historical ties and specific close relations. and so we must reiterate our call on the commission to propose and develop specific policies aimed at extending, as far as possible, the european neighbourhood policy to these our atlantic island neighbours, close to the european continent, insofar as they are concerned not only by geographical proximity but also by cultural and historical affinity and the common interest of mutual security. i would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the recent communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the future of relations between the european union and the republic of cape verde.
the question period is now over (b6-0382/2007). the following questions were put to the council. question no 1 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0777/2007) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: the 'revolving door' immigration policy some policy makers and experts have raised the possibility of an agreement between member states to combine the control of the union's external borders with a new 'revolving door' immigration policy, so that migrants established in the union in a legal situation can move to their countries of origin without fear that the doors will be closed to them on return. does the council consider this approach feasible? would it be possible to conduct such a policy through intergovernmental cooperation alone or would it be necessary to create new institutional mechanisms for this purpose?
the question i would ask about circular immigration is whether there should not be a special mechanism to enable this circular immigration, especially with a view to providing training in the countries to which it is destined. i'm thinking of the doctors, the nurses from malawi who are in england, for example.
question no 2 by mr claude moraes (h-0779/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: burden sharing in asylum and immigration in the context of the solidarity and management of migration flows framework programme 2007-2013, what progress has been made with regard to the concept of 'burden sharing'? what practical steps are member states taking to ensure that responsibilities for asylum and immigration are shared fairly amongst themselves?
question no 3 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0781/2007) subject: the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' subject: measures to ensure the livelihood of illegal immigrants, in particular women and children what measures does the council intend to take to ensure decent living conditions for illegal immigrants, particularly women and children, during their temporary stay, so that the member states will comply uniformly with their international commitments?
question no 4 by georgios papastamkos (h-0784/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation of refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: the european security strategy for the period after the war what are the results of the implementation of the european security strategy so far? in particular, what are the results of the extension of the safe zone to the periphery of europe? is the council satisfied with the strategy of 'peace through regional integration' and 'regional integration for peace' in the eu's geopolitical perimeter?
question no 5 by mr bernd posselt (h-0788/2007) subject: the european parliament's resolution on the situation of refugees in the former yugoslavia subject: accession negotiations with macedonia how does the council assess the current state of macedonia's eu approximation and when does it consider it possible and/or desirable to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations?
question no 6 by sarah ludford (h-0790/07) subject: conservation of tigers in the wild what steps has the eu taken, and what further steps does it intend to take, to encourage and assist india and other relevant countries to conserve their tiger populations in a way that engages local populations and makes them co-responsible for the protection of these animals?
question no 7 by gay mitchell (h-0792/2007) subject: the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east subject: non-community financial services centrescan the council make a statement on how it cooperates with non-community financial services centres in areas of mutual interest?
questions which were not answered in due time will be answered in writing at a later date (see annex). question time is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 7.45 p.m. and resumed at 9.05 p.m.)
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr braghetto, on the excellent work he is doing here and i would like to start by saying that the inability of the current common fisheries policy to ensure the sustainability of this activity is most clearly illustrated by the situation we are facing today with bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and in particular in the mediterranean. and this has recently been recognised by a very interesting study commissioned by the directorate-general for fisheries, which commissioner joe borg has taken the care to make public, and for which i would like to thank him. the fact is that the harsh measures we are now seeing in this area, with the total closure of fishing before the end of the year, the attempt to slaughter a substantial part of the fleet, the prospect of total paralysis of activity, even if it may not be able to achieve its objectives, is a direct consequence of a conception of the common fisheries policy in which decisions on management have been dissociated from its implementation and control and in which fishing communities and authorities have been discharged of responsibility by an exclusive european competence which, however, has not been exercised by those who claim it. traditional fishing techniques such as the use of the pole and the hook, which are environmentally sustainable but less economically profitable, have been forced to confront modern technologies and highly sophisticated means, which are incomparably more profitable in the short term but not environmentally sustainable, and it is only now that some discriminatory measures against the latter type of vessels have finally emerged, which i would like to support and emphasize my full support for what has been said here by my comrade rosa miguélez, namely that it is essential to give priority to artisanal fishing methods. the situation of the imminent threat of commercial extinction of the rabies fishery should serve as a basis for reflection on what needs to be done in the overall common fisheries policy.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr alexandru athanasiu, with whom i have had the opportunity to meet on several occasions in recent months and who is now presenting the result of what i would call good work. i have in fact been following the content of the report under discussion today and the negotiations with the commission and the council since june this year, and i can say with complete confidence today on behalf of the epp-ed that we have reached a compromise text of a very high quality and very solid. if parliament adopts the amendments to the commission proposal in this plenary session, as i hope, it is known that the council has already informed us that it will also adopt the same amended proposal for a regulation. i believe that this report will prove to be a useful tool in identifying sectors in the european union where there is a need for workers and, in this respect, in promoting solvency and better management in terms of training. i would also like to point out - and this seems important - that the content of this report does not represent any more bureaucratic burden or any more inconsequential legislation, since in its current version it does not incorporate any overlapping of existing initiatives or tools. the report also shows a good balance between the need to provide information for statistical purposes and the need not to burden businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, with unnecessary bureaucratic procedures. i therefore believe that all the conditions are met for its adoption at first reading and i recommend that this decision be adopted by this house.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. there is no doubt that more and better cooperation for development is urgently needed in a world faced with a new arms race and the increasing militarization of international relations, led by the united states and its allies. we are therefore very concerned about attempts to subordinate development aid to security strategies, and to promote its use for the more or less disguised purposes of interference, plundering of resources and neo-colonialism. in analysing the international situation, external causes should not be omitted or devalued, by fomenting and aggravating contradictions which are often at the root of the problems. the list of so-called fragile states drawn up by the world bank, which is more than subjective, is sufficient to prove this. how many situations of external interference and aggression does this not reflect? yes, there is an urgent need for an agenda for cooperation and development that responds to the most basic needs of millions of human beings, based on respect for national sovereignty and independence and the peaceful settlement of international conflicts; an agenda that promotes the demilitarisation of international relations, that promotes equitable and fair economic relations and the cancellation of the external debt that is already more than paid; an agenda that combats the policies that are the cause of deep injustices and inequalities and that builds a more just, more peaceful, more supportive and more humane world.
on behalf of the pse group. in fragile states, the interlinkage between governance, development and security is most prominent. it is essential that the eu sets strategic priorities in its relations with these states, guided by the overarching concept of human security. it is not enough to support government institutions, it is essential to invest in strengthening parliamentary scrutiny, in strengthening free and plural media, in the independence of judicial systems and in the empowerment of civil society as a priority for the empowerment of women, vulnerable groups and minorities. this requires a consistent commitment from the eu. today's somalia is a tragic example of european alienation. this also requires that causes of fragility that instigate violent conflict, further aggravating state incapacity, poor governance, extreme poverty, or human rights violations, for example, are addressed in bilateral dialogue and often the council, commission and member states fail to do so. the causes of fragility must be taken into account in the definition of strategies and in the globalisation of eu financial instruments. development aid should be people-centred and should only provide direct financial support to governments when there is evidence of commitment to conflict resolution, the building of the democratic rule of law and the improvement of governance and human security for the people. finally, and this is unfortunately the aspect omitted in the commission communication and the resolution we are about to vote on, it is essential that the eu invests more, alongside ddr and ssr programmes, in the overall control of transfers of small arms, as these fuel armed conflicts which perpetuate the fragility of many states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. other the committee on women's rights and gender equality stresses in this opinion that poverty and social exclusion are multidimensional in nature, but emphasis is placed on the economic situation of families, housing conditions, access to education, health and continuing care. it stressed that women and children were the main victims of poverty and social exclusion and that this risk was aggravated when it came to immigrants, the elderly, the disabled and members of single-parent families. it also notes that on average 15% of pupils leave the education system prematurely, but in some countries such as portugal this rate is close to 40%, which is a cause for concern for girls' education and training. stresses the importance of maintaining quality public services, a strong public and universal social security system and high levels of social protection and quality and entitled employment, and therefore the need to give priority to policies that focus on women's rights rather than policies that subordinate everything to competition, ensuring that a clear gender perspective is integrated into the formulation and implementation of these public policies; calls on the commission and the member states to give top priority to social inclusion and women's rights, and to amend their policies accordingly, including income-sharing policy.
in writing. as we have long argued, we consider that the areas of justice and home affairs are central competences of the states, particularly the portuguese state. we therefore reject its gradual transfer to the supranational institutions of the eu, in a process which justifies each new 'breakthrough' on the basis of the previous 'breakthrough'. this is the case with the creation of the so-called 'schengen area' and its acquis, which serves as a catalyst for the communityisation of policies or measures relating to border control - visa, asylum or immigration - or mechanisms at police and judicial level. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined by the fact that the european parliament is not a political body. as we have said, the necessary and indispensable international and european cooperation between sovereign and equal states on this whole range of issues is one thing, but the unacceptable handing over of essential components for safeguarding national sovereignty and democracy to supranational institutions dominated by the great powers of the eu for the creation of a 'fortress europe' is another. hence our vote.
in writing. the establishment of a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna at eu level is the practical implementation of one of the measures adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. the plan provides, inter alia, for the progressive reduction of the catch quota, periods of immobilization of the fleet, the increase of minimum sizes and a programme of observation on board vessels and at aquaculture stations. the adopted recommendation also provides for financial compensation to be granted to fishermen during periods of temporary technical immobilisation of the fleet. such compensation should be aimed at ensuring the safeguarding of the fleet and employment in the sector. we also consider it important to improve controls by regularly updating the quantity caught by the various vessels, in order to avoid that the allocated quotas are exceeded by some countries to the detriment of others, as is currently the case. it should be remembered that the bluefin tuna fishery was closed from september to december because it was suspected that quotas had already been exceeded by some countries, as it turned out. finally, we regret that our proposal, which emphasized that small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing, in addition to employing thousands of people, allows for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, was rejected.
in writing. we voted against this resolution, which takes up the essential aspects of neoliberal policies at community level and seeks to encourage their application at world level. it is a resolution which accepts flexicurity as a concept to be developed and integrated into the national reform plans of each member state, which attempts to clarify the real implications and objectives of the lisbon strategy and its guidelines for economic and employment policies, in particular the liberalisations and privatisations associated with it. we cannot accept a resolution which welcomes the intention to develop an external dimension to the lisbon strategy, namely the promotion of the liberalization of markets on a world scale, emphasizing its neoliberal character and interference with the economic orientations of third countries. the european commission's communication on its contribution to the october meeting of heads of state and government states that the relaunch of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs has been successful, but it should be added 'for the large national and international economic and financial groups' who have seen their profits grow exponentially, unlike workers facing reductions in their rights.
in writing. our vote against this resolution is based on our position in principle on the community of justice and home affairs, an area which is at the heart of the sovereignty of the states. the community approach to justice and home affairs is to be transformed into a common policy by the so-called 'reform' treaty. the community's role in the world economy is not limited to the economic and social spheres, but also to the political sphere. the restrictive asylum policy and the increasing difficulties faced by asylum seekers in securing their rights and guarantees are to be seen. the immigration policy is seen in its security aspect, its criminalization of irregular immigrants, its inhuman 'detention centres' and repatriation measures, its discriminatory, exploitative and predatory nature of human resources from third countries. the increasing creation of the ever-larger information and data storage tool - including biometric data - to which a wider set of entities, including third countries, have access, as exemplified by the access to air passenger data by us entities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on limiting global climate change to 2 degrees celsius - trajectory to 2020 and beyond (cop 13 and cop/mop3). given that climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing societies today, i believe it is essential that the european union reiterates its leadership role at the bali conference and that a future global climate agreement after 2012 is reached.
in writing. amendment no 7 breaks the spirit of compromise which presided over the negotiation of the final text. the fact that it has been adopted introduces a fundamental change in a text that should preserve a broad parliamentary consensus on the challenges of bali. in the spirit of this overall objective, and although i had indicated my support for the socialist party as a shadow rapporteur, i was forced to abstain in the final vote as an individual, in protest against two aspects: the introduction into the text of amendment no 7, which supports nuclear energy; and the rejection of the method used by the epp in the face of the spirit of compromise which presided over the negotiation of the text.
in writing. it is a fact that we are witnessing unnatural climate change, resulting from many factors, but particularly from the predatory nature of the very marked and accelerated neoliberal policies, which require effective measures to adapt human societies to new living conditions. climate change predicted in a number of credible and scientifically substantiated scenarios may not be slow and progressive, depending on the measures taken in the meantime. it is therefore urgent to take further action at global level and across the board to avoid more serious problems in the future and even the multiplication of human and environmental tragedies. but we also insist that a break with neoliberal policies is necessary at european and world level, otherwise the great powers and multinationals will continue to impose their profitable interests, both in the exploitation of natural resources and in international trade, including greenhouse gas emissions, which will have very negative effects on balanced human development.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the middle east calls for the eu to take action to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social development. if there are any doubts about the eu's real aims and ambitions for the enp, they will be easily clarified by reading this report. it is a genuine programme of interference and domination throughout the mediterranean area, the middle east, central asia and eastern europe. the programme sets out the following objectives: 'to encourage the governments of the enp partner countries to engage in political and economic reforms'; their assimilation of the eu's 'common policies'; their 'alignment with the eu's external policy'; and the 'establishment of a free trade area'. the report also calls for 'more joint action between the eu and the us' to 'promote democracy, improve energy security and strengthen regional security in the eu's neighbourhood', a point so elucidating that it was watered down in the plenary vote. but you'd better read it...
in writing. the eu's relations with ukraine fall within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, which, as the report underlines, aims to support the development of market economies in the eu's neighbouring countries, i.e. capitalism. the report states that the aim is to sign a free trade agreement (fta), i.e. to integrate ukraine into the 'single eu market' by its 'gradual adoption... of the acquis communautaire'. so the report: - i know . 'requests ukraine to pay greater attention to the liberalisation of markets, ensuring the effective completion of the privatisation process, the dismantling of monopolies (public enterprises) and the independence of its central bank; it encourages 'the convergence of standards in the agricultural, industrial and service sectors' by 'compliance with community standards'; - and, in view of ukraine's conditional accession to the 'single economic area' with russia and other republics of the former soviet union, 'reminds that some provisions included in the agreement, if fully implemented, may conflict with the conclusion of an operational lca with the eu'. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not blocked. more words for what...
in writing. we consider very worrying and deeply negative some of the developments which 'will in some way shape the eu's humanitarian doctrine in the future', embodied in initiatives such as the so-called 'eu response to situations of fragility in developing countries' or the 'european consensus for development', which are mainly aimed at african countries, but also those in the caribbean and the pacific. the analysis of these initiatives raises the central question of integrating 'development' as one of the external dimensions for the achievement of the strategic objectives of the major powers of the eu (cfsp/esdp), which is to say, the assumption of 'development' as an instrument of interference and domination in a strategy which, significantly, does not exclude 'coercive military intervention'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no doubt that solidarity with many countries which have inherited disastrous colonial conditions and are victims of decades of interference is urgently needed, but such solidarity must - if it is to be effective - be based on respect for the principles of national sovereignty and independence and on an effective and genuine policy of cooperation and development aid.
in writing. we voted in favour of this report because it contains important data on the social situation: 78 million european citizens continue to live in poverty, 8% of the eu population are working poor and the gap between rich and poor is widening in many eu member states. it also includes some positive recommendations, such as the need to set a decent minimum wage, the defence of unemployment benefits and support for the disabled, although it does not go to the heart of the causes of the social situation and does not advocate a break with neoliberal policies, as we propose. it is therefore very conservative in its demands for the political changes that are required. unfortunately, it only partially incorporated the proposals in my opinion adopted in the committee on women's rights and gender equality, in which i stress the call for the community institutions and the member states to give top priority to social inclusion and women's rights and to change their policies accordingly, including income-sharing policy.
in writing. social policy is largely a member state competence and i am therefore in favour of promoting the open method of coordination and sharing best practice in the fight against social exclusion. social security systems should be based on principles which motivate their beneficiaries to seek employment opportunities and which do not favour a perverse incentive to any form of inactivity. the low level of education of the population and the high rates of early school leaving deserve careful consideration, since it is the least qualified individuals who are most vulnerable to processes of social exclusion. this situation is particularly worrying in my country, portugal, where in 2005 more than 39% of the young population (aged 18-24) had completed only lower secondary education. this trend must be reversed and citizens must be equipped with the skills needed to successfully enter the labour market. because this proposal goes against this set of ideas i voted for it.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to congratulate the authors of this joint motion. i would like to say that it is fair to remember that before the persecution of christians, we had the persecution, for example, of jews, that we had and continue to have the persecution of yazidis, the mandians, the muslims themselves, or shiites or sunnis, in iraq. it is in no way fair or proportionate to compare what is happening in iraq with what is happening in europe. it is necessary to remember that those who are persecuted in iraq are unfortunately not getting the protection they are entitled to in europe, whether they are christians or not. there are absolutely unbelievable cases of the european union's lack of any sensitivity towards the persecuted iraqis. let me just end by reminding, without prejudice to everyone else, father ragheed ganni and the entire congregation of the church of the holy divine spirit of mosul, that this was perhaps the most monstrous crime that took place during this year.
the persecution of religious minorities in many countries calls to mind the fragility of the achievements of civilisation that we tend to take for granted. religious freedom is an essential and indivisible pillar of universal human rights. despite the laudable intention this resolution is incomplete. the ep must take a stand not against persecution of christian minorities in particular, but against all forms of intolerance and discrimination on grounds of faith or religion which in fact affect all religious communities. the islamophobia and anti-semitism that are rampant in europe and elsewhere also warrant our alarm. if we focus almost exclusively on discrimination against christians, we can give rise to misinterpretations. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat racism and xenophobia, and calls for the eu to take action to combat racism and xenophobia.
madam president, i do apologize if my words were not clear enough. my solidarity with the persecuted christian communities throughout the middle east, especially in iraq, is total and without any restrictions. i merely reminded him, and i will make sure to provide the honourable member with all that he considers necessary, that this persecution is unfortunately not confined to the christian community, that the yazidi community, the mandan community, the shiites or sunnis themselves, outside their majority communities, have been the targets of terrible persecution in this country, and this is a fact that no one can ignore. that is all i wanted to stress and i am prepared to give all the documentation that the honourable member will understand.
author. yesterday in mogadishu there were calls for an attack on african union forces, such is the scale of the tragedy and the lack of control that is sinking somalia and setting the entire horn of africa on fire. the eu must urgently press all parties to the conflict to commit themselves to an inclusive process of national reconciliation capable of addressing the political issues at the root of the crisis. the so-called transitional government is nothing but a fiction if it continues to do nothing to protect the civilian population and facilitate humanitarian assistance. somalia is awash in weapons more than ever, according to a recent un report. it is essential to stop and hold accountable countries and actors who violate the arms embargo imposed in 1992. finally, it is urgent to strengthen the african union peacekeeping force and to withdraw the occupying ethiopian troops. it must be acknowledged that the ethiopian intervention, instigated by the bush administration with the passive complicity of the european union, has not brought peace or government, or even helped to combat terrorism in somalia. it has brought only more misery, misery and death to the people of the entire region.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, i note the spirit of commitment of the socialist group and on behalf of the european people's party i would like to say that we are also open to this spirit of commitment and therefore we are not opposed to it. but we also think that our own wish, which is to have a resolution on the situation in venezuela after the elections, should also be put to the december plenary. in this spirit of joint commitment and christmas spirit, i think we can accommodate those proportions.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. madam president, you probably did not hear what i said. i began by saying, in a spirit of openness, that we too would be willing to consider this possibility - and in this spirit of christmas openness we would like our socialist friends to accept that, after the elections in venezuela, we should have a resolution on this subject.
i am grateful for the opportunity. we are going to have a new situation with the referendum that is going to take place in venezuela. it is a very important referendum, and i think it was also important that we in this house could have a rational debate now, take account of the results of the referendum and try to find a resolution for december. i think it is possible, we are trying, and it is in that spirit of christmas, of togetherness, that i make this suggestion.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the reforms which the european union must implement in order to achieve a competitive position in the world economy cannot be seen merely as limited initiatives by the public sector, but also require changes in behaviour and attitudes, either on the part of workers or of companies. these changes can only be successfully implemented if there is a climate of trust between the social partners, which can only be developed on the basis of the promotion of social dialogue. as regards the management of the labour market, we must be able to move from a phase in which the culture of conflict has dominated to another paradigm based on the culture of cooperation. personally, i don't like the term "flexicurity". i prefer to speak of 'change with safety' because any change involves risks. the important thing is to minimise those risks. you can't ask someone to be flexible when that person has no confidence in themselves or the world around them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the ppe-de tabled 120 amendments to the initial report and, after a process of negotiation, we have arrived at a final version, which i believe is balanced and complete. this is the case with the good balance achieved between the concepts of flexibility and security, as well as the interests of all parties involved in the process, in particular the social partners and public authorities. the report clearly states the need to apply the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the implementation and management of flexicurity. i therefore recommend that this report be adopted by this house.
in writing. we regret that the report does not express clearly enough an opposition to the flexicurity strategy advocated by the european commission. it merely proposes some palliative care to the principles set out in the european commission's communication. that is why we not only voted against the report in the committee on employment and social affairs, but also insisted on putting forward proposals rejecting the approach to flexicurity adopted in the communication, because it aims at deregulating labour markets and labour legislation, in practice focusing on the destruction of existing contractual ties, the liberalization of unjustified dismissals, and the increase in the insecurity of the majority of workers. there is no palliative care that can withstand the constant weakening of collective bargaining, the devaluation of trade union organizations, the transformation of the permanent bond into a precarious one, under the pretext of capitalist globalization. at the great demonstration in lisbon on 18 october, organized by the cgtp, portuguese workers said no to such proposals. what they want is more employment with rights, which presupposes a focus on production, more investment in quality public services and respect for the dignity of those who work. that is why we are sticking to the proposals we have put forward. if you continue to reject them, we will vote against this report, because we reject flexibility.
the report under discussion, whose rapporteur i welcome, rightly points out that the tourism sector is at the crossroads of many european union policies, which has a considerable impact on growth and employment, as well as on territorial and social cohesion. it is therefore essential to put into practice some of the aspects of its policy, in line with the definition of the guiding principles set out in parliament's resolution of 8 september 2005, for which i was the rapporteur. the first aspect concerns the simplification and harmonisation of the procedures for applying for tourist visas for entry into the member states, with a view to reducing their costs and facilitating access to the european union for tourists from third countries. we think this is a positive step, but it is necessary to safeguard the security rules required to combat terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration. we also note the need to improve the system for collecting statistical information, including the satellite accounts, since only with up-to-date and reliable data is it possible for public authorities and industry to take the most strategically appropriate decisions that will enable europe to maintain its current leading position. a further word on the more controversial question of possible harmonization of quality standards for tourist accommodation in europe. the multiplicity of hotel rating schemes intersects with the question of protecting the rights and expectations of tourists at the time of their choices. is it possible to establish minimum safety and quality standards in the european union to ensure the reliability and transparency of the information provided to these consumers? it is certainly desirable, but we think it will only be possible on a voluntary basis and by calling on all those concerned to take part in this task. the commission could play a key role in this, if it so wished. we do not have time to mention other equally important aspects of this report, such as tourism accessible to tourists with reduced mobility, passenger rights, or the external promotion of european destinations and the development of sustainable policies. it is nevertheless sufficiently demonstrated, and i conclude with this, that the european parliament has done its job and we hope that the other public authorities, in partnership with the private sector, will strengthen their spirit of cooperation and respond effectively to the challenges of developing a renewed and sustainable european tourism policy.
on behalf of the pse group. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new european tourism policy proposed by the european commission and discussed with the costa report deserves my full support because of the main objectives pursued following the relaunch of the lisbon strategy - improving competitiveness, creating more and better jobs, sustainable development - and because of the instruments proposed by the commission to achieve them: coordination at the level of the commission and the national authorities, cooperation between the different stakeholders and the creation of specific support actions. the rapporteur, paolo costa, whom i congratulate on the quality of his report, but also on his willingness to accept the proposed amendments, drew attention to aspects and concerns omitted in the communication, and suggested possible opportunities and solutions for a future new european tourism policy, in particular as regards visa policy, harmonisation of quality standards, improved visibility and comprehensibility of labels for tourists, consumer protection, accessibility of tourism for tourists with reduced mobility, safeguarding passengers' rights, promotion of destinations within the european union. we believe that these aspects and the proposed solutions are very relevant. the draft report by paolo costa, in turn, has been enriched and improved by a number of amendments, many of them from members of my group. i myself, in order to strengthen the terms of the commission's proposals and to take account of the rapporteur's proposals, tabled several amendments following up on the positions i took in the queiro report, namely the need to take due account of the lack of accessibility of regions with specific natural or geographical characteristics such as, among others, the outermost regions, the need for the renewed european tourism policy to ensure the economic, social, territorial, environmental and cultural sustainability of european tourism, the promotion of europe as a tourist destination or a group of attractive tourist destinations, the need for coordination of policies with a direct or indirect impact on tourism, cooperation between the major stakeholders in the sector - the european commission and the member states, regions, local authorities and tourism services - and the better use of existing european financial instruments. i therefore call on my group in particular to support this report and i urge the commission and the council to take due account of the suggestions and recommendations of the european parliament.
we are very much in agreement with the points made in the report, which we value, and we would like to take part in this debate to stress, firstly, that quality tourism and tourism activities require that the professions in this sector be covered by legal systems which safeguard labour rights and promote quality jobs and the qualification of workers, which in our view implies, among other things, adequate vocational training, improved working conditions, the promotion of stable contractual links and a level of fair and dignified wages. secondly, we stress that tourism can contribute to territorial cohesion, economic development and employment at regional level, and that a cross-cutting approach to tourism policy and funding should be promoted, in particular by creating a specific community programme to complement the action of the member states. these are the contents of some of the proposals we have put forward and which we hope will receive the support of this parliament.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the detailed work he has produced on a subject which is complex, that of the relationship between trade and climate change. europe has been an international leader in the fight against the worsening of climate change. but to be credible and to achieve the objectives it sets itself, it must strengthen the coherence of its various policies around this objective. in particular, the european trade policy, one of the oldest common policies of the union, must not and cannot be forgotten. this relationship between the environment and trade is not simple, it is not sufficiently achieved, particularly in the world trade organization. in the european union, meeting climate objectives requires an effective effort to reduce carbon emissions, which is reflected in the production conditions and costs of a growing number of productive sectors. it is time to ask: in a world of global competition and faced with a problem of planetary survival, does it make sense that this effort to combat climate change should be reduced above all to a european effort? is it acceptable that emissions from so many sectors are leaving european soil and coming from the most environmentally unprotected parts of the world? can environmental violation be a legitimate source of competitiveness? is it acceptable that for the main tradable goods worldwide there are different environmental rules depending on the part of the world where they are produced? i think not, in all these matters. we must find a balance between the environment, including here the climate, and trade, which ensures a collective, proportionate, equitable effort, but one which does not exempt anyone, much less the world's major trading partners. a new balance between the development of the immense impoverished areas of the globe and the survival of the planet must be quickly found through dialogue, mutual respect and determination towards convergent objectives. but the effort is global, just hoping that in december in bali this process will start in a serious and committed way.
mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in 1848 karl marx proclaimed the socialism of the 19th century and it was a disaster. in 1917, lenin with the russian revolution, proclaimed the socialism of the 20th century and it was a disaster. several colleagues in this house have come out of that disaster to join us in freedom. and the problem with the socialism of the 21st century, which president chávez is announcing in venezuela, is that the century is just beginning, we don't know what it's going to be like. but we can think that, like the 19th and 20th centuries, it will also be a disaster. we see it, in fact, in violence. it is not the elections that are troubling us, but the brutal violence of the authorities against students protesting in venezuela because they are not recognized as having the right to demonstrate, and that some have been killed in recent days in the streets of caracas and other cities. it is the threats to freedom of expression that concern independent and free journalists throughout latin america and, in particular, venezuelans, and that have been materialized in the closure of radiocaracas televisión. that's the path we're worried about. and there is reason to be concerned, because in the constitutional revision proposed by president chávez words like decentralization, as private initiative, as freedom of competition, as social justice disappear and, on the contrary, words like socialism, socialist, imposition of the socialist state, removal of the independence of the central bank, popular power appear. and we know, all over the world, that when you use the expression "people power", you take power away from the people, you destroy democracy. this is the case wherever the expression 'people's power' has been used. the 'bolivarian armed forces', the 'communes' are the lines that should concern us, the lines that have been sowing instability and violence for months, for years, in the streets of caracas and which are already a threat to regional stability itself, if we follow what has recently happened in relations between venezuela and colombia. and so it is essential that we follow events in venezuela closely, in solidarity with the democratic parties and civil society, fighting for regional stability, certainly defending democracy, but with great cohesion in the european union's diplomacy.
in writing. this is unbelievable! the european parliament is scheduled to hear a statement from the european commission on the constitutional reform to be carried out on 2 december in the bolivarian republic of venezuela, when what should have been scheduled was a debate on the attempt under way to deny the various peoples of the eu member countries the right to be consulted by referendum on the so-called 'constitutional', 'mini', 'simplified', 'reform' or now 'lisbon' treaty. the agenda for this debate is basically intended to respond to those who are fuelling and promoting an unacceptable and very serious process of interference and attempts to destabilise a sovereign state, particularly in relation to a process which only the venezuelan people can decide by voting in a referendum on the amendment of their country's constitution. the venezuelan people and government are undoubtedly an example that is troubling to the major financial and economic interests in the european union. an example of the assertion of national sovereignty and independence. an example of the realization of a project of patriotic emancipation and development. an example of internationalist and anti-imperialist solidarity. an example that it's worth fighting for and that a more just, more democratic and peaceful country and world is possible.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the court of auditors and, in particular, its president, mr hubert weber, whose term of office is now coming to an end, and on whose term of office we socialists have had the best of cooperation in the committee on budgetary control. i would like to thank you very much for your work and would particularly like to highlight the work that the court has done on many specific matters, such as export refunds, where it has helped greatly to improve policy-making in the european union. i would like to say that i have the greatest concerns about the budget for external aid of the european union. of the more than 5 billion euros we spent in 2006, a large part, about 1 billion, will have been used in multinational funds. in addition to the multinational funds, there are many other funds that have been spent by international organisations, some international organisations founded by the european commission. i would like to know with what status, with what right, with what legitimacy and with what transparency. despite our requests for detailed accounts and clarifications last year, the commission continues to grossly violate the financial regulation and we still do not even have a description of what is being done with european money in many countries in the wider middle east. at the same time, the european commission refuses to listen to what we are saying, that the european agency for reconstruction has been a fundamental mechanism to ensure the visibility of the european presence in the western balkans, to ensure european political leadership and also to ensure sound and effective financial management, and wants to dissolve this, which is the only way it has, so far, to do a job that we consider effective for the benefit of situations that are anything but transparent. this is unacceptable and i would like to say, in particular, to vice-president kallas that he cannot remain indifferent to this situation and that we will, in the discharge exercise, scrutinize thoroughly everything that is happening with this budget and all the organisations that are not transparent in using it.
in writing. in this european space, it is necessary to ensure that justice does not remain confined to borders that have already disappeared physically between the member states. it is essential to ensure the same treatment for all eu citizens, regardless of the member state of which they are a national or where they reside: a suspect who does not reside in the state where the trial is to be held may not be treated differently from a suspect who resides there. at present, alternative control measures to preventive detention cannot be transposed or transferred to another member state, as there is no mutual recognition of these measures, thus undermining the judicial protection of individual rights itself. i therefore support this proposal for a framework decision on the european judicial review decision in the context of interim proceedings, which should allow for the mutual recognition of pre-trial review measures, allowing the suspect, during the investigation phase, to return to the member state where he is resident. this reduces the scope of detention (especially for minor offences) while encouraging more efficient judicial cooperation.
in writing. as in previous cases, this council framework decision on judicial review in the context of interim proceedings between member states, which the european parliament's report has just approved, is part of the attempt to deepen and complete the 'common european area of justice', following the framework set out in the tampere and hague programmes and the continuation of the 'europe without frontiers' (inward...). the proposal for a framework decision and the report, among other things, advocate the need to extend the application of the european arrest warrant to cover all offences (without setting a threshold). these and other measures are intended to extend the scope of criminal law harmonisation to the different eu member states, taking steps which, by deepening the federalist character of this european union, anticipate and find stronger support in the so-called 'reform' treaty, which withdraws new powers from the states in the area of justice and home affairs.
in writing. the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition have serious consequences for the security of all eu citizens. the location of firearms is also of the utmost importance in the fight against organised crime. it is essential to put in place the necessary measures to prevent, combat and eradicate this type of crime. according to who data, interpersonal violence and suicide are the third and fourth leading causes of accidents and premature death among 15- to 44-year-olds, with the highest proportion resulting from the use of firearms. the aim of this initiative is to adapt the directive on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons by establishing common rules allowing controls to be carried out in the member states on the acquisition and possession of firearms and their transfer to another member state. the commission proposal is generally positive but it merely incorporates aspects related to the 2001 un protocol. it is also important to take account of the amendments which appear necessary on the basis of the 2000 commission report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the karin scheele report on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed because i believe that the amendments in the report, which aim to extend the areas in which the regulatory procedure with scrutiny should be applied, strengthen the role of the european parliament in the extension of the directive, thus promoting better regulation.
in writing. the european parliament today adopted the scheele report on genetically modified food and feed. as you know, genetically modified food still presents many uncertainties, especially in terms of its impact on human and animal health. so where there is no scientific certainty, the precautionary principle should be upheld. on the other hand, feeding animals genetically modified food means that these products also enter our food chain, which is not scientifically assured as being safe for health. in this report, the european parliament takes up the commission's position on the implementing powers conferred on the commission and introduces a number of conditions to existing legislation, without addressing the issues considered in the main. we cannot therefore vote in favour, even though the conditionalities may be positive. but they don't solve the underlying issue.
in writing. in addition to attempting to impose the essential content of a proposed treaty which has already been rejected, whether it is called 'constitutional', 'mini', 'simplified' or 'reformist', the supranational eu institutions continue to promote the artificial creation of a so-called 'european public opinion'. it should be remembered that this concern has been intensified by the rejection of the so-called 'european constitution' by the french and dutch peoples, who have used all the instruments at their disposal - including the so-called 'european political parties' and now their political foundations - to promote the so-called 'formation of a european conscience'. as the portuguese presidency says, the involvement of 'all our citizens in this fascinating process of european construction' is the 'real substance', the 'real cause', the 'real theme'. the question must therefore be asked why, despite all the enthusiasm, efforts are being made to prevent referenda on the european treaty. but that is not what the dominant forces in this eu want. what they are now seeking, among other things, is that appropriations from the community budget can be used to finance the campaigns of the so-called european political parties in the context of the elections to the european parliament, which could constitute a clear interference in the internal political life and democratic functioning of each country.
in writing. as we have already stressed, we cannot support a 'consensus' on eu principles, objectives and strategy in the field of humanitarian aid in third countries which calls for the promotion of the 'right' or even the 'duty' to so-called 'humanitarian' intervention, including the possibility of using 'coercive measures, including military intervention' as a 'last resort', thereby calling into question basic principles of international law. unfortunately, the consequences of such a policy, which, under the guise of 'good intentions', conceals unacceptable aims and interests, are clearly visible (although they are so hidden and overlooked). the continuing denunciation of the aggression and military occupation of iraq by the united states and its allies, with its hundreds of thousands of dead and the plundering of the country's enormous natural resources, is not too much to ask. the 'humanitarian intervention' is an instrument which the great powers want to use as a way of justifying their intervention in situations which have often been fuelled and aggravated by years of intervention and by their strategic interests and the unscrupulous calculations of the transnational corporations. the solution to the serious problems affecting millions of human beings requires respect for national sovereignty, the peaceful settlement of international conflicts and the suppression of the urgent needs of the economically poorer countries.
in writing. just a few comments on this european parliament resolution on the situation in georgia: the first is that, despite the fact that the political situation and the repression in the country have deteriorated, this is part of a whole dynamic of eu intervention, euphemistically called support for the 'necessary political and economic reforms' and 'euro-atlantic values'... the second, and consequent on the first, is a recognition of the 'political, democratic and economic progress achieved by the present president and government of georgia', whereas the content of the resolution expresses exactly the opposite and whereas it omits any reference to the wave of repression long exercised against the progressive forces in that country. the third is the fact of the rogue resolution, which is the deterioration of the socioeconomic situation of the country and the living conditions of the majority of the population - with the collapse of income and unemployment - which is at the root of the current social dissatisfaction and the sharpening of internal contradictions, which the established interests seek to exploit and manipulate, as they have done in the recent past. the last is that, in the face of such significant events, the ep 'exhorts' and 'exhorts' president saakashvili and the georgian authorities, when for much less it 'condemned' others...
in writing. the charter of fundamental rights adopted in nice in 2000 is a synthesis of common european values with which all citizens can identify. these values are the result of the rich cultural heritage of the different eu countries, their constitutional traditions and legal rules, and they characterize the union not only as an economic construct but as a community of common values. the european parliament has consistently called for the charter to be given the status of primary law, thereby making it a central reference point for the court of justice and national courts, and giving it a legally binding character. it is with great satisfaction that i finally see this confirmation! at the same time i am pleased to note that the draft reform treaty has preserved the substance of part ii of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. i regret that this incorporation was made in the form of an annex and not in the body of the treaty itself, as its dignity warranted. and i also regret that the united kingdom and poland have exercised an opt-out on fundamental rights, even though recent statements by the new polish government seem to indicate a different stance and much more in line with the common spirit.
in writing. it is clear that this report on the charter of fundamental rights is being used to whitewash the recovery of the essence of the european constitution, bypassing the sovereign will of the peoples of france and the netherlands, who rejected it, and thus seeking to avoid future referendums on the so-called reform treaty. this is unacceptable! that is why we voted against it. in a sense, it is hypocritical to speak of defending fundamental rights when one is trying to hide the contents of such a treaty from the people, to prevent an open and enlightening debate from taking place, to prevent citizens from having a say in national referendums by voting. but it must be stressed once again that the content of the charter is less important than that of other texts, such as the constitution of the portuguese republic, the european social charter and the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of the council of europe, which are internationally valid, more complete and have a recognized legitimacy. finally, it must not be forgotten that the charter is above all instrumental in trying to make the neoliberal, federalist and militarist leap that the reform treaty is intended to make happen.
in writing. the european parliament appears to be voting for at least the second time on the so-called charter of fundamental rights (cdf), this time seven years later. it should be remembered that the cdf was drawn up by a so-called 'convention' set up for this purpose, where, under pressure from the forces which took the most backward positions - namely the british government, led by tony blair of the labour party - a consensus was reached based on the lowest common denominator. the consequence of this procedure is the existence of a cdf which, particularly in relation to social rights, falls far short of what is enshrined, for example, in the constitution of the portuguese republic or in the european social charter, also ratified by portugal. for example, the defence of the right to work, clearly and explicitly enshrined in the constitution of the portuguese republic (article 58) and the european social charter (article 1), is "re-adapted" or "modernized" in the cdf to the "right to work". in addition to this example, others are to be expected, particularly in the light of the 'notes drawn up under the authority of the praesidium of the convention which drew up the charter and updated under the responsibility of the praesidium of the european convention' which drew up the 'european constitution'. 'notes' which are essential for the interpretation of the text of the cdf and which are almost never attached to it. why would i do that?
in writing. i abstained on this motion for a resolution because the portuguese constitution provides for a higher protection of fundamental rights and the view held by some people that community law takes precedence over the domestic law of the member states could lead to very negative legal conflicts.
in writing. it is unacceptable that the european parliament has overlooked the fundamental objectives of the european commission on flexibility, and we voted against it. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the text is replete with references to the need for a 'flexible labour market', 'flexible contractual arrangements' and 'adaptable labour'. this leaves no room for doubt about the real intentions of this report, which is the result of an agreement between the two largest political groups in the european parliament - the ppe and pse - which includes the portuguese members of the ps, psd and cds/pp. we regret that the proposals we made have been rejected, including our opposition to the inclusion of the principles of flexicurity in the framework of the lisbon strategy, in the revision of the employment guidelines for 2008-2010 and in the national reform plans, or to the use of eu funds to finance attacks on workers' rights.
in writing. the european commission's proposal in its communication 'a renewed european tourism policy: towards a stronger partnership for tourism in europe' for a new european tourism policy, which is the subject of this report, deserves my full support! the report reinforces and complements the terms of the commission proposal, improving it, in particular, by providing for:- the defence of the harmonisation of quality standards for tourist accommodation in europe and support for a european oversight of quality management systems;- consumer protection, in particular in the context of electronic tourist services (bookings and payments);;- in the context of accessible tourism, the consideration not only of tourists with reduced mobility, but also of the lack of accessibility of regions with specific natural or geographical characteristics, such as, among others, the outermost regions;- the promotion of the sustainability (economic, social, territorial, environmental and cultural) of tourism;- the strengthening of air passenger rights;- the promotion of the destination europe and european tourist destinations. that is why i voted for it!
in writing. we welcome some of the aspects of this report - such as the promotion of quality standards for tourist accommodation, consumer protection, improving the accessibility of tourist destinations, tourism for all, among other examples - and regret the rejection of our proposals which stressed the need to: - safeguard workers' rights and quality employment, focusing on skills and professional development, ensuring stable contractual links and fair and decent wages; - a cross-sectoral approach to community policies and funds, in particular through the creation of a specific community programme to complement the action of the member states. - or, the reduction of seasonal demand, the minimisation of the impact of resource use and waste production and tourism available to all and without discrimination of any kind. we welcome the adoption of the proposals aimed at:- ensuring sustainable tourism, supporting other upstream and downstream economic activities, enhancing the landscape, cultural, historical and environmental heritage and as a factor contributing to territorial cohesion; - to counteract the emergence of mass tourism enterprises with a strong negative impact on local communities, the environment and the historical and cultural heritage;
in writing. i voted in favour of the alain lipietz report on trade and climate change because i believe that europe must play a leading role in the world in the fight against climate change and therefore i believe that substantial changes are needed in the european union's trade policy to promote a low-carbon economy. this report highlights the need to develop production, consumption and trade patterns that mitigate climate change and its economic impact. measures are therefore needed, such as encouraging local production as a means of alleviating transport needs and introducing common labelling standards and schemes in the european union to raise consumer awareness of the environmental implications of different products.
in writing. we fully agree with the report when it says that 'the current economic model, which is based on the constant maximisation of consumption, production and trade, is not sustainable, as it implies an ever-increasing demand for resources and transport, as well as an increase in waste and emissions'. or when it is said that the current trading system implies 'a division of labour at a global level which entails a very high volume of transport of products' which could more sustainably be produced locally. however, we cannot fail to stress some negative aspects such as the call for an agreement to be reached in the current context of the wto doha round negotiations on the abolition of tariff and non-tariff barriers to 'green goods and services'. or that, implicitly, agreement is given to the negotiation of free trade agreements and thus contradicts what was said earlier about the current trading system. we also stress very negatively the introduction of the 'polluter pays' principle, preferably through the global extension of the emissions trading system, which we reject because of its consequences.
in writing. we must also denounce the unacceptable political maneuver - played by the most vindictive sectors represented in the ep - which has sought to use a report on 'african agriculture' to criticise the legitimate participation of the president of the republic of zimbabwe, a full member of the african union, in the forthcoming eu-africa summit. a nearly-defeated maneuver. as regards the subject of the report, we consider that it contains several positive points, such as the denunciation that support for the 'dynamisation of african agriculture' in order to 'facilitate trade' is based exclusively on the economic partnership agreements, which constitutes blackmail aimed at liberalising trade in agricultural products. by promoting the dependence of the agricultural economy of many of these countries on the eu, the aim is to tie these countries to an agreement that imposes on them an export-oriented agricultural model of monoculture, resulting in obvious and very serious economic, social and environmental problems for the peoples of many african countries as well as for the peoples of the eu countries. we therefore consider that contributing to african agriculture means supporting in solidarity the development of an agricultural model based on the specific needs and specificities of each country and on the food sovereignty and food security of each country.
this point is closed.
the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environmental policy (marine strategy framework directive) [09388/2/2007 - c6-0261/2007 - 2005/0211 (cod)) (rapporteur: marie-noëlle lienemann) (a6-0389/2007) ] is hereby adopted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 december 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environmental policy (marine strategy framework directive) [09388/2/2007 - c6-0261/2007 - 2005/0211 (cod)) (rapporteur: marie-noëlle lienemann) (a6-0389/2007) ] is hereby adopted.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the shadow rapporteur for the epp-ed, i have been following the preparation of this report and the negotiations with the commission. this is a very important report for the planning and evaluation of regional and social policies in the various member states, and in this respect the socioeconomic profile of the european population and housing conditions are one of the most decisive aspects in assessing the improvement of living conditions. we think that the commission's approach to the indicative data which enable this type of analysis to be carried out is correct, and we support it. the coverage, quality and reliability of this type of statistical data therefore need to be further improved. however, we believe that this task must always be carried out with a good balance between cost and benefit in relation to the detail of the information to be provided, without also neglecting the privacy of the people. this report will only be useful if it contributes to the increased periodicity, comparability and accuracy of these data at the level of the european union. this requires very particular care to be taken in the provision of data by the member states, which must be consistent, complete and reliable, because only in this way can exercises and analyses be made on the comparison of the socioeconomic situation at regional, national and community level. the way in which these data are handled is of further importance because the classification of regions for the purposes of the application of the structural funds is largely based on these types of indicators, which means that decisions can and usually result from this process which can have consequences of the greatest importance for the different european regions and for the member states themselves. i hope that the negotiations with the council will lead to greater coherence, clarity and rigour in this whole context. a word i would like to make on the record on the position of the epp-ed on this report: the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. this is reflected in particular in the deletion of sections 1.3 and 2.3 of the annex and in the deletion of certain amendments which were introduced a posteriori and which, in our view, do not contribute to the objectives of improving the quality and reliability of information.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mrs jamila madeira, who was supposed to speak on behalf of the pse, cannot be present because of one of the transports. i shall therefore refer to your point of view, the importance of this report and the concerns i share and have already expressed in this house on development policies. the adoption of the lisbon treaty, which will be signed this week by the heads of state and government, makes it absolutely essential that reliable population data exist in the european union. the new voting method contained in it, which will now take into account not only the vote of the states but also the weight of the population, requires us to be aware that censuses are crucial for the proper functioning of the european union. but it is not just the voting method that makes these rules important. the same applies to all employment, regional, structural or social indicators which take account of the data provided by each member state and which, due to discrepancies in data collection methods or reference periods, often lead to poor analyses and results of dubious validity. in the last period for which this exercise was carried out, 2000, data were only available in 2005 and, even then, of doubtful validity. the regulation we are discussing today, which has been cleared of some inconsistencies that would shock the most distracted reader, takes account of a number of factors which are essential for the good results of population and housing censuses and will allow for pre-defined reference years common to the member states and listed issues which will allow for a high degree of reliability in comparability. a final note to reiterate my commitment to having non-mandatory topics be part of the regulation. it is not just a question of ensuring that member states, when they use questions not typed in the mandatory topics, have a consistent and coherent list to use as a basis when they seek additional information and do not give in to free will, which may have interesting but totally superfluous results. the argument that censuses cost money to justify their eradication from the text, makes no sense. and because these are very costly, we must clearly lay down in the legal text the topics to be analysed so that the results are not rendered useless by the use of different assumptions.
on behalf of the pse group. the ottawa convention was the result of a global and effective mobilization for a just cause that united and unites governments, public opinion and non-governmental organizations. even some non-parties, and unfortunately there are still 37, are already partially complying with the convention. this instrument thus acts as a barometer measuring the degree of participation of countries in the global community of values. and as the commissioner has already said, it is worth remembering what has already been achieved. in 10 years the ottawa states have destroyed over 41 million mines. in the past year alone, serbia, montenegro, angola, cyprus, cape verde and latvia have fulfilled their obligations and fully disposed of their stockpiles of mines. 38 of the 50 mine producing countries have ceased to do so, including four non-parties: egypt, finland, poland and israel. but the celebration of ten years of the convention's triumphs should also serve to highlight the much that remains to be done. ten of the states parties have not yet completed the destruction of their stockpiles, which amount to 14 million mines. of these 10, two states parties are distinguished by possessing considerable stockpiles of anti-personnel mines and by not providing for any measures to destroy them: ethiopia and iraq. but the overwhelming majority of mines are in the hands of the non-party state. china alone continues to cling to an arsenal of 110 million of these inhuman weapons, while continuing to produce them. more shockingly - perhaps because it is an allied country - with which european armies are fighting side by side in places like afghanistan, the united states of america, another country, another non-party state, not only continues to maintain an arsenal of over 10 million mines, but last year the pentagon asked for new funding for two new types of mines that are incompatible with the convention. let us hope that the efforts of the american congress will bear fruit in once again imposing limits on the generosity of this white house in regard to new war toys. the european union still has some glass roofs, with finland and poland still refusing to ratify the convention. but that should not prevent europe from pursuing the broadest possible interpretation of what constitutes an antipersonnel mine. it is scandalous to see how some in this parliament insist on making distinctions based on the formal military definition of engineering rather than on the nature of the damage it causes. a civilian crippled by the action of an anti-tank mine is not interested in byzantines in terms of technical terminology. colonel gaddafi, on his website and in full-page ads he placed in the portuguese press in the final days of the eu-africa summit, attacked the ottawa convention and defended anti-personnel mines as the weapons of the poor. alongside this criminal madman, some in this house are advocating an importation of the convention which allows rich countries to develop and use more sophisticated versions of mines to satisfy an alleged military need. i would like to conclude, mr president, in the face of these obscene statements: the objective of the european union must be simple: a world free of mines, of all mines and of their civilian victims.
i would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur of the pse on the work they have done, not only as shadow rapporteurs on this report but also on the own-initiative report which preceded this debate. their work well represents the spirit of compromise and the constructive stance of the socialists to find a balanced solution. the long months of debate have shown three things: the high economic and social importance of this sector, which was so badly treated in the past by the common agricultural policy; the inadequacy of the current rules with the current market situation and the changes in consumption patterns; and the need for reforms to respond to these problems. the debate also showed a high degree of consensus on the list of problems affecting the sector. but we have not agreed with the solutions proposed by the commission. the broad commitment found in the committee on agriculture, as well as the proposals from the pse, proposals for detailed amendments to supplement it on the most sensitive issues, such as the liberalization of planting rights, the grubbing up of vineyards, the question of capitalisation and aid for grape must, the maintenance of the alcohol content, which is so important for some prestigious wines, such as port, whose competitiveness must be guaranteed, crisis prevention, promotion, etc., are very revealing of the constructive position of the european parliament. the position of parliament is therefore a good stimulus and a good signal to the council and the commission as to the way forward. the general outline of parliament's position shows that a final solution is possible which will be able to respond to the general problems of the sector as well as to the specific problems of the producing regions. commissioner, as we begin to discuss the health check and, above all, the issue that concerns us, namely the post-2013 agricultural scenario, it is important that this reform be completed quickly. i hope therefore that parliament will be able to inspire the council in the decisions that are required, because parliament's position and the general outline of its recommendations are a good sign for european wine and vineyards.
mr president, we are very critical of the european commission's proposal for a revision of the common organization of the market in wine. apart from grubbing up vineyards, the proposal to liberalize planting rights is particularly serious and we consider that the report adopted by the committee on agriculture does not adequately safeguard this issue. the future of vast regions which constitute wine-producing areas with a designation of origin or a geographical indication, but also those which produce good table wines, is at stake. in defence of traditional vine and wine production, employment and biodiversity, we therefore insist on the defence of planting rights, the maintenance of support for vineyard restructuring, production control and quality control, with particular attention to family farming and cooperative wineries, support for the distillation of alcohol by mouth and the use of grape must produced in the region, but we disagree with support for added sugar.
in writing. we support the application of the principle of subsidiarity, and therefore agree that the community should not encroach on the competence of the member states. this is the case, for example, of services provided locally, which do not involve cross-border activities and therefore do not in principle affect the functioning of the internal market. in the field of indirect taxation, therefore, each state should have complete freedom of action in fixing vat rates. even if the council decides on the definitive arrangements for taxing intra-community transactions, member states should be able to apply reduced rates, or even zero rates, to goods and services corresponding to basic needs such as food and medicines, as well as to services provided locally, including services and supplies of goods related to education, social assistance, social security and culture. and even if the final taxation regime for intra-community transactions is decided by the end of 2010, member states should be able to apply reduced rates of vat in order to strengthen the existence and maintenance of locally provided services and the role they play in the formal economy.
in writing. our abstention in this report takes account of the doubts surrounding the creation of artemis, its operation and its management. the establishment of joint ventures in the framework of public-private partnerships, such as the joint technology initiative for the formation of artemis, expressed in this report, includes the idea of using public capital for private purposes and interests, while the reverse cooperation - financial or knowledge transfer - seems to be absent. the logic of this approach is that there is a clash of objectives, since the pillar of private enterprise is based on the accumulation of profits and the pillar of public service is based on serving the public interest and responding to the aspirations of the population. however, investment in research, particularly in the field of integrated computer systems, is a contribution which we consider essential to the development of technology in europe.
in writing. being a european citizen entails a set of rights, including the right to diplomatic and consular protection. any citizen of the union shall enjoy the protection of the diplomatic and consular authorities of any other member state where his country does not have an embassy or consulate in the territory of a third country. this is all the more relevant when we consider that only three countries - china, russia and the usa - have diplomatic and consular representation from all eu member states. in addition to the fact that the representation of member states in third countries can be very heterogeneous, there are also cases where it is non-existent (e.g. maldives). i support this initiative which aims to help ensure that the provisions of article 20 tec and article 46 tfeu can be effectively translated into practice, laying the foundations for a genuine harmonised fundamental right to diplomatic and consular protection for all citizens of the union, irrespective of their nationality. the creation of a european external action service with its own powers and responsibilities under the lisbon treaty is also welcome. while agreeing that it is essential to promote information for citizens, i support the creation of a single european emergency telephone number to enable european citizens to obtain the information they need, particularly in critical and emergency situations.
in writing. this seventh amending budget for 2007 brings in an additional €4 324.8 million in revenue and a further €1 651.4 million in expenditure, thus enabling the member states to reduce their contributions to the community budget by some €5 976.2 million. while the increase in revenue is largely due to the vat and gni balances, budget under-implementation is largely responsible for the significant reduction in expenditure, with cuts mainly affecting cohesion, fisheries, the environment and agriculture. the late adoption of many structural funds operational programmes for 2007-13 (and others) is the justification put forward by the commission and the council for the non-use of the funds foreseen for 2007. however, these amounts are not transferred to the 2008 budget, thus increasing the funds for these policies. it should be noted that the amounts provided for in the 2008 budget for these headings are even below those agreed in the 2007/2013 multiannual financial framework. the non-execution of these amounts from the community budget deserves the most serious follow-up and concern, given that 2007 is the first year of the new financial framework 2007-2013 and that the n+2 rule for the previous financial framework continues to apply, with the funds to be fully used by 2008.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading by mrs marie-noëlle lienemann (a6-0389/2007) on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environment policy (marine strategy framework directive). the compromise reached between the european parliament and the council will enable a framework to be established for the protection and preservation of the marine environment, the prevention of its deterioration and, where possible, the recovery of that environment in areas where it has been affected.
in writing. the recommendation for the second reading of the report establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environment policy was adopted today. it would be important to have a policy for the marine environment within the framework of the necessary cooperation and coordination between the different countries, safeguarding their full sovereignty over their territory and resources, and taking into account economic, social and environmental aspects. but the central issue is respect for the sovereignty of the member states, in particular their eezs and their capacity to implement autonomous measures in defence of their resources. it is therefore important to bear in mind that there is a clause in the proposed 'reform' treaty which seeks to make the management of marine resources within the framework of the common fisheries policy the exclusive competence of the european union. on the other hand, it is also necessary to take into account that marine pollution and intensive maritime transport have impacts on fishing activity and the protection of marine resources. fishermen are therefore the main stakeholders in the protection and regeneration of the marine environment. the measures to recover resources must therefore include the necessary economic and social compensation measures for the sector and its workers, with adequate funding.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading by mr holger krahmer (a6-0398/2007) on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on ambient air quality and cleaner air in europe, as i consider that the text negotiated between the ep and the council is overall positive, both from the point of view of the protection of public health and from the point of view of environmental protection. in europe, 360,000 people die ten years earlier as a result of air pollution. studies show that the effects of air pollution affect children's health in particular, so air quality plans should be able to include specific measures to protect sensitive groups of the population, such as children.
in writing. pollution of the natural resource 'air' is becoming more and more important, especially in the regions and urban centres of the european union countries where the population density is higher. air pollution is harmful to human health, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases and ecosystems. we know that children, the elderly and people who live in the most crowded and congested urban centres, or who live near major traffic lanes, are particularly vulnerable. the european parliament today expressed its position on the council's common position on ambient air quality and cleaner air in europe at second reading. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. the european parliament, for its part, wants to safeguard three main objectives of its position: the setting of more ambitious target values and limit values; greater flexibility in adopting more stringent measures at source and the setting of long-term objectives.
in writing. the report aims to improve the interoperability of the rail system in the community, i.e. to improve the possibility and the permission of a train from one member state to another. apart from other important aspects of this measure, including technical aspects, the directive is intended to avoid any obstacle to the movement of 'community trains'. it is important to remember that this report is part of the strategy for the liberalisation (and privatisation) of rail transport at eu level. as we have stressed in other community legislative initiatives on transport, here too the first objective is to remove any obstacle to the liberalization of international rail transport, in this case by eliminating, through its harmonization, any differentiating standards or requirements applied to rolling stock in each country. finally, it should be stressed that the harmonization and simplification of national authorization procedures and the principle of mutual recognition should never call into question more appropriate standards already established at the level of each member state, nor alienate the prerogative of each member state to establish them.
in writing. the report we are voting on today on the interoperability of the community rail system is of the utmost importance as an incentive for investment in rail transport and a key element in the creation of genuine freedom of movement within the european territory. the proposed measures to facilitate the interoperability of locomotives in the community are measures we have all been waiting for. to create a european transport area without frontiers and which is truly conducive to the free movement of people and goods, we must create the conditions necessary for a journey from lisbon to helsinki to be feasible in all modes of transport. rail transport must be able to develop as a full partner in achieving the objectives of the common transport policy. we must not forget that this is a safe, environmentally friendly means of transport that allows the transport of large quantities of goods and passengers. it is a mode of transport that is at the forefront of combating the negative effects of air pollution, road hazards and congestion itself. i therefore voted in favour of mr ortuondo larrea's report.
in writing. we do not share the view expressed in the report that production aid should be phased out in favour of a single payment scheme for producers based on their production history, with producers being obliged to fulfil the objectives of the cross-compliance system. this system has led to the abandonment of production by many small and mediumsized farmers and family farming and the abandonment of rural areas, to losses of biodiversity and to a further detachment from the objective of food sovereignty in some member states, notably in portugal. however, we agree that the agricultural sector needs more information in order to adapt to the rules of cross-compliance. we also believe that it is essential to provide adequate training to the people who carry out inspections of farmers' activities and that inspectors should have the ability to take into account unforeseen and non-seasonal factors that compromise full compliance with the requirements through no fault of the farmer. it is necessary to take account of the importance of agricultural activity, a genuine public service that farmers provide to society, and therefore support measures, including the timely payment of aid, should be maintained.
i congratulate the portuguese presidency on this report, which describes in detail the meritorious work done, of which i would highlight the moratorium on the death penalty. but what is lacking is critical analysis and, above all, self-criticism. i am an example of the european council's failure to respond to the recommendations of this parliament and senator dick marty on the so-called cia flights. even in the face of evidence that the territory and agents of several member states are involved in the kidnapping and torture of terrorism suspects, thus evading justice, the european council and the portuguese presidency in particular have done nothing to date to fully clarify what has happened, to establish responsibility and to prevent such criminal behaviour from continuing. despite admissions and investigations in the united states, european governments persist in the ostrich policy, thus offending essential european values and interests and seriously compromising europe's credibility in promoting human rights universally.
the debate is closed.
the following are the statements by the council and the commission on the second eu-africa summit held in lisbon on 8 and 9 december 2007.
mr president, we will only know if the eu-africa summit was worthwhile when the next one is held in 2010 and whether the topics discussed there will be new or the same as today. that will be the criterion and the moment to evaluate the results of what happened this weekend in lisbon. but in the meantime, it is possible to take stock. this summit was presented as one of dialogue, of genuine bilateral partnership, of shared responsibility, and this will is meritorious. in the new relationship between europeans and africans, there can be no one leader, they are responsible for their own destiny, and it is up to us, as europe's neighbours, to be generous and consistent in our aid to their development. if by 2010 we are on track to meet the millennium development goals and there is less death, less hunger, more democracy, more respect for human rights, more fair trade and more growth and development, this summit will have been a success. if the same dictators remain in power and the same deals continue to be made, bringing many benefits to very few, then it will have been sadly a missed opportunity.
this summit was held because the portuguese presidency insisted and the african union agreed. it has lost those in europe who wanted to diminish it on the pretext of robert mugabe's presence in lisbon. but anyone who receives the saudi king in london with pomp and circumstance has little authority to speak on human rights. in parallel with the summit, numerous civic actions denounced this duplicity between words and deeds, the duplicity of those who were absent, but also of those who were there. in portugal, the summit allowed africa and its problems to be discussed, and that is the only reason why it was worthwhile. but anyone who hears the presidency and the commission will think that this was a genuine historical event, a moment in which there is a before and an after, and there is an exaggerated manifesto, even for portuguese women of a portuguese-tropical provincialism, just read the european press. progress has been made and the main thing is that african countries have made their own agenda. but beyond that, between the vanity of words and the meagerness of results, the gulf persists. the summit went better than cairo. it wasn't hard! it is difficult to respond in solidarity when one starts with the idea fixed in the economic partnership agreements.
the eu-africa summit was made possible by the diplomatic and political persistence of the portuguese presidency. europe has echoed the success, but it is doubtful that africa will, especially the men and women who are fighting oppressive and kleptocratic regimes. they know that most of their representatives are as much about respecting what they committed themselves to at the summit as legitimacy: none. the portuguese presidency has the task of testing the joint strategy and the action plan that have been approved. and since the most serious tragedies facing africa in darfur and somalia were only superficially evoked at the summit, it is time to move on to practical measures. when will the european forces advance into chad, promised for last summer? when will the eu take strong action against the sudanese regime which is obstructing the hybrid force mandated by the security council to protect the civilian population in darfur? when will the security council decide to send troops or other european contributions to bring the invading ethiopian troops out of somalia? the organisation of summits does not justify leaving behind such urgent issues, which call into question the credibility of the eu in the eyes of millions of africans and europeans. we must show that the protection of lives in sudan, somalia, eastern congo and other countries in africa is more important than the signing of contracts in the tents of the criminal gaddafi.
in writing. while it is too early to assess the real scope of the eu-africa summit decisions, and despite contradictions, the rejection of eu free trade agreements (so-called 'economic partnership agreements') by african countries is worth noting. ironically, the rejection - despite all the unacceptable pressure and blackmail from the eu - of these so-called 'economic partnership agreements' by african countries is a real example of what the eu's much-vaunted 'good governance' should be. that is, the assumption and defence by a state of control of its economy. we believe that effective development cooperation requires respect for national sovereignty, political and economic independence, the right of each people to decide its present and future, to define and build its state and its development project. such cooperation in solidarity is incompatible with the more or less concealed aims and visions of interference, exploitation and plunder of resources and political-economic domination. it was said that the eu-africa summit had turned a 'new page'. we will continue to ensure that the eu and its large transnational corporations do not continue to (re) write the neocolonialist ambitions of the eu.
mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the portuguese presidency is coming to an end and can already present a series of appreciable successes. i am not one of those who overemphasize the diplomatic initiatives related to the summits with brazil and africa, among others, only time will tell if they translate into concrete measures or if they are just big events with media visibility. but i would like to emphasize the structural measures which have been taken for the good of europe during these six months. let me highlight three: the end of the institutional crisis with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, which will be signed tomorrow; the proclamation of the european charter of fundamental rights, which will now be binding; the historic enlargement of the schengen area, with the integration of nine new member states and almost four million square kilometres; the strategic feasibility and the important galileo programme, which some people would prefer not to have, leaving the united states, russia and china alone. i would also like to highlight the fruitful legislative work in collaboration with the european parliament and the excellent understanding with the commission, chaired by mr barroso. interinstitutional cooperation has worked and produced good results. i wish you, mr president of the council, the best of luck for the council meeting on 14 december. we are still waiting for important decisions, both in the field of foreign policy, with particular emphasis on kosovo, and in the european response to the challenges of globalisation. i would like to congratulate the portuguese presidency in particular on the inclusion of the issue of european immigration policy in the council's agenda, where president barroso will be able to highlight the timely initiatives of the european commission in this regard. there are problems and challenges which clearly go beyond the dimension of each member state and call for a common approach, which is particularly obvious, as has been said, in an area without internal borders. mr president, may i conclude with a national reference. portugal has always done its best to serve the common interest when it held the presidency of the council. this was the case in 1992 with prime minister cavaco silva, then minister for foreign affairs and now mep joão de deus pinheiro, it was the case in 2000 with prime minister antónio guterres, and it is the case today with the third portuguese presidency of the council of the union. i would like to emphasize, mr secretary of state, your personal commitment, that of minister luís amado and prime minister socrates, but also that of all those who have actively contributed to the success of the presidency here in brussels and in lisbon. i would like to highlight the work of reper, mentioning the talent of ambassador mendonça e moura and thanking dr alexandre leitão for his effective liaison with the european parliament.
we are witnessing yet another repetition of the fundamental lines of neoliberal policy, which were deepened during the portuguese presidency. the signing of the treaty of lisbon tomorrow, which will take up the essence of the so-called 'european constitution', is undoubtedly the most serious issue representing a qualitative leap in this neoliberal integration which is aggravating social problems and inequalities. instead of the answers to improve working conditions, they are betting on flexicurity to intensify the precariousness of work. instead of responses to improve living conditions and tackle poverty, which affects more than 80 million people, they present an even more neoliberal version of the lisbon strategy to deepen liberalizations and privatizations of public services. as was the case on 18 october with the demonstration in lisbon, the struggle of the workers and the people will continue against this treaty and these policies and for the demand for binding referendums on the treaty after duly pluralistic debates.
tomorrow, the prime ministers and heads of state will sign their treaty in lisbon. the day after tomorrow, they'll be calling for ratification. the change is not in the text, which replicates the constitution rejected by the french and dutch. the change is in the method. now they want quick ratification without a referendum. a few days ago, mr zappatero expressed in this very room his wish that the citizens of the various states should be able to vote on the treaty which will regulate our collective future on the same day. at friday's summit the governments will have the opportunity to refute the suspicion that each of them is being held responsible for wanting the new treaty to be approved at the expense of the people. take zappatero's suggestion with both hands. mark the day. today the treaty of lisbon is yours alone. it will never be the europeans' as long as its viability depends on the non-referendum. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council of ministers.
mr president, mr president-in-office, the legacy of the portuguese presidency is very stimulating, but it is also very responsible. it is this political legacy that this week's summit should consolidate and develop. the signing of the treaty of lisbon tomorrow, the solemn ratification of the charter of fundamental rights by the three institutions of the european union in a few moments, the opening of a strategic partnership with brazil without undermining the european union's special relations with mercosur, the relaunch of the periodic strategic summits with the african continent, and the push for the lisbon strategy and so many other decisive points for the future of europe are remarkable achievements, but they will only serve a purpose if the policies are successful and the objectives are achieved, which are indispensable to making europe stronger, more cohesive, more united and more decisive for world stability. this is the responsibility which the member states, the european council, the commission and this parliament have inherited from the portuguese presidency. but it is also the stimulus that will enable us all to emerge from the institutional crisis that has limited europe and its integration process over the last two years. i would like to repeat what many have already said: my sincere congratulations to the portuguese presidency, but also my wish that the next slovenian presidency will be able to continue along these lines and develop what has been achieved. the next brussels summit should have as its sole objective the creation of the political conditions for this to happen.
the rapporteur. i should like to begin this short speech by welcoming the decision of the committee on fisheries of the european parliament to draw up an own-initiative report on the common organization of the market in fishery and aquaculture products. it is well known and acknowledged that the cmo has so far failed to achieve the objectives for which it was set up, namely to ensure the stability of the fisheries markets and a fair income for producers. we therefore welcome the european commission's decision, albeit belatedly, to carry out a thorough assessment of the current cfp and call on it to undertake its urgent review in order to increase its contribution to ensuring the sector's income, the stability of the markets, the improvement of the marketing of fishery products and the increase of their added value, in particular by significantly strengthening its financial means. although some of our initial proposals did not achieve the necessary consensus in the committee on fisheries, we believe that the report now before us contains measures which should be taken into account, such as: assessing whether the current intervention mechanisms are the most appropriate and have the necessary flexibility to meet the needs of the different member states; the compensatory allowance for sardines, as is already the case for tuna; the need for the structural funds to contribute to the modernisation and creation of support infrastructures for producers in production-marketing; effective support for the establishment and operation of producer organisations, particularly in small-scale coastal and artisanal fisheries; the application of the same standards and requirements to fishery products imported and marketed on the internal market as those applied to community fishery products. these are issues which, although they may not be of significance to some members, are very important to fishermen.
in writing. the aviation agreement with morocco is the second agreement on the so-called 'common european airspace' and the first concluded in this context with a country outside the european continent. as a political note, we regret that this agreement - as was unacceptably the case with fisheries - does not explicitly clarify 'that territory under the jurisdiction of the kingdom of morocco is understood to be territory under moroccan sovereignty in accordance with international law', thus safeguarding respect for international law and the legitimate and inalienable rights of the moroccan people. the sovereignty of morocco over the territory of western sahara is not legally recognized by international law, as the international court of justice in the hague pointed out in october 1975. morocco, which illegally occupies the territory of western sahara, has consequently no sovereignty or jurisdiction over that territory. the agreement is based almost exclusively on two objectives which we oppose: the opening up of markets and regulatory harmonization to promote competition in air transport.
in writing. in june and july the commission received the third and fourth applications for the mobilisation of this fund. the applications concern two german and one finnish companies, all in the telecommunications sector, specifically in the manufacture of mobile phones. both are linked to the relocation of production to third countries, which has led to the dismissal of 4211 workers. so far, in addition to these two applications and the two french applications already approved, the commission has received further applications from italy, malta, spain and portugal. applications to be approved early next year. as we have said, the existence of this fund cannot serve as a cushion for the unacceptable socioeconomic costs of relocating companies and their redundancies. we insist on the creation of a regulatory framework to prevent and penalize the relocation of companies. we believe that public aid to enterprises should be conditional on long-term commitments by them to regional development and employment and that no aid should be granted which could be used to promote relocations. it is also essential to strengthen the role of employee representatives on company boards and in the taking of management decisions of a structural nature.
in writing. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, together with the amendment to the interinstitutional agreement, is an integral part of the proposal for the community budget for 2008. in addition to the correction of eur 1 600 million in the multiannual financial framework, the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is intended to supplement the financing of the european programmes for the global satellite navigation system (egnos-galileu) by some eur 200 million. the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) is also financed by the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument with a further eur 70 million. the rapporteur stresses that 'external actions in general, and the cfsp in particular, are not sufficiently covered in the long term in the light of the requirements now identified'. it is clarified that among the 'identified requirements' is the strengthening of eu 'missions' in kosovo and afghanistan. this is the impetus for the eu's increasing military interference and interventionism, supporting nato operations both in the balkans - as exemplified by the preparations to support the 'unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo', in violation of international law - and in central asia, in particular by financing these 'missions' from the community budget. militaristic policies and objectives with which we clearly disagree.
in writing. simplification of european legislation on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries is very important for the development of a simple and easily managed cap. i welcome the commission's proposal to improve the system, in particular the consolidation of regulations which involves the merging of the two regulations on the internal market and third countries. i am voting in favour of the golik report, emphasizing its reference to the need to pay more attention to the issues of information and promotion in the wto negotiations.
in writing. the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products (cmo), one of the four pillars of the common fisheries policy, should be radically reorganised. priorities include the review of aspects related to consumer information on fishery products and a fairer distribution of the added value of fish throughout the marketing process (with particular emphasis on the first sale). the eu must also find solutions to the 'social dumping' which is now taking place in some third countries and which is taking away the competitive power of our fisheries products. the national interests are safeguarded in this report and it deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of the report on the common fisheries policy, which sends a clear signal to the european commission that the common fisheries policy needs to be revised urgently and with ambition, so that it can make a greater contribution to ensuring the profitability of the sector, improving the marketing of fisheries products and increasing their added value, in particular by significantly increasing its financial resources. given that the cmo should effectively meet the objectives for which it was set up and that the uncertainty of income in the fisheries sector is largely due to the way in which the sector is marketed, the way in which prices are formed at first sale and the irregular characteristics of this activity, we regret that the committee on fisheries has rejected our proposals which really went to the heart of the matter, including: - the introduction of maximum profit rates; - the need for public aid and the creation of effective mechanisms for intervention in the market; - the consideration of production costs in the definition of guide prices; - the introduction of financial compensation for the temporary voluntary reduction of the catch of fish or of the fishing effort. we shall, however, continue to intervene in defence of these just measures.
in writing. as we have emphasized, national authorities have long complied with and enforced the requirements in force in the field of civil aviation resulting from international agreements. cooperation between eu member states and between them and other countries is already a reality and could even be further encouraged and developed, but ensuring respect for each country's sovereignty, for workers and their rights (in particular, ensuring social harmonisation by applying the most favourable conditions) and for the rights of users. however, the competences of each member state in the field of civil aviation have been gradually transferred to the eu, a process all the more negative when it is done in a framework where its limits are not clearly defined. the creation of the european aviation safety agency is essentially another 'breakthrough' in this direction. it should be stressed that this agency will be responsible for the tasks currently assigned to each national authority. the main aim of this measure is to achieve the so-called 'single european sky' and to liberalise air transport and air navigation at eu level. liberalisation which, in the name of financial profitability, calls into question labour rights, the quality of services and safety levels.
in writing. as with most regulations in this area, the specific objectives of this report are based on the harmonisation of the legislative and administrative provisions of the member states to promote the development of the european internal market, in this case with regard to nutrition and health claims on food. the proposal consists of two amendments to regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 of the european parliament and of the council on nutrition and health claims made on foods and aims to provide for an appropriate transitional period for health claims made on children's development and health. nutrition claims used in a member state before 1 january 2006 in accordance with the national provisions applicable to them, which are not listed in the annex to regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, may continue to be used for a period of three years after the entry into force of that regulation. health claims not related to children's development and health also benefit from transitional measures as described in article 28 (5) and (6) of the regulation. they now provide for similar transitional measures for claims relating to children's development and health.
in writing. this report contains some amendments to the proposal for a directive aimed at liberalizing the secondary market in spare parts, applying to the automobile industry, the mechanical industry and the production of capital goods and consumer goods. the commission proposal defends unprotected markets whereas this report advocates a five-year transitional period for countries with market protection, such as portugal. we know that on the one hand the protected market leads to a monopoly by large companies on the trade in spare parts, since on the protected markets the consumer has to buy any broken or damaged part from the producer of origin. the argument is that the design of the article cannot be changed, the best known example being the automobile industry, although this proposal for a directive also applies to other industries. but there are practical cases where the replacement of a single part requires a whole assembly, with the inherent costs to the consumer. however, on the other hand, in portugal there are factories, particularly those linked to the automobile sector, which continue to operate because of the manufacture of such spare parts by large brands and for which the 'liberalisation' of the market could cause serious problems.
in writing. we voted against this report because it does not significantly change the most important aspects of the european commission's bad proposal for the wine and wine sector. as we have always said, we disagree with this liberal position, which seeks to move towards the dismantling of the common organization of the market in wine, albeit with contradictions, which the european parliament itself deepens by allowing the addition of sugar, including increasing the possible graduation in relation to values still in force. but one of the most serious aspects is the opening it leaves to the hypothesis of the liberalisation of planting rights from 2013, although the report acknowledges that this measure will only serve the concentration of production in the hands of large wine companies that already benefit from large public support and other privileges. we also regret that the proposals we made to maintain planting rights, to support the restructuring of vineyards, especially family farming, small and medium-sized winegrowers and cooperative wineries, were not adopted, although we note positively the approval of some proposals, in particular the proposal which advocates the distillation of alcohol by mouth.
in writing. although i agree with the need to reform the common organisation of the market in wine and support the european commission's proposal in general terms, i believe that the castiglione report has made an important contribution by proposing some amendments which substantially improve the commission's document. i would like to highlight, among other positive aspects, the introduction of the possibility of continuing to support the distillation of alcohol by mouth. i voted in favour of amendments nos 33 and 223 because i believe that the liberalisation of the sector should not be abrupt and i rejected amendments nos 314, 347, 293 and 217 because i do not agree with the introduction of the possibility of continuing to enrich with sugar, a practice which can cause imbalances between producers, and i therefore support the original text of the european commission.
in writing. although this resolution contains criticisms, albeit mild ones, of the violations of human rights committed in the name of the so-called 'fight against terrorism' - which we have clearly and firmly denounced from the outset - it does not depart from this, nor does it dismantle it, when international law is disregarded in its name and state terrorism is practised. yes, there is certainly a need to criticise the violation of the right to a fair trial and data protection, the lack of transparency and democratic control, the refusal of the council to respond to 'allegations of abuse of power under the pretext of the fight against terrorism, in particular with regard to extraordinary renditions by the cia and secret detention centres'. however, we cannot accept that, under the guise of the so-called 'fight against terrorism', we should 'rejoice greatly at the adoption of the new reform treaty' and urge 'the member states to ratify it'; the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is a major player in the world economy. the commission has also proposed that the powers of europol be strengthened and that it be given 'a competence of its own to conduct investigations'.
in writing. we voted against this resolution because the proposals in which we expressed our deep concern about the acceleration of the process of liberalization and deregulation in many sectors, which is endangering employment, the quality of services provided and the future of public services in the eu, were not accepted. what remains is a prejudice against the state as a provider of services of general interest, insisting on liberalisation. monetary and fiscal policy in the eu has also been restrictive, with price stability and fiscal consolidation as the overriding objective, in line with the stability and growth pact, although it is known that the process of nominal convergence has had a negative impact on economic growth and employment, economic and social cohesion, real convergence between eu member states and public investment. it also insists on the neoliberal lisbon strategy, which has been the main instrument used in the eu to promote the liberalisation and privatisation of public services and facilities, the flexibility and adaptability of labour markets, wage moderation and the opening up to private interests of the bulk of social security provisions, including reforms and health.
in writing. among the many aspects that would warrant a critical comment on this subject, i would like to focus on one of the priorities for 2008, which the president of the commission has identified as one of the most significant: the ratification of the proposed treaty on european union. the majority of meps 'welcomed the commission's commitment to supporting the ratification of the reform treaty', 'urged the commission to ... step up its efforts to develop a more efficient communication policy in order to achieve a better understanding of eu action by citizens ... and to prepare for the ratification of the reform treaty and the european elections in 2009' and 'requested the commission to clearly specify how it intends to implement the content of the priorities ... in particular as regards the reform treaty'. in view of the unacceptable role played by the commission in the referenda on the so-called 'european constitution' held in 2005, these intentions, long proclaimed and now reaffirmed, will, if implemented, represent a genuine interference in the ratification processes that will be the responsibility of each member state. what a contradiction from the president of the commission who, when asked about the ratification process, replies that it is up to each member state to decide, but who points out that one of his priorities is precisely to interfere in that decision!
in writing. since it was not possible to secure private funding to complete the funding of the galileo project as originally planned, the european union "decided" that it would be secured only with public capital, namely from the community budget. this is the reason for the amendment of the interinstitutional agreement (ia) - which established the multiannual financial framework for 2007-2013 - which increases the ceilings of commitment appropriations under subheading 1a (competitiveness and growth) for the years 2008 to 2013 by a total amount of eur 1.600 billion, in current prices, at the expense of under-budgeting and under-implementation of appropriations under heading 2 (management and preservation of natural resources, i.e. agriculture, fisheries and environment) in 2007. with this revision of the iia and the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument, the eu is ensuring the implementation of this major 'priority' by securing its financing. it is also unclear whether, once the galileo project has been realised - and, it should be noted, with public funding - it will not be subsequently 'offered' to private capital, for example, through some kind of public-private partnership, with the public bearing the costs and the profits going to private capital.
in writing. if there were any doubts about the eu's real intentions regarding the free trade agreements it intends to establish with the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific), the so-called 'economic partnership agreements' (epas) - which were so clearly shown at the recent eu-africa summit by the refusal of african countries to sign them - the reading of the resolution now adopted would suffice to clarify them. however, joão cravinho, portugal's secretary of state for foreign affairs and cooperation, as president of the council, had already done so at the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in kigali on 21 november. although forced to back down (for the time being), the eu is seeking to bypass resistance by moving forward with a "two-stage negotiating approach" to the epas, "starting with trade in goods" and then "incorporating other areas such as services and investment", while waving millions and millions of euros with which it intends to mortgage the sovereignty and independence (economic, then political) of the acp countries. this is the meaning of the decision of the general affairs and external affairs council of 17 november 2007. the majority of the ep applauds and supports it. we, for our part, denounce and oppose these intentions and policies by which the eu is seeking to economically re-colonize the acp countries.
at the summit, europe spoke out about how china is perverting wto rules, violating labour rights, exporting products harmful to health, pirating technology and hindering european access to the chinese market. the chinese leaders were not used to hearing the eu speak so frankly and retaliated by withholding the joint statement for a few days, but the european leadership unfortunately did not hold the balance, not only made unacceptable concessions on the taiwan referendum, which does not contradict the "one china policy", but also refrained from confronting beijing with serious human rights problems. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the death penalty, the release of prisoners since the tiananmen massacre, are among the reasons why this parliament supports the maintenance of the arms embargo on china. arbitrary arrests and trials, corruption and forced evictions, persecution and repression of journalists and internet users, repression of tibetans and minorities, responsibility for the tragedies in darfur and burma. none of these fundamental issues were on the agenda of the summit. of course, it is not just the eu that has to hold beijing to account for hosting the 2008 olympic games. if the international olympic committee is measuring air quality, why is beijing not measuring its respect for the olympic ethic vis-à-vis its citizens and foreigners? no one, least of all the council and the eu commission, can continue to play second fiddle to the struggle for freedoms and human rights in china. that's a marathon that the 2008 olympic framework will only encourage. it affects not only millions and millions of chinese, but it will have consequences for all of humanity.
on september 6, two dozen bells in the jewish cemetery of lisbon and swastikas inscribed on the tombstones were vandalized. the two men responsible have been arrested. they are members of the national front, a portuguese skinhead far-right organisation which declares itself to be in favour of racial warfare and violent actions for the supremacy of the white race. this and other cases, including the wave of anti-muslim sentiment in several european countries and the racist violence that has recently struck the roma community in italy, demonstrate that xenophobia and violent racism are among us and that we cannot afford to minimize them. in the portuguese case, the initial temptation of the authorities was to devalue the case and declare anti-semitism as contrary to the supposedly tolerant nature of portuguese society. but the presence of the ministers of justice and the interior in the jewish cemetery for the ceremony of cleansing the fields and the visibility that this demonstration of solidarity had in the portuguese media serve as a lesson for other cases in portugal and beyond. extremism in europe can only be effectively combated if political representatives and the media take their responsibilities by giving visibility to this type of crime and identifying it as a direct attack on the essence of democracy, europe and humanity.
we appreciate the fact that this debate has taken place and that my group has made a major contribution to it. this is a debate which we want to help defend employment and activity in the textile and clothing sector, a sector which is strategic for the european union and which has been so unprotected and undervalued. as for the questions to the commission, we have nothing further to add, they have been put. as regards the joint motion for a resolution which is to be adopted by the european parliament today, we would like to stress that, although it contains a number of points which, if implemented, could defend and enhance the textile and clothing sector in the european union, others must merit our reservations. just three examples: the so-called globalisation adjustment fund should not be used as a temporary cushion for the unacceptable social and economic costs of closing down and relocating businesses, with the consequent destruction of jobs. in other words, we must look at the causes and not the effects. the current liberalization policies must be reversed and financial resources made available which make an effective contribution to the protection of employment, to the modernization of the sector and to the promotion of the establishment of other industrial sectors, including those linked to textiles and clothing, which enable industrial diversification in the regions where it is currently concentrated. it will also make little sense to urge the european union to encourage others to review their monetary policies if the european union does not first and critically reassess the policy of a strong euro and its impact on the exports of some european union countries. it is equally pointless to call for trade defence measures against china when at the same time one supports the establishment of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. it is not appropriate for this speech to recapitulate our proposals for textiles and clothing in the european union. they are expressed in our motion for a resolution. we would like to refer to some of the amendments we have tabled to the joint resolution. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission's proposals express concern about the commission's intention to review trade defence instruments, and we believe that it is in the interests of companies to relocate their production to countries where there are fewer low-wage workers and where low social and environmental standards are applied. proposals for a community programme to support textiles and clothing, particularly in the less-favoured regions which are currently dependent on this sector, and for support for small and mediumsized enterprises. proposals stressing the need to create a regulatory framework to penalise relocations, making the granting of public aid to enterprises conditional on long-term commitments in terms of regional development and employment, including the reimbursement of aid in the event of non-compliance. finally, proposals calling for the strengthening of the power of employee representatives on company boards and in the taking of management decisions of a structural nature. proposals which we hope will have the support of the european parliament.
globalisation has the effect in europe of producing firms losing out and technology exporting firms gaining. all this is clearly reflected in the internal cohesion. in the case of the textile industry, the small and medium-sized size of much of the sector's business fabric is a disadvantage in a market that represents 6% of all world trade and an estimated turnover of €566 billion. and many producing regions are suffering the consequences of economic restructuring processes, making it difficult for the sector to be sustainable. european production is forced to compete with those of countries which artificially devalue their currency, do not respect the rules of environmental protection or bear the costs of it, frequently violate intellectual property rights and, what is even more serious, in the social and labour field, in addition to having much lower wage costs, do not apply measures for the protection of workers as strict as the european ones. this makes it all the more urgent that the wto rules be respected and that the commission be able to monitor imports, and not allow, as has already happened, an artificial sponge to be passed over the excesses that have in fact occurred with china in relation to the entry of textile products. the commission should take all measures to safeguard the interests of the union, including, if necessary, the imposition of quotas on china, possible by the end of 2008, within the wto legal framework and also the requirement of full compliance with the fair-play rules. european producers lack incentives for research and development and the qualification of the workforce, good access to external markets and effective control of counterfeiting. intellectual property is the basis of the surplus value of the sector and must be defended at all costs to encourage high value-added production. finally, mr president, commissioner, consumer safety must not be forgotten. it is the commission's responsibility to prevent any product which is harmful to the safety of our families from entering the homes of citizens.
in writing. the agreement reached between the commission, the council and parliament on the 2008 community budget exposes the true weight of the so-called 'big countries' and 'rich countries' by responding to their demand to limit the ceiling of the community budget as much as possible. despite all efforts to downplay this fact, the truth is that both the proposals for the community budget from the commission, the council and the ep, and now this agreement, fall short of what is envisaged in the 2007/2013 financial framework for 2008. in fact, as happened last year and in the previous financial framework 2000/2006. the reality is that the current community budget for 2008 represents a reduction of more than eur 9 billion in payments compared to what was agreed in the 2008 financial framework - that is, in terms of payments, the community budget is reduced from 1.04% to 0.96% of community gni. on the other hand, the community budget has progressively been clarifying its priorities by financing the eu's neoliberal, federalist and militarist policies. therefore, we reject this agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft budget for 2008, firstly because it is clearly in line with the principles set out in the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. secondly, because the proposal which was voted on, after negotiations with the commission and the council, has finally overcome the serious problems which arose with regard to the financing of the galileo project. the solution found, which allows projects in the transeuropean networks to be financed at a reasonable level, is also very positive. thirdly, i also note as very positive, at the treasury level, the solutions that have been found with regard to the payment budget for the headings financing the projects of the european social fund and the european regional development fund, very important elements for portugal to be able to develop the projects it needs in order to be able to show economic growth rates much higher than those it has shown in recent years and thus to approach the average level of the european union.
in writing. for nearly 50 years, the council of europe has been developing a system of standards, legal and judicial instruments for the protection and promotion of fundamental rights, and has become a reference in the field of human rights, the rule of law and democracy in europe. the fundamental rights agency, which is the legal successor of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, should contribute to increasing the coherence and cohesion of the european union's fundamental rights policy. since the two institutions share the same objective (the strengthening of the protection of fundamental rights), close cooperation between them is essential. this agreement aims to ensure the complementarity and added value of its activities and to avoid duplication with the activities carried out by the council of europe, as provided for in article 9 of the regulation establishing the eu agency for fundamental rights. i support the conclusion of this agreement in a spirit of cooperation, transparency and complementarity, in particular by establishing a framework for cooperation between the two, where regular contacts and meetings, an exchange of information and coordination of activities should take place, avoiding duplication and ensuring the best possible use of resources.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the graefe zu baringdorf report, considering that the adoption of the electronic identification system for sheep and goats is urgent and deploring the 17-month delay in the commission's proposal. i agree with the amendment to the commission proposal to identify a specific date for the entry into force of the system, with 31 december 2009 as stated in the graefe zu baringdorf report as the most appropriate date. i reject amendments nos 4 and 5, which are against the rapid implementation of this system. i also reject amendment no 3 because i believe that the aim of the document in question is to set a timetable and not to discuss principles.
in writing. increasing mobility within the eu, combined with the increasing number of separating couples, has led to an increase in cross-border maintenance litigation. the current procedures for obtaining food credits tend to be too long and complicated and in many cases impossible to achieve results. in the meantime, the creditors, the vast majority of whom are children, are living in great economic difficulty and in many cases do not even have the means to survive. this initiative is therefore of the utmost importance, since it should facilitate the functioning of the internal market and freedom of movement by removing the obstacles created by the discrepancies between member states in the implementation of food obligations. it should ensure that those decisions are recognised and enforced throughout the union as quickly and effectively as possible and at the lowest possible cost. it will simplify the lives of citizens, while at the same time it should have positive social effects by allowing maintenance creditors residing in another member state to make it easier to apply for the recovery of maintenance claims before the competent court and, once the decision has been given, to have it recognised in all member states without further formalities.
in writing. since 1997, when the ottawa convention was signed, and on the basis of data from last november, 156 states have acceded to the convention. significantly and unfortunately, the united states is not part of that group of countries. the resolution adopted today rightly refers to the inconsistency of the european commission's action when it announces its intention to actively contribute to the destruction of anti-personnel mines and to supporting the victims, who are, as we recall, mostly children, and at the same time cancels the specific budget line for anti-personnel mines at the end of 2006. given the importance of this action and the fact that the support for victims is far from sufficient to meet their needs, we believe that a specific budget line on anti-personnel mines should be introduced to finance mine action, aid to victims and the destruction of mine stockpiles, and we add that substantial increases in funds should be made. we regret that the proposals signed by our group in this parliament, which call on all countries to immediately stop the production of landmines and that under no circumstances or conditions should troops from eu countries use landmines, have not been adopted.
in writing. the resolution adopted today by the european parliament expresses solidarity with the victims of the shipwrecks in the kerch strait - that is, the black sea and the sea of azov - which have caused an environmental catastrophe. the environmental impact of the oil spill in this strait was aggravated by the rapid dispersal of pollution due to strong winds and rippling that occurred. we generally support the positions contained in the resolution, stressing the importance of the member states in ensuring that ships registered in their registers comply with international standards and in preventing maritime accidents and combating their consequences. we believe that the implementation of measures to reduce environmental risks and to improve maritime safety is necessary, and that any initiative taken at eu level in this context should be based on enhanced cooperation between member states and should not undermine their competences in this area.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of our proposals which:- warn that the so-called double-checking surveillance mechanism will only make sense if we ensure that the situation of 2005 does not recur and that further safeguard measures are needed;- and which propose the creation of a community programme to support textiles and clothing, particularly targeted at the most disadvantaged regions currently dependent on this sector and support for smes; we regret the rejection by the majority of the ep of our proposals which, for example, referred to the serious consequences of the liberalization of textiles and clothing worldwide, with the closure and relocation of businesses, unemployment and situations of serious socio-economic crisis; - i know . they stressed that some countries had adopted safeguard measures by the end of 2008, and wondered why the european union had not done so as well. - insisted on the creation of a regulatory framework to penalise relocations, making the granting of public aid to enterprises conditional on long-term commitments in terms of regional development and employment, including the reimbursement of aid in the event of non-compliance;- or on strengthening the power of workers' representatives on the board of directors of enterprises and in taking management decisions of a structural nature.
in writing. among other things, this report contains a real fallacy. it recognises that the problem of poverty 'remains unresolved and tends to worsen in korea, which according to oecd statistics is ranked among the three oecd member countries with not only the largest income gap but also the one with the most pronounced tendency towards widening this gap' (and, we add, this is not an isolated case, as the gap between the poor and the rich has also widened in the eu, particularly in portugal, where the gap between the richest and the poorest is steadily widening, with around two million portuguese living below the poverty line). the report stresses the need to adopt a 'free trade' agreement between the eu and korea and to liberalize trade, when it is known that these policies have and will continue to favour the concentration of wealth in the major economic and financial groups, both in the eu and in korea. the agreement will serve to put even more pressure on workers to accept low wages and the loss of social rights and gains in the name of 'competitiveness' and the increase in fabulous profits for a few. meanwhile, about the shipping industry, not a word...
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to join my voice to that of all the colleagues who have spoken and would particularly like to remind you that this year we are celebrating the european year of equal opportunities and that equal opportunities, by definition, cannot have borders and that what is happening to women in saudi arabia, and indeed also in the greater middle east in general, is something that in no way can leave us indifferent. i would like to take up one of the issues raised by our colleague, mr tannock, which is precisely the question of freedom of movement. the association of women motorists was set up in riyadh on 27 september. it is an association which has already celebrated on 6 november the 17th anniversary of the demonstration against this ban, which has already collected 1,000 signatures, which has a huge force, led by four saudi women and i was going to appeal to the whole house, and very particularly to the presidency, to give all the support to this initiative of saudi arabia and i would also remind that, in addition to saudi arabia, there are extraordinarily more serious situations that are happening right now in iraq. i would remind you of the murder, earlier this year, of 40 women in basra for not respecting the dress code that is now being imposed in iraq, a country where women had the right to vote before they had it in portugal and which is today experiencing the introduction of the most barbaric fanaticism. and this cannot leave us indifferent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, i would like to congratulate mr josé sócrates on an excellent presidency. mr president, i congratulate you on your support and commitment. interinstitutional cooperation has worked and produced good results. i must say, moreover, that i did not understand the point of mr schultz's speech and i did not understand the reference to the bolkenstein directive which president barroso inherited from the previous commission. we are witnessing in this parliament the excellent cooperation that the president of the european commission and this european commission have been undertaking with the european parliament, the cooperation that has worked well with all the members, the portuguese members are witness to this, the psd members are proud to have contributed to the success of this presidency. portugal has always done its best when it held the presidency of the council. it was the case in 1992 with cavaco silva and the then foreign minister joão de deus pinheiro, it was the case in 2000 with prime minister antónio guterres, it was the case in 2007 with the third presidency of the council of the union, with josé sócrates and minister luis amado. i would like to emphasize a symbolic measure to which president socrates has already referred: the recent adoption by the council of the european day against the death penalty. this is the europe of which we can be proud, the europe of common values, finally shared by all the member states without exception. and i would like to mention three structural measures that were taken during the six months and which were the most important in my view: the end of the institutional crisis, with the adoption of the treaty and the proclamation of the european charter of fundamental rights as a binding instrument; the historic enlargement of the schengen area, which, as you know, i have followed directly, which has added nine more member states and almost four million square kilometres, which was only possible this year with the portuguese ingenuity in the solution found; and the feasibility of the strategic and important galileo programme, which some would prefer not to exist, leaving the exclusive responsibility to the united states, russia and china. president josé sócrates, i congratulate you and wish you a merry christmas and a happy new year. the european presidency was a successful one, but 2008 will be a very different year for you in national politics, the portuguese also demand results, and my scepticism is not surprising. i am one of those who think he is a better president of the council than he has been prime minister of portugal.
mr president, how was it possible to do so much in such a short time? this question from the member of the european parliament sums up the general opinion on the portuguese presidency of the european union: a success. and in reply to mr carlos coelho, let me say that i wonder how it was possible to achieve the results that are visible and recognised by everyone as president of the european union and, at the same time, in portugal to achieve the results that he has achieved, almost seeming to have the gift of ubiquity. in fact, if there is one thing that the portuguese prime minister cannot be accused of, it is that he has not fulfilled his duty in both of these functions and that he has not always been where he should have been and where he needed to be. ladies and gentlemen, i have very little time to say all that i would like to say, two minutes is not enough. it is a thank you, it is a congratulations, it is a recognition of the contribution of many, but also to draw attention to the fact that some doubted, some did not believe. but fortunately there were people who believed and with their determination, people with the character of josé sócrates, prime minister of portugal, that is why they will go down in history, because they believed, and because they believed, they made it possible, that is why we have the treaty of lisbon. i do not take credit away from the others, who also had it, but if it had not been for his determination, we would not have the lisbon treaty today, if it had not been for his determination, we would not have held the summit with brazil, if it had not been for his determination, we would not have held the summit with africa, that is, only these three examples, and there were many others to mention. in addition, times have changed, the will has changed, the government has changed in poland and we may even have a european day against the death penalty by now. we must therefore congratulate ourselves, and above all, we must thank the president and his entire team, the portuguese diplomats, the minister for foreign affairs, the secretary of state and the entire government, and also the president of the european commission and the commission for all the contributions they have made, because it was a great presidency and i am very proud of it. thank you, thank you.
in writing. in this debate on the portuguese presidency, the president of the council of the european union gave special emphasis to the treaty which takes up the essence of the european constitution and to which the name of lisbon is attached. unfortunately, for the workers and peoples of the european union, this has not been a good presidency. it is not enough to know that they are seeking to consolidate the neoliberal path, with even freer competition, for economic and financial groups to impose their conditions and prosper on the ruins of micro and smes and the privatisation of public services, to press their reading of flexicurity as a real weapon of exploitation of those who work, continuing an increasingly neoliberal practical application of the lisbon strategy. as the debate has shown, the european powers will try to consolidate and deepen their power by seeking to undermine the right of the peoples of each country to express their opinion on the treaty by means of a referendum, after a democratic debate on the content of the text they are going to sign. the propaganda campaign is being prepared by the powers and the power elites who in the various countries support right-wing policies, trying to avoid referendums, with the exception of ireland, where it is mandatory.
