madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am honoured to be the first romanian parliamentarian to speak in the european parliament's plenary, and i take this opportunity to thank the european institutions for the support they have given my country on its path to the european union. we particularly appreciate that your programme sets out priorities for the new member states. the programme of practical assistance in the use of structural funds for research and development responds to our desire to use these funds effectively for a faster integration process. neighbourhood policy is a highly important subject which will benefit the european union and its neighbours. we want to be involved in the projects that will take place in the western balkans and the black sea area, including moldova. the 'energy' file is a challenge that can only be overcome if it is tackled by all member states together. we also support a solution to the constitutional treaty, because, as you said, europe can only succeed if it is united. madam chancellor, we want to help you complete this extremely complex program, and we wish you and us success together.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner and the president-in-office for being present at this very important debate. we have heard that maintaining good cooperation with the us was crucial in our fight against terrorism. i do not deny that. i even believe that the transatlantic relationship must be reinforced because terrorism is a global phenomenon. we must join forces to fight it efficiently by exchanging information and providing our law enforcement agencies with the necessary means. our citizens have the right to live in a safe and secure place. however, the swift case is showing us again the drifts arising if we do not ensure strict safeguards when exchanging information. there is a correct balance to be struck between freedom and security, and in this case, security has once again prevailed. you cannot combat terrorism by giving up the very rights that terrorism seeks to destroy. our high standards must not be lowered under pressure from any third country, even from our closest partners. it is even more important that many of the new member states have a long history of dictatorship and mass surveillance of their population. unfortunately, in some of these countries, there is a perception that the illicit practices of the past are still carried on. that is why europe must remain the defender of fundamental rights, and that includes the right to privacy. on the one hand we need a framework decision on data protection in the third pillar to ensure high standards in police and judicial cooperation. we have been waiting for it for too long now. on the other hand, we must also remain vigilant and ensure that the existing instruments are properly enforced in our own countries. we must prosecute those who infringe our basic rights to privacy. we need to reassure our citizens that we want to maintain high standards in europe.
i would like to congratulate mrs. vlasarova on her report. to become the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy, it is imperative that education and access to knowledge are given priority in the european union. in the european union, low-income families live in poorer areas, often far from work or education, deepening social polarization and inequalities between individuals. member states must mobilise to combat school drop-out and raise the level of training of young people. for more women to be in employment, access to lifelong learning and the availability of services and infrastructure to reconcile work and family life are needed, especially for single-parent families. in romania, the newest member of the european union, 55% of higher education graduates are women, 48% of employees are women, and 38% of companies are run by women. as regards the roma, there are classes for roma children in romania, who learn romani from kindergarten to vocational education. there are also conditions for the education of children with special needs from preschool. 2007 is the year of equal opportunities and education is the key to the future of the european union. the structural funds should support lifelong learning and the use of new technologies to combat social exclusion. once again, congratulations to the reporter. thank you, sir.
i would like to support the report by our colleague lutz goepel which recommends that we reject the commission's proposal for the optional modulation of direct payments from agriculture for at least two reasons: firstly, the proposal is hampering states that are in the process of phasing in european subsidies. romanian farmers, for example, currently receive only a quarter of the payments received by farmers in the old member states, and are set to reach the common union level in ten years. the compulsory modulation, combined with the optional one, will make this common union level quite low when romanian farmers will be able to benefit from it. this moving target may destabilize both the romanian and european markets, as farmers cannot plan even for the short term, not knowing their future income. moreover, the term 'optional' is misleading. once adopted by the member states, modulation becomes mandatory for farmers and may lead to a reduction of direct payments per hectare of up to 25%. this process contributes to the renationalisation of the common agricultural policy, that is to say, to a change in this policy, a symbol of european solidarity. secondly, the commission's proposal is unfair, because it ignores our participation in the debate on the financial future of the union. parliament's voice must be heard convincingly, both before and during the health check planned for 2008-09. we cannot start on this road with conclusions already drawn, and the introduction of optional modulation leads precisely to a result known before the health check. moreover, as far as i know, the commission has not carried out the necessary impact assessment provided for in the interinstitutional agreement with the european parliament. all these elements make the commission's proposal for a regulation an unwelcome compromise, the victims of which will be european farmers.
there have been opinions so far that this report tends to present negative views of the united states or the intelligence community. because most of the statements are based on assumptions rather than on clear facts or evidence, i consider this to be a report which ultimately expresses positions which are detrimental to the member states and by implication to the european union as a whole. one of the european union's basic principles is the protection of human rights. it is true that president bush has stated that there were flights that carried people and that there were detention centers, but he has not made any clear statement as to the location of these activities. it seems to me a little extreme to try to accuse ourselves without any evidence to the contrary. the defence of human rights is an obligation of all member states. but the same obligation exists with regard to ensuring the security of the citizen. it is normal to make inquiries when there are suspicions in this regard, as romania has done, but i do not think it is normal to consider that these inquiries were superficial if it did not necessarily reach a certain conclusion desired by someone. i think we need to respect each other as democracies and as parliamentary institutions. i think it is incorrect to talk about romania in the secret detention facilities sub-chapter, since there is no evidence to this effect, thus suggesting an alleged violation of human rights, while other countries, in accordance with article 150 of the report, are mentioned in the extraordinary rendition chapter. i think it's evidence of an inconsistent approach. the report has a large number of inaccuracies. the amendments by the ppe/de group only partially correct them, but change the political message to one of constructive, eliminating unfounded accusations and preventing similar cases in the future.
mr president, since 2001 the balance between preserving the fundamental values and the need for security has undergone profound modifications. i see this report as an opportunity for the member states to take a good look at themselves and recognise that it is a fact that fighting terrorism has often justified the adoption of many intrusive laws. it is now urgent to undertake an evaluation of all anti-terrorist legislation. it is time to ensure judicial control mechanisms and strict parliamentary scrutiny of security services in all member states. in romania, where new legislation on secret services is being adopted, it is advisable to look at this package of legislation from this particular angle. new bodies that centralise intelligence are being created for better coordination of secret services. we have to be careful and place these central bodies under enhanced parliamentary control. this report is crucial because it highlights the increasing prevalence of the mantra ‘security at all costs’. it depends on us to focus more on civil rights and earn the confidence of our people.
mr president, the main merit of the fava report is that it puts in a clear light our values and our weaknesses. its main message is that we should never seek more security at the expense of human rights. moreover, there is no contradiction between defending security and defending human rights. we could, indeed, consolidate our security only if we respect our basic values. the terrorists want to undermine our values and make us abandon our way of life. we can defeat them precisely by defending our values and by refusing to abandon them. it was not possible to prove beyond any doubt that certain violations of human rights took place in specific countries and with the cooperation of specific governments or of specific officials. however, it is beyond any doubt that unacceptable acts could have happened without being noticed by the national institutions concerned, without shaking the public conscience or without being resisted by the european union member states, since they apparently lack the capacity to oppose. thus the report led us to the conclusion that we need better cooperation in the field of intelligence, as well as in the field of direct action against terrorists, in order to increase our strength in coping with security challenges, without decreasing our capacity to respect and promote human rights. we need a better joint educational effort in order to raise the general respect for human rights and to encourage political leaders to look for a better equilibrium between values and realpolitik. we need more political solidarity among the member states in order to make them less vulnerable to the pressures of those political players who believe in the power of force. we need a common foreign and security policy that will allow us, at the same time, to deter the terrorists and promote our values in the world. we need a transnational democracy that is able to strike a balance between effective security services and popular oversight of their activities. to sum up, we need more europe.
on behalf of the its group. i appreciate the report of professor cristobal montoro romero as a remarkable one, showing high professionalism, equidistance and determination in analysis and presentation. in the same vein, i consider the report on the activities of the european investment bank in 2005, which i appreciate as a report that leaves you feeling good after reading it. it is remarkable that the authors have endeavoured and succeeded in presenting in a clear manner both the work carried out during the reference period and the forward-looking programmes designed to respond to the major challenges facing the european union and beyond. in the absence of time, i shall confine myself to a few remarks on one of these programmes, namely the one concerning the promotion of economic and social cohesion within the european union, particularly in less developed areas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the less developed regions of the european union, including romania, and i would have expected the programme to include more concrete measures and possibly a system of facilities such as grace periods, interest rate incentives and other measures to enable the countries in these areas to recover more quickly from the gaps in order to speed up the process of integration into the european union. recently, one of the leading members of the european investment bank's management paid a visit to romania where he was received at all decision-making levels. i hope that after this visit the range of programmes which the institution which is running it will develop in romania will include others which, together with the programme on economic and social cohesion, will contribute in a much more consistent manner to the finalisation of the process of full implementation of the laws of the free market economy and competition specific to the countries of the european union.
my intervention concerns a terrible situation that occurred in february in the area east of the dniester, which is also a border area of the european union. in february, terrorist gangs from the area completely destroyed a cemetery near the moldovan town of tighina, where 365 romanian, german, and swedish soldiers and officers from world wars i and ii were buried. the cemetery was organized by the queen maria of romania foundation in 1926. the crosses were thrown in the garbage, the bones were mixed with the earth. the area has been leveled and a platform built on which a monument to the liberating soviet soldier will rise. this is an act of vandalism worthy of stalinist practices, committed in an area extremely disturbed by the perpetuation of endless acts of terrorism in the west of the dniester, in the area of the republic of moldova, the shelter of the russian armies located in transnistria. it is clear that the security of the european union in the east is threatened and a firm position is required. i call on all my colleagues in the european parliament to sign the declaration i have prepared so that a firm decision can be taken on this matter.
i shall not repeat here all that has been said, very correctly, about the position of social services in the general interest. i'd just like to make a few quick remarks. firstly, social solidarity and social cohesion are the hallmark of the european union. second, social services are, by definition, based on non-discriminatory access, sustainability of service and protection of the vulnerable. thirdly, it is the responsibility of the european institutions today to find the most immediate and appropriate solution to these problems. i personally think that we need a framework directive that the commission can present to the institutions of the european union and, above all, to the european parliament so that the principles in this area are well systematised. however, it remains for each member state to define, organise and finance social services of general interest. we must once again establish that social missions take precedence over the rules of market competition. i would like to end by saying a few words that a great frenchman, a great european avant la lettre, said, and i will say them in french. it's about emile's father and the father of the social contract, jean jacques rousseau. he said very reasonably that: the social order does not come from nature, it is founded on conventions. we need conventions.
the mobility and free movement of goods and people are indispensable to the development of the european union. every day, 25 000 aircraft operate at european airports and 30% of global air transport is carried by european operators. the figures published today on the commission's website show that the number of passengers in the first 11 months of 2006 amounts to 318 million. the opening of the market and competition in air transport have allowed the emergence of low-cost airlines and the development of regional airports. in the fourth quarter of 2006 alone, low-cost carriers operated 201 new routes, generating 1800 flights per week. therefore, increasing passenger safety and security of air transport by imposing common security rules for all air transport operators is a priority. the european aviation safety agency will supervise the national authorities responsible for pilot training and testing. however, in the context of air transport security and passenger safety, the certification and medical testing of aircrew is also required. the european aviation safety agency will require third country aircraft and crews operating in community airspace to comply with common aviation safety rules through ex ante checks. given the importance of air safety and passenger safety, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
mr president, energy security and coping with climate change are the two most dramatic challenges of our time. by addressing these topics in a bold and comprehensive way, the european council recognised that global challenges require global answers; that cross-border threats require cross-border action. these are issues which concern ordinary people and by addressing them the council sends out the message that the european union is responsive to european citizens’ expectations, thus motivating their loyalty towards the european institutions. however, this is only the tip of the iceberg. a common energy market requires the communitarisation of energy policy, which should include, or be associated with, a joint effort for technological development, as well as coordinated investment, employment and growth policies. the political will expressed this spring will be neither sustainable nor effective without a european legal basis. a common policy also requires a special budget, and one has to secure the means to finance that budget, possibly by taxing certain energy transactions and by creating european union financial own-resources. the shaping of the european union’s enlargement, neighbourhood and development strategies should follow the measure and the manner in which our foreign partners – neighbours or not – cooperate in the promotion of european energy and environmental strategies. on the other hand, the bilateral agreements between the european union member states and third states in the field of energy should be conceived in such a way as to work in favour of the enhancement of our common energy strategy. this spring, the european council has proven that there is a light at the end of the tunnel. the berlin summit has yet to prove that there is a tunnel leading to that light.
first of all, let me join all my colleagues in congratulating mrs doris pack on her work on this report and, why not, on the opportunity to have a discussion on bosnia-herzegovina in the european parliament's plenary. here we are, four months after the elections, bosnia and herzegovina has succeeded in installing a new government. the cabinet led by prime minister nikola špirić set out to sign the association and stabilisation agreement and complete the constitutional reform in the first half of 2007. the council of ministers has thus adopted an agenda of important reforms, and we hope that it will soon produce tangible results. bosnia and herzegovina must gradually assume full responsibility for its internal policy. unfortunately, ethnic nationalism is still strong and therefore extending the mandate of the office of the high representative for another year is a correct and reality-reflecting option. the european union must pay particular attention to the way in which the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina implement the reforms undertaken. the completion of constitutional reform, the end of educational segregation, the creation of a common economic area, the restructuring of the police and full cooperation with the international tribunal are objectives which cannot be achieved today without a strong european presence. we must highlight one of the challenges that bosnia-herzegovina will have to face in the coming period: the final decision on the status of the province of kosovo will be a test of the soundness of its political construction. the situation in bosnia and herzegovina, like that in kosovo, cannot be viewed in isolation but only in the regional context. that is why our efforts must continue to strengthen the stability of the region. in conclusion, bosnia and herzegovina is on the european path and our support is absolutely necessary for the economic and social development and political stability of the country.
in my speech, i would like to stress once again the importance of the european parliament in supporting local communities and ensuring that their role is asserted in the context of the achievement of the millennium development goals. the european parliament, which finds its legitimacy in the direct, secret and freely expressed vote of european citizens, must be the forum that most faithfully expresses their expectations and needs. it is indeed the commission's role to manage development issues at the macro-european level. but this development cannot be achieved by ignoring the problems, experiences and traditions at the micro level, at the local community level. it is our role as parliament to consider the commission's adjustment of its policies and programmes in the light of the above. the development of europe is a puzzle of developments specific to each local authority. ignoring these communities is to initiate a process of artificial development that will never correspond to local realities. in addition, ignoring sensitive aspects of a particular cultural heritage, a specific traditional strand, will lead to the rejection by local communities of development solutions proposed at european level. all local communities are encouraged to consider the availability of human and material resources for the implementation of the millennium development goals. in conclusion, let me say that it is the role and duty of the european parliament to see to the creation and completion of a european construction which makes use of local experience and the acquis.
madam president, whenever we find a just, feasible and sustainable solution to overcome a crisis, we want it to become a precedent. the mere fact that we do not want our solution for kosovo to become a precedent this time is the recognition that this solution is unfortunate, or at least imprudent. and it is wishful thinking to believe that nobody will use it as a precedent. therefore we must find ways to mitigate the subsequent risks. in this respect, four suggestions could be considered. one: to accept and state that the solution for kosovo is based on and should be consistent with the principle of regional security. two: to agree that kosovo might become independent only within the european union after meeting the membership criteria. three: to offer immediately to serbia a clear european union accession action plan, free from any prerequisite conditions. and four: to convene an international conference on the western balkans in order to integrate the solution for kosovo into a region package deal. without an approach which looks beyond the borders of kosovo and beyond the present time, the effects of this plan might blow up in our faces.
on behalf of the its group. the lamassoure report, presented with great excellence by mr böge, is a logical continuation of previous work in this particularly attractive area of reforming the european union's own resources system. the approach is, at least in theory, particularly interesting, because, taking as a basis the reality of the shortcomings of the current system of financing the budget of the european union, it presents a very courageous proposal to reform it. i have confined my assessment to theoretical considerations because i consider that, in the present state of economic development of the member states, the adoption of a system of financing based entirely on fiscal sources does not seem to me to be entirely realistic. without denying the need for reform, i would consider a more pragmatic approach to this action to be a progressive approach, based on maintaining the traditional resource, which is decreasing over time, and which is being doubled by increasingly important fiscal resources. i would also point out that the proposal to extend the principle of additionality to policies whose implementation involves substantial resources from the community budget is strongly unfavourable to less developed member states, such as romania, because it automatically involves co-financing from the national budget to the detriment of the financing of their own programmes. finally, of the many comments i have on the amendment of the system of own resources proposed by the authors for the second stage of the reform, i will dwell on only two: the one on the possible choice of vat as the own resource of the union budget, an action which i consider complicated, even in the context of the inclusion in the documents of the quota of shares for the community budget, and also the one on income tax, due to the fact that there is no necessary legislative harmonisation in this area, each member state currently having its own rules, which means that this resource is, at least for the time being, not to be taken into account.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate mr lamassoure on his work, even if he is not present, and especially on his constant dialogue with the national parliaments. i am very pleased that this report has included their ideas, as well as those expressed in the committee on budgets by the european parliamentarians from the new member states. first, we must recognize the shortcomings of the current system of budgetary resources, which was originally intended to be a transitional one. it's an opaque, complex system, difficult to explain to the citizens of the union, where each state has its own british rebate and its own exception. perhaps the biggest drawback is that only 15% of the budgetary resources are genuinely european. this is an unacceptable situation. a transitional period is necessary; the elimination, in the first phase, of the calculated vat resource and its replacement by national contributions is a step forward. this reduces the current complexity and makes it easier to move to the second phase, the genuine european resources. in the second stage, from romania's point of view, it is preferable to choose a simple tax, which does not increase the tax burden on european citizens, or allows some member states to benefit from unfair compensation.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, commissioner, i appreciate mr tabajdi's report, although it does not cover any aspect of a newer country, such as romania. it is a report which is a lesson for the new member states and i would like to stress something which interests us very much, namely that the common agricultural policy should be more flexible in terms of the specificities and characteristics of these two new member states, romania and bulgaria. romania has a tradition in agriculture, but also communist legacies that make it have a big gap to european agriculture. i therefore believe that if this european common agricultural policy focused more on romania's specific features, we could eliminate these gaps more quickly. i suggest to the commissioner and to the author of this report, whom i congratulate once again, that they turn to three proposals i would like to make: firstly, that more attention be paid to farmers' and employers' organisations in agriculture, because in these new member states they are still in their infancy. secondly, and very importantly, attention should be paid to the prevention of risks in agriculture, risks which are lately major from the point of view of climate, natural disasters and even market dysfunctions. and thirdly, an important thing is to support rural development projects, especially in border areas, because we have to learn from countries that have a longer tradition of cooperation than we do.
on behalf of the its group. the european union has completed an important stage in its development, increasing its influence at international level, which requires a rethinking of its institutional organisation, allowing the development of the member states in a world in the process of globalization. the emergence and intensification of issues such as energy and the environment in the internal life of the european union require a rethinking of strategies to strengthen its role as a superpower in promoting the interests of the citizens of the member states. a strong and influential european union at international level implies, on the one hand, rethinking the means and methods of obtaining the necessary information, ensuring the security of the citizens of the member states and, on the other, protecting their interests. today, asymmetric threats are no longer targeted at a single country, target or social category, but have become global, aiming at the destruction of democratic institutions and values as a whole. terrorism, trafficking in persons and arms, and narcotics and substances of mass destruction require collective responses to enable the early identification of threats to member states. i appreciate, mr president, the opportunity to launch some discussion on how to scale up the interoperability between national intelligence services, possibly in an intelligence community structure with a strong preventive component, which would lead to an increase in joint action capabilities to deal effectively with the magnitude and complexity of asymmetric threats. the establishment of this information structure would, i believe, result in considerable savings in human and material resources, which could be redirected to other sectors lacking in resources.
mr president, high representative, i have four telegraphic thoughts to express in one minute. number one: it is high time to replace the new conservativism in international affairs with realism, and to replace the extreme ideological approach which we have heard here today with pragmatism guided by our principles and values. number two: multilateralism is a key endeavour and we should not fail in this endeavour. number three: the many frozen crises in our eastern neighbourhood are only part of a single coherent problem which is the post-soviet status of russia. we must at last build a vision in this respect. number four: the european union is not a defensive alliance, but we must create the political environment which could engage russia and the united states in promoting a global partnership for defence against the contemporary threats, thus rejecting any bilateral anti-missile arrangements which will divide us and expose us more than defend us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the high representative for his comprehensive briefing on the common foreign policy perspective in 2007. without a doubt, one of our priorities is to stimulate the creation of an area of stability, security and democracy in the european union's neighbourhood. as regards the eastern border, the challenges are primarily related to the management of frozen conflicts. in addition to existing efforts, regional cooperation instruments, including cooperation with and within the black sea area, need to be developed and implemented as early as 2007. the success of the common foreign policy depends first and foremost on our success in securing our external border and the neighbourhood, and our more active involvement in 2007 is not only a priority but also an obligation.
the great napoleon said: "if it is possible, it is done, and if it is impossible, it will be done anyway". i'm a nationalist and i'm more interested in serbia than politics. kosovo is the heart of the nation and can only be torn from serbia's bosom with unimaginable risks. french philosopher régis debray spoke first, having witnessed the tragedy of serbia at the time of the attack by the forces that were against it. europe cannot risk instability in the balkans. monsieur athisaari is not telling us the truth. after world war ii, kosovo was 15% albanian and 85% (majority) serb. the albanians came from across the mountains from albania. thaçi and his maoists, raised by enver hoxha and mehmet shehu, use the doctrine of divide and conquer. it's paradoxical, because they want to establish an albania composed of pieces torn from the territory of serbia, macedonia and greece. americans who learn geography by making wars know better where america is, but they don't know where kosovo is. fortunately, the past doesn't want to go away.
since 1 january 2007, romania has acquired the status of an external border of the european union, in addition to that of an external border of nato. it is an important geopolitical position, as well as a challenge and a responsibility that offers romania the opportunity to play an active role in the process of regional stabilisation. one of romania's main foreign policy objectives is to create an area of stability, security, prosperity and democracy in the black sea region. connecting this geographical area to european and euro-atlantic structures is a way of preventing and combating new risks and threats to regional security. however, it is true that time is needed to achieve this very important objective of the european union's neighbourhood policy and, at the same time, of romania's, and when i say time, i mean that when we analyse the euro-atlantic community's relations with the black sea area, we are in fact subjecting to research a deep and complex process, a process which at the moment is based on principles or rules of conduct more or less shared by some individual actors. for these reasons, i believe that this process requires communication, determination, action and efficiency on the part of all actors at all levels.
millions of european citizens are affected by an unfair tax that is not in the european spirit. under the pretext of protecting the environment or protecting jobs, some european union governments have imposed a discriminatory first-time registration tax on imports of used cars. the commission and the european court of justice have repeatedly held that these charges infringe article 90 of the treaty. after being declared incompatible with community law, the levies had to be reimbursed to the citizens. but two things are problematic: a small number of people can afford to sue the state (in hungary only 3% of losers went to court) and, second, the state returns the money without paying interest and penalties. although the infringement procedure was triggered by the commission with a letter of formal notice, romania's new government decided to side with its political friends in the automotive industry and ignore this warning, as it does the chorus of romanian citizens outraged by the limitation of their options to buy from the european market. the romanian government ignores the commission's warnings and risks a lawsuit before the european court of justice. ladies and gentlemen, these situations are abnormal and the european parliament must send a strong message to these governments that the government must implement the obligations it has assumed in the accession process.
i would like to congratulate mr gauzès on his report. the financial services directive in the common market complements the banking sector's initiative to establish the single area for payments in euro by harmonising the legislation of the member states. although 96% of payments in the european union are national and only 4% of payments are made between financial service providers in different member states, the proposed directive will encourage competition, reduce costs, ensure greater transparency on the conditions and tariffs applicable and better protect users and providers by defining their rights and obligations. electronic payment systems ensure a short processing time and facilitate transactions between financial service providers in different member states, but their implementation requires significant investments. citizens' mobility requires electronic means of payment. electronic payment systems have developed in recent years and, in this context, the security of electronic payments is crucial for the trust of users of these services. i believe that for the protection of consumers and their confidence in financial services, it is important that there are very clearly defined authorisation and operating conditions for payment institutions. i congratulate the rapporteur once again.
on behalf of the its group. from the outset, i would like to underline the usefulness of this report and congratulate the rapporteur on the very interesting work he has done. i believe that, with the european union having grown from 15 to 27 countries in just three years, the question of the implications of enlargement is becoming increasingly important, interesting and financially pressing. it is obvious that any extension costs, it is obvious that any extension costs more and, from this point of view, i think that the report we are discussing today is interesting not only to explain what has happened but also to be able to prevent certain difficulties in the future. that is why i believe that this report should be supported, it should be extended and it should continue to be in our attention because in the course of future discussions we may have different views not only on croatia but also on turkey. i think that at this level, however, we should highlight some elements that i consider essential in terms of what will happen in the future with the countries that the previous speakers mentioned, which i represent in a way, as a member of the romanian parliament. firstly, i believe that any enlargement must be preceded by a very careful analysis of the union's budgetary and financial possibilities, combined with the country's own collateral funds. only after such an analysis should the act of accession be finalised. secondly, i believe that a review of the union's financial framework should be carried out as soon as possible, firstly by analysing the way in which the main funds are used, and i am referring here to the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund. thirdly, i think we need to define our own budgetary sources. fourthly, a very important thing in my view is to monitor more closely how the funds are used and to apply a stricter sanctions regime in cases of non-transparent or corrupt use of funds. this situation is still very much present in many countries and is causing considerable damage to the financial situation of enlargement.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all, let me start by thanking mr graefe zu baringdorf, and of course the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, for their thorough analysis of the current proposal and the whole preparation of this report. let me briefly introduce the objectives of the proposal and its context. the accession of bulgaria and romania has enhanced the importance of the sugar refining industry within the whole community. given their rather marginal production of beet sugar, both member states have traditionally met their domestic sugar demand by refining imported raw cane sugar. as a result of the accession negotiations, it was agreed that the two member states could import altogether 530 000 tonnes of raw cane sugar for refining domestically. however, even if their agreed beet sugar quota is taken into account, both member states are expected to remain slightly net importers as their combined consumption would reach between 800 000 and 900 000 tonnes. thus, the opening of the proposal tariff quota would not negatively affect the overall balance within the community sugar market. for the sugar industries in the two member states, the accession to the european union came at a very difficult moment, given that it was during the first year of the sugar reform. therefore it was necessary to adapt certain measures that would facilitate smooth integration into the new common market organisation for sugar. as regards that objective, the council agreed that the approved quantities of raw sugar imports would be reserved for these two member states until the end of the marketing year 2008-2009. as from the 2009-2010 marketing year, the overall traditional supply need for refining which is fixed at the european level of 2.3 million tonnes, would cease to be distributed among member states. this would of course enhance the competitiveness of the european sugar industry, but it is also expected to be of benefit to our suppliers of raw sugar. so the opening of the tariff quotas which is currently proposed to supply the refining industries of romania and bulgaria would be, as requested in your report, limited to the two years. in your amendment, you propose that from the production year 2009-2010, no tariff quotas should be allocated, rather than those that are allocated under the epa and acp countries’ initiative. unfortunately i am not in a position to be able to support that amendment for different reasons. firstly, the draft regulation only concerns the marketing years up to and including the marketing year 2008-2009. secondly, in order to respect its international commitments, the community is obliged to undertake discussions with the traditional trading partners of bulgaria and romania. finally, the european union may not unilaterally modify, especially not completely withdraw, the preferential market access agreed for the countries of the western balkans or the tariff-rated quotas that have been opened.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. when the european union voted on the sugar reform document in november 2005, romania and bulgaria were not yet members of the eu. the zu baringdorf report is a technical report and concerns the possibility of importing raw sugar from third countries in the 2006/2007, 2007/2008 and 2008/2009 agricultural years and of processing it. import of raw sugar is traditional in these two countries, especially from brazil and cuba. the report sets both the quantities and the price of imported raw sugar in order to avoid any unfair competition in this sector. the only amendment to this report states that after three years these preferential arrangements should no longer apply. both the report and the amendment were voted unanimously in the committee on agriculture. in the parenthesis, i would like to add that, as far as romania is concerned, of course, the cultivation of sugar beet and the quotas approved by the commission could possibly be re-examined in order to make full use of the existing tradition for these crops in certain areas of romania.
on behalf of the its group. the proposal for a council regulation on the opening of tariff quotas for imports of raw cane sugar is welcomed by the romanian government, which considers that both the quota concerned and the price per tonne are in line with the interests of the romanian sugar industry. recent studies carried out by romania have shown that both processing needs and market demand can be covered by importing 329 636 000 tonnes of raw sugar for the 2007/2008 and 2008/2009 marketing years. it is also considered reasonable to increase or decrease the price of eur 98 per tonne by 0,14% depending on the degree of polarization of raw sugar imported from third markets. that is why we support the proposal in the report. however, i would point out that in some cases refineries have difficulty in issuing import licences due to differences in the interpretation of the legislation between the romanian rules and those contained in article 17 of council regulation (ec) no 0318/2006. i also inform you that the romanian ministry of agriculture and rural development has now initiated a simplification of these rules to facilitate the issuing of import licences.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on the work they have done and, in particular, the european commission on the importance it has attached to shipping. today, 39% of all internal freight transport and 90% of all trade between the european union and third countries takes place by sea. by 2020, it is estimated that 55% of freight transport in the european union will be carried by sea. in addition, 25% of the international maritime fleet is under the flag of a member state and 40% of the seagoing vessels are owned by community shipowners. with the accession of romania and bulgaria, the european union has acquired the eastern border of the black sea. the european union thus has maritime borders to the north, west, south and east. the development of shipping is a priority of european transport policy because it is less polluting and cheaper. the european transport network, the marco polo programme and the naiades programme will enable the development of shipping and ensure the transfer of goods from the shipping system to the road, rail and vice versa. unfortunately, there are also accidents at sea and the enormous damage they cause. the third maritime package will therefore contribute to the adoption of common european rules to ensure improved maritime safety. measures such as traffic monitoring and equipping ships with automatic identification systems that can determine the position, speed and direction of a seagoing vessel will save more lives and reduce the damage caused by maritime accidents. maritime accidents must be investigated by independent bodies and in these investigations a clear distinction must be made between criminal intent and technical incidents. the inspection of ships entering european seaports will require shipowners and member states to take measures to ensure that ships flying their flag meet the maritime security requirements of the international conventions in force. it is important that member states' flags are not on the international maritime organisation's blacklist. although maritime transport is a low-passenger transport, it is important that the responsibilities of carriers, the compensation they must pay to persons in the event of an accident, and the knowledge and respect of passengers' rights are clearly defined. the development of maritime transport must be done with respect for the environment and, in this context, maritime safety is essential. i believe, however, that to increase maritime safety, working conditions in this sector must also be improved. given that there are approximately 3 000 000 employees in the european union, i look forward to future initiatives by the european commission in this area. i congratulate the rapporteurs once again on their work.
i congratulate the rapporteur on her work. i would start by saying that romania and bulgaria, as member states, respect the acquis communautaire. they are also subject to the regulations in force. the multilateral agreement establishing the european common aviation area is part of the european union's neighbourhood policy and the process of extending the internal transport market to neighbouring states. the balkan states are important for the european union. it is important for this to be achieved by the signatory states respecting european standards and regulations on aviation safety and security, passenger rights, competition, procurement and state aid. the implementation of the agreement will be phased in, according to the protocol with each signatory state, with full application of the agreement to be achieved after its ratification by all signatory parties. until then, existing bilateral agreements on airspace access and frequencies used will apply. given the importance of the european common aviation area for the community's transport policy, it is important that the signatory states receive from the european commission the technical, legal and procedural support necessary for its implementation. i congratulate the rapporteur once again on her work.
mr president, i come from that part of europe where america was, and still is, seen as a european power. there is no global problem, from the middle east and the balkans to energy and climate change, which could not be solved if the european union and the united states acted together. this should be the main principle on which the transatlantic partnership is built. the democratic concepts and rhetoric of the united states and the european union often differ, but they are simply two dialects of the same language, and this language is rooted in the same basic values. we must build on that, and during the summit must insist that our american friends return to the principle of ‘together when possible, alone when necessary’, and abandon the burgeoning principle of ‘alone when possible, together when necessary’. one of the problems of the transatlantic dialogue is that we do not speak with one voice. a parallel problem is that we do not recognise often enough the existence of differing schools of thought in america. we have to encourage those who want to return to realism and discourage the continuation of neoconservative unilateralism. if we are to succeed in this attempt, we must act to eliminate asymmetries and disparities in terms of research, technological improvement and security spending. finally, we must commend the german presidency’s ambitious ideas on a transatlantic partnership. it is time to work for a transatlantic free trade area that can open the way towards institutionalised transatlantic cooperation. we need more partnership and less rivalry.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am pleased to be taking part today, on behalf of the presidency, in the debate in this house on this year's report on human rights and the situation of human rights in the world. this report, like the reports of previous years, examines critically the european union's human rights policy. we welcome this critical approach, as we believe it contributes to strengthening and improving our joint action to protect human rights. we are all too aware of the daily challenges in this area. the better the dialogue between our institutions works, the sooner we will be able to make our joint action on human rights policy more effective. let me start by making a practical suggestion. i will ask the council working party on international human rights policy of the european union (cohom) to discuss the ep report and to consider in more detail the demands and recommendations relevant to its work. the final version of the report and the comments of the relevant council working party could then be used to continue the debate at a later date. i would therefore like to address only a few recommendations today. the report acknowledges the increased cooperation between the ep and the eu presidencies in the preparation and debate of the european union's annual report on the human rights situation. the fact that the european parliament presents its human rights activities in a separate chapter in the eu annual report is part of the progress in our cooperation. we are interested in continuing this cooperation and dialogue with the european parliament, in particular with the subcommittee on human rights. we are aware that the european parliament makes an important contribution to the protection of human rights, which should be duly recognised in the european union's annual report on the human rights situation. i would like to stress, however, that our cooperation must be carried out within the framework of and in compliance with the legal basis for the common foreign and security policy, and that the role of the european parliament, as mr coveney rightly points out in the explanatory statement of his report, is to review critically the european union's human rights policy. an important aspect of this year's human rights policy concerns the newly created united nations human rights council. the european parliament's report underlines its importance and rightly highlights the potential of this new body to become a valuable forum for the multilateral action of the european union in its efforts to protect human rights. the report regrets that the new human rights council has proved too inefficient to respond adequately to the world's human rights crises. i would like to reply that it is too early to make such a judgment and we must await the outcome of the institutional decision-making process, which is expected at the end of june. the european union will do everything in its power to ensure that the human rights council develops into an efficient but also credible component of the united nations human rights system. one of the main issues dealt with at the last human rights council, the situation in darfur, was the call for the european union and the member states to make their position more explicit so that the human rights council, following the report of its special mission, could respond appropriately to the humanitarian disaster in darfur. i would like to say that the unanimous adoption of the text on darfur by the fourth human rights council must be considered a major success for the eu. i would now like to turn briefly to other important instruments of our eu human rights policy, namely the eu guidelines on the abolition of the death penalty, the fight against torture, the protection of human rights defenders and children in armed conflict, drawn up by the eu with a view to its relations with third countries. the ep's annual report highlights the importance of these eu guidelines and the need for increased implementation. we share this view and also welcome the work done so far by the ep subcommittee on human rights. the german presidency will report in detail at the end of its term on the way in which the various guidelines have been implemented. i would like to stress in particular today the efforts made so far by the presidency on the abolition of the death penalty, which is one of the council's top priorities in european union action in the field of human rights policy. in order to make further progress in this direction, the presidency has drawn up an action plan for 2007, which is being implemented and which aims to bring the abolition of the death penalty to the appropriate level in the united nations. i shall come back to that. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the release of all political prisoners. we welcome this initiative and will take the recommendations of the european parliament very seriously. despite the difficulties inherent in human rights dialogues, we believe that they are a tool not to be underestimated to express our concerns about the human rights situation in a third country and to bring about a change in the situation, albeit sometimes only in the long term. in this context, i can inform you that the presidency welcomes the council's decision to establish a human rights dialogue between the european union and uzbekistan. preparations are under way for the first round of this new human rights dialogue. the next rounds of the eu-china human rights dialogue and the human rights consultations with russia will also take place in the near future, i.e. in early or mid-may in berlin. as regards the consultations with russia, i would like to inform you that european and russian ngos are involved in the consultations, as requested in the ep's annual report. members of the european parliament should be more closely involved in the conduct of the dialogues and consultations, which are called for in the annual report. the council is called upon to ensure that this participation is ensured. let me answer you this: the composition of the eu delegations conducting dialogues with third countries reflects the distribution of competences in the field of the common foreign and security policy. it is therefore not possible to include members of this house in the dialogue. this does not mean that there is no permanent information and exchange of information on developments. madam president, if i may, i would now like to say a few words on the presidency's statement on the suspension of the death penalty. the fight against the death penalty has long been at the heart of the eu's common human rights policy. the first eu guidelines on this subject, adopted by the council in 1998, are devoted to the fight against the death penalty. the continuation of the various measures which the european union has consistently used since 1998 to promote the abolition of the death penalty is also one of the priorities of the german presidency of the council in the field of eu human rights policy. we have not discussed the death penalty since the january mini-conference. i had announced to you that the german presidency would develop a well-thought-out action plan on how we would endeavour to take the fight against the death penalty to the united nations in the first half of 2007. i can tell you today that we have implemented this announcement as planned. based on an analysis by the heads of the permanent representations of all eu partners in geneva and new york, and numerous discussions with representatives of ngos, germany presented an action plan at the end of february 2007 containing concrete measures for a gradual approach to the issue of the death penalty at the united nations. it was adopted by consensus by all eu partners and has been consistently implemented by the presidency since then. as a first step in this action plan, the issue of the death penalty was highlighted at the opening of the 4th session of the human rights council in geneva. the german federal minister steinmeier, in his capacity as president of the eu council, specifically addressed the issue of the death penalty in his speech. several ministers from eu member states, who also attended the opening of the 4th session of the human rights council, urged, as did the presidency, the abolition of the death penalty. in addition, the declaration against the death penalty, which was adopted at the un general assembly in december 2006 at the initiative of the european union and signed by a total of 85 states from all regional groups, was read again in march at the human rights council, with new supporters mentioned. as a second step in the action plan, the presidency launched a global lobbying campaign in april. this is to gather more votes for the declaration against the death penalty of december 2006 and to forge a transregional alliance ready to support a resolution in the united nations. the european union will then carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the results of this lobbying action once this worldwide demarche is completed, probably by the end of may. on this basis, the eu will then decide whether and when the time is ripe for a resolution at the un. i would like to emphasize what i said in january: it would be strategically unwise to reopen the debate in the united nations at this time before the demarcation action is completed. it is unlikely that such a proposal would receive the necessary approval of two thirds of the member states. it could also set a bad precedent. other member states might be encouraged to return to other hot topics outside the regular sessions of the general assembly. first of all, we do not yet know whether we will have the necessary majority of supporters from all the regions for such a resolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so let me emphasize this again: the fight against the death penalty is as important to the council of the european union as it is to the european parliament. we want to see this cruel, inhumane and ineffective punishment abolished as quickly as possible. but this is not an easy fight. goodwill alone is not enough, but we can only approach this objective with a strategic approach. we, the german presidency, are firmly committed to this together with our partners in the council, and we very much hope that we can count on the full support of the european parliament in this.
member of the commission. madam president, i welcome the report by mr coveney on human rights in the world in 2006 and on the eu’s policy on the matter, as well as the resolution before parliament today. i am particularly pleased that the innovative approach of the report has been maintained and that it puts the focus on the scrutiny of action taken by eu institutions in implementing the human rights mandates. i also note with approval the recommendation made to move towards a truly interinstitutional eu annual report that reflects the activities of the council, the commission and parliament in the field of human rights and promoting democracy in the world. this proposal, which i fully endorse, does not in any way imply that parliament will have to forfeit its prerogative to issue its own report on this matter, nor that there is a potential infringement of the division of powers between council, parliament and the commission. rather, the objective of the proposal, which i hope will be followed up under the forthcoming portuguese presidency, is to offer eu citizens and our partners in the world a single comprehensive report that does justice to the full range of actions undertaken by the three institutions, as well as representing the shared values and objectives in this field. the commission welcomes the proposals contained in the report to increase synergies between the three institutions, and to take full advantage of their specific aims as regards promoting human rights. in this regard, i would like to refer specifically to the study of the european inter-university centre, which we support. this study provides a number of practical suggestions that merit our full attention. in the same spirit, the good cooperation between our institutions regarding human rights was certainly reflected when introducing the new democratic scrutiny on geographic and thematic cooperation strategies. the december part-session of the european parliament, when the eu annual report is presented, is a good occasion to further develop our joint commitment to human rights and democracy. i would like to mention two examples from the report presented to us today: the un human rights council and human rights dialogues. paragraph 22 of the report calls for the eu to make more effective use of its leverage in order to promote important issues on the agenda of the un human rights council and to better fine-tune its lobbying and outreach activities. as you know, the commission was initially somewhat sceptical about this council, and felt that even when it was endorsed at the un general assembly in 2005, it was not ambitious enough. doubts remain with respect to this for the following reasons. the composition has hardly improved. in terms of dealing with country situations, fewer are at the centre of attention and a question mark hangs over the future of the mandates of special mechanisms. yet there are positive signs, such as the mission to darfur and the unanimous resolution thereafter. i believe it would be wrong to give up on what is still the most important global human rights forum. on the contrary, we will have to redouble our efforts to make it work better, in the interests of all those peoples whose rights are seriously violated every day. the eu and like-minded partners have to break the cycle of politicisation and reach out more effectively to partner countries among the g27. parliament has closely followed particular developments in the new un body from its inception, notably through programming missions and inviting its current chair to discuss issues of common interest. in view of the mission planned for next june, i would suggest an informal meeting among the three institutions in order to inform you of the assessments of the situation and to offer our full support in the preparation of the mission. paragraph 78 of the report also calls for increased involvement of the european parliament in human rights dialogues with third countries. these dialogues have become an essential tool for us in promoting respect for human rights, although there is, of course, a mixed track record depending on the dialogue partner. it would certainly increase our leverage if we could move our exchanges with these countries to beyond those with people in executive power. while in practice there might be obstacles to allow full european parliament participation in the formal dialogue meetings, parliament-to-parliament dialogues would certainly complement the ongoing efforts. i look forward to parliament’s own-initiative report on this subject for constructive proposals. in any case, i see advantages in an improved information exchange between european union institutions and the preparation, implementation and follow-up of dialogue exercises. let me now turn to the second issue on our agenda. i should like to emphasise how important it is for the european union to continue to promote the universal abolition of the death penalty. it represents a key objective of our human rights policy and i am personally committed to seeing the european union play a lead role in this effort, notably within the united nations. i therefore welcome any initiative to discuss how to achieve a universal moratorium on the death penalty. a un general assembly resolution on this matter would certainly be an important step. however, as we also discussed at this week’s council meeting, we have to plan the timing of such an effort very carefully. a resolution would be effective only if it is endorsed by a clear majority of un member states, and we need to prepare the ground well before submitting such a project. on these and all other issues before us, let us keep in mind our common overarching goal of advancing human rights and democracy, and of working pragmatically side by side to reach it.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i would first like to thank my colleague simon coveney for the constructive conclusions of his report and, in particular, for the recommendations made on the european union's human rights dialogue and consultations with third countries, the subject of a future report for which i have the honour of being the shadow rapporteur. respect for human rights, democratic principles and good governance is at the very heart of the european union. it is our moral obligation to promote these values in the name of peace and development throughout the world. the continuous intensification of our efforts to promote democracy in the european union's neighbourhood must undoubtedly be a priority of the european union's human rights policy. the creation of a genuine democratic space at our external border and the irreversibility of this process is one of the conditions for ensuring stability and sustainable development in neighbouring countries. finally, the promotion of human rights in the european union's neighbourhood must benefit from all the european union's instruments at its disposal. i also welcome the recent efforts to boost these activities through regional cooperation instruments, including through cooperation with and within the black sea area. i hope that the actions proposed in the field of democracy and human rights in the new european commission communication on black sea synergy will be implemented as quickly and effectively as possible.
mr president, the essence of the crisis in ukraine lies in the difference between the views of the political players regarding the check and balance mechanisms and separation of powers. the crisis is fuelled by weaknesses in the interinstitutional equilibrium and how state institutions function. the european union should play its part and assume responsibility, since it did not do much to prevent the democratic deficit or the fragility of democracy which led to this crisis. the good news is that parties now seem to be negotiating and there is a prospect of compromise. we should not take sides. it is wrong to view the ukrainian people as being pro-western or otherwise. i think that we ought to assess them not by their rhetoric but by their deeds, in accordance with our values. at the same time, we should at all costs avoid personal initiatives which could be misleading or be misused. likewise, we must avoid approaching the situation in ukraine with national agendas in mind, and avoid competition within the european union or parliament which would be counterproductive. on the other hand, we should not be indifferent to certain values. as i mentioned, we have particular values which we are entitled to put forward when approaching this crisis. we have to encourage all players to show a spirit of compromise, respect for the rule of law and democracy. we should also ask them to accept the constitutional court’s decisions, even if it is not yet fully functional. we have to encourage them to negotiate a package of constitutional modifications and improvements, preferably to be agreed before the constitutional court issues its decision. parliament’s delegation for relations between the european union and ukraine is in permanent contact with those concerned and is prepared to help. we made it clear that the outcome will be a test of ukraine’s ability to cooperate with the european union and integrate with our structures. we have also stated that one should not sacrifice the rule of law for the sake of a better institutional equilibrium or vice versa. on the other hand, we should look at ourselves. do we have a clear vision of the future status of relations between the european union and ukraine? do we really know what kind of state ukraine should be? did we express our expectations clearly enough? do we have a strategy on how we ought to promote cooperation between ukraine and the european union? do we have a plan on how we could draw ukraine and its euro-sceptics towards us? are we interactive, not just reactive? i am afraid the answer to many of these questions could be ‘no’. if we do not change the approach, i am afraid that the prospects are dubious, to say the least.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and stress the importance of this subject for the economic and social development of the european union. we need a social europe, and that is why i believe that people with disabilities have an important role and a place in the european union. europe will only succeed if we harness the creativity of all its citizens. 2007 is the year of equal opportunities, but unfortunately, although one in four families has a disabled person among its members, we do not see them on the streets, in concert halls or on public transport. and that's why i think we have an obligation to do more for people with disabilities. in this respect, i believe that the use of information and communication technologies will help people with disabilities to integrate into economic and social life. in particular, the role of women is extremely important and delicate and therefore special attention should be paid to this subject. it is important, first and foremost, that women with disabilities can be integrated into the workforce, but at the same time, they can become mothers and be able to take care of their families. it is important to reconcile work and family life, and that is why i believe that the role of women with disabilities is important and that we must protect these citizens in order to integrate them into europe. i congratulate the rapporteur once again and i would like to see that in the review of the internal market which the european commission is going to carry out and also in the future measures we are going to take, we think of people who care for disabled people, women with disabilities, so that we can offer them the best possible conditions.
my intervention is in view of the opening of the bâstroe canal and the problems that this opens up. on may 14, 2007, ukraine opened this waterway, which virtually crosses one of the largest biosphere reserves in europe, the danube delta nature reserve. it is a place that is home to thousands of species of birds, plants, and animals, some of which are rare or endangered. as the impact studies of various intergovernmental and international environmental organizations show, the consequences of the canal are not just individual or bilateral (i am talking about the ecological, economic and cultural damage caused to our country). however, the effects are both european and global, and this is because we are talking about negative ecological consequences, which undermine the principles that define the concept of sustainable development. if we are to see a decrease in the rate of destruction of biodiversity in europe by 2010, it is imperative that economic interests are balanced with the protection of biodiversity. before it is too late, the bâstroe canal issue must be addressed with a view to our responsibility to future generations. in the interaction between man and the environment, nature should not be sacrificed, because some losses are irreversible.
romanian voters on saturday gave president traian basescu an overwhelming confidence of nearly 75%, 1 million more votes than in his 2004 election. the unnatural political alliance that planned and carried out the suspension of the president in parliament is reduced to a popular support of 25%, a small figure for a bloc of five parties. the politics of this pro-resignation alliance was deeply immoral and anti-european, the old communists went shoulder to shoulder with the new liberals, the left organized anti-presidential rallies together with the far-right greater romania party, something inconceivable at the level of the european political families of which they are part, namely the european socialists and identity, tradition and sovereignty. this confrontation has consumed a lot of energy, and the current government has sacrificed the elections for the european parliament to make room for this referendum. the outcome of the romanian referendum, however, sends a very good signal to the european parliament. it is known that president basescu supports the plans of the current german presidency of the european union to revive the debate on the future of europe, stating this repeatedly, including in the european parliament. i have every confidence that mr traian basescu, president nicolas sarkozy, chancellor angela merkel and the other heads of state, together with the european parliament, will find in the next few months a formula for a european basic treaty which will have the support of the european citizens.
on behalf of the its group. i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work, but i also underline and support the rapporteur's remark that it is regrettable that eu citizens draw a parallel between globalisation on the one hand and the decline in european output and job losses on the other. this is also the context of the negative reaction of european citizens to the process of relocating productive enterprises to new member states in order to use cheaper labour. i noticed such a negative reaction during the french presidential election campaign, and it bothered me that romania is presented as a country that would attract these relocations, harming the employment situation in other eu member states. there is even talk of a social dumping policy that romania would practice. i regret to say that the european citizens are not informed enough and i insist that they should be informed not only more widely but also more accurately. in this respect, it should be noted that romania, through its post-accession strategy, does not encourage relocation, as in many cases this leads to major imbalances in terms of environmental protection, the development of energy-intensive industries and the use of low-skilled labour. romania's current interest is the development of modern industrial branches, which raise the competitiveness of the economy, and not the agglomeration on the territory of the country of an amalgam of enterprises, technically and technologically displaced. that is why i believe that relocation is a process that benefits no one within the union and that it is essential to adopt a strategy that will allow globalisation to really contribute to the interests not only of the union but also of the individual member states.
the debate on the report by mr elmar brok on the common european security policy is timely and necessary, just two weeks before europe day on 9 may. i am grateful to the rapporteur for his comprehensive approach to this subject, which is inextricably linked to the present and future of the european union, and for the way in which he has set out the priorities for effective action in today's european and international context. as rapporteur on cooperation with and within the black sea, i first appreciated the fact that strengthening the european union's relationship with the countries of the black sea was a priority for 2007. it is equally important to stress the need to develop the dimension of regional cooperation in the union's external policy. the black sea region undoubtedly has a rich potential for development; however, the countries in the region also face serious challenges in several areas. stability, development and prosperity in the european union's neighbourhood, strengthening the european union's relations with the countries of this region and encouraging intra-regional cooperation are of major importance in this context. bringing together the member states of the european union and its neighbours, the black sea region can and must become an area of cooperation based on european values and principles. but we must move from talk to action, from theoretical to concrete and effective measures, demonstrating the european union's involvement in this region.
in the absence of time, i shall confine myself to a few comments on the effects that the amendment of the directive under consideration would have in romania, comments made by an association of brewers which i share and support. it is considered that the application of such a measure is currently harmful to the romanian beer industry, as it will trigger unfair competition between beer producers and producers of other fermented beverages, due to the fact that the proposed levelling will cause the excise duty on beer to increase, while it will remain unchanged for other fermented beverages. the direct and immediate consequence of this change is the increase in the price of the product, since in romania the purchasing power ratio of gross domestic product per capita indicates that beer is already 200% more expensive than the average price of similar products in europe 15. the price increase will automatically lead to a reduction in production as a consequence of the decrease in consumption, which will also cause a decrease in the number of employees in this sector, with all the social and financial consequences that would result from this process. finally, without exhausting all the consequences of such a decision, it is also noted that the increase in the excise duty on beer could have the opposite effect from that anticipated, leading to a reduction in budget revenue as a result of the fall in sales and the reduction in staff in this sector.
we regret the reduction in the budget for the european transport and energy networks for the period 2007-2013 from eur 20 billion to eur 8 billion, which, although double the budget for the period 2000-2006, represents only 1.3% of the financing requirement of eur 600 billion by 2020. this is why the regulation encourages the use of public-private partnerships and introduces new financing instruments such as loan guarantees, european loans and an interest-rate subsidy fund. the 30 priority transport projects identified in 2004 will receive 20% of european funding, with the exception of crossborder sections, which receive 30% of funding. with the accession of romania and bulgaria, the european union has acquired the black sea neighbourhood and almost the entire danube river is within it. the extension of the trans-european transport and energy network to include the european union's neighbouring countries in the internal transport market is part of the european union's neighbourhood policy and contributes to the achievement of synergy in the black sea. it is important that the new member states receive the necessary support from the european commission to quickly master the procedures necessary to participate in the development of the trans-european transport and energy networks. in this context, the development of bilateral and multilateral partnerships will facilitate...
although the committee on industry, research and energy initially approved a lower ceiling for roaming calls, the agreed solution, which reduces charges for calls made from 49 euro cents to 43 euro cents and for calls received from 24 euro cents to 19 euro cents over three years, will reduce the bills of almost 150 million roaming users by more than 60%, and is a major step forward. reduced roaming charges will also increase usage, especially among the 63% of europeans who, because of the excessive price, limit their phones when travelling abroad. however, in order to do so, particularly in the first months of the regulation's application, it will be essential to inform users. we ask the european commission, together with national regulators, to inform users and, above all, to monitor the market so that the new regulation is respected and european citizens can enjoy the new tariffs, whether they are tourists or business people. i congratulate the rapporteurs and especially the commissioner on the drafting of this regulation.
in writing. the european roaming tariff regulation is a timely one for the romanian citizens i represent in this forum. the main reason is to correct an unjustified price level. according to european commission statistics, mobile phone prices in romania for an average 4-minute call within the european union range from €3.12 to €9.52. on the other hand, the romanian market is a mature one, with one of the highest growth rates in recent years. the communications sector has contributed 9% of gdp since 2005. two of the world's largest operators have been entering the romanian market for many years, which shows the stability and maturity of the market. that is why we are pleased that the proposals to exclude romania and bulgaria from the application of this regulation were rejected by your vote in the committees. we cannot on the one hand open up the markets and on the other restrict the access of romanian consumers to the common market. the european union confirms the confidence of the romanians. in the first year of accession, they are in a position to benefit from a tangible advantage of union membership. freedom of movement is hard-won, freedom of communication without additional barriers must also be secured.
on behalf of the its group. the consequences of poverty, social exclusion, not only at european level but also at global level, are devastating. a decent life in europe will depend on the union's attention to people without work, supported by the promotion of social and foreign policy principles. of course, the dialogue between the institutions needs to be harmonised and the european commission has a vital role to play in the application of the legislation and the responsibilities that are conferred on it. the contribution of international organisations, the documents presented in the preamble by the rapporteur are of great value for an objective assessment of this aspect, but they are not sufficient, because we must also take into account private firms that can provide jobs and can provide the prerequisites for economic growth and, by implication, a better life. the priority of the report debated today in strasbourg will, i hope, also become the priority of national governments, which must put the pieces of this puzzle together and devise strong socioeconomic strategies to create jobs, with strict respect for citizens' fundamental rights and combating violations of the right to work. in this context, i would like to recall the harassment, exploitation and violence in the workplace, which are also mentioned in the report and which we must not allow to go unchallenged. safety and health at work are other topics for attention, as they are essential conditions for ensuring quality work in a modern europe. globalisation, wrong-headed policies, massive business relocation and relocation outside the eu are the main factors affecting the labour market and social relations in the context of the sustainable development strategy. the precariousness of the system must be stopped by encouraging national legislation in this area, reforming the education system in rural areas and providing facilities. i 'm not ...
mr president, i should like to say to the prime minister that the constitutional treaty is not about losing identity but about organising solidarity in a just, effective and sustainable way. those who oppose it on grounds of identity are not in fact afraid of citizens losing control over the state but of the state losing control over citizens. in a world where the market, crime and poverty are globalised, the european union must be political and coherent. we therefore need the double legitimacy of the european union as a union of states and citizens and double majority voting. you will agree that the european union is simply unable to exist without legal personality and is unable to decide whether the single-country veto is its decision-making rule. while accepting that subsidiarity should be an important principle of the union, we should also accept the precedence of european legislation over national legislation. we cannot expect european citizens to be loyal to the european institutions if their fundamental rights are not legally binding. likewise, without a social dimension, the european dream simply will not take off. however, a social europe is not sustainable without a harmonised tax policy and european union funds. ultimately it is not possible to imagine a europe which is economically and socially effective without a common foreign and security policy. by considering this aspect in a positive way you will certainly bridge the wishes of your citizens and the aspirations of other europeans.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the creation of growth and jobs was the commission's priority when it took office. i think we're on a very good track. the general economic situation in europe is not good for a long time, but we have not yet reached the turning point. we need to make this growth sustainable. we therefore need the appropriate framework conditions to enable european companies to continue to improve their competitiveness. a key factor is europe's innovative capacity and the ability to put our excellent research results into practice and commercialise them. we have to compete with higher and better quality. we have to be better than the others. we must set the highest standards for the quality of our products. we must be the technology leader. new technologies, new processes, new products, which give us a head start over others, this is our chance. i would like to give you two recent examples of how innovative ideas can increase the competitiveness of companies. i'm thinking about innovative sensors for airbags, for example. these have transformed airbags from an excellent but priceless idea into a low-cost and ubiquitous safety device worldwide. now, on this basis, 50 million of these sensors are produced each year. they are no longer confined to the automotive industry, but are also found in mobile phones, laptops and dna chips, for example. another success story is the invention of a biodegradable plastic bag. a very small group of scientists have invented this environmentally friendly product and have put the patent on the market. within a few years, it has grown into a successful medium-sized company with a turnover of eur 50 million and 60 patents the trend is increasing. these are just two examples of the hundreds, if not thousands, of innovations that we have in europe every year and that we need to create and sustain jobs. i am very grateful to the european parliament and to the rapporteur, mr gierek, for their support of our innovation strategy. this is particularly true of the areas identified as priorities by the european council in december 2006. these are the areas in which we are making special efforts at the moment. these include our policy of strengthening clusters and the initiative to create and stimulate key markets, under which we will, after consulting interested groups, present a proposal before the end of the year to set up several innovative key markets. we are also increasingly using the broad field of standardisation to support innovation. a communication on this subject is also planned for autumn 2007. it is also about using public funding more effectively to support innovation. we have done this by adapting the guidelines for the use of the structural funds and by adjusting the aid rules so that innovation can be promoted more than before. i think it is particularly important to improve the protection of intellectual property. this is crucial both at european level and in the global context. as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out, there is a problem for smes in the exercise of their intellectual property rights. the commission is working on a strategy to help smes do this. i also want to point out that these rights must be affordable and of high quality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the current state of patent policy is a serious competitive disadvantage for the european economy. i am very grateful to you for the importance you attach to small businesses in particular. in fact, we often find the greatest potential for innovation here. it is important that we make it easier for them to access funding. this is precisely what we are doing more and more with the competitiveness and innovation programme, which is aimed specifically at innovative smes. we also agree that eco-innovation is of paramount importance - a very big issue for the years ahead. eco-innovation and energy efficiency are areas in particular where european innovative solutions can gain ground on the world market, increase our international competitiveness and thus create growth and jobs. i have the impression that there is a broad consensus between parliament, the council and the commission that further improving and promoting innovation is an indispensable condition if we are to keep europe on track for success. we all know what's needed. now it's important that everybody does it.
on behalf of the pse group. in lisbon, the european union set out to become the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy. to encourage research, research framework programmes and tools such as jeremie, which supports the development of small and medium-sized enterprises at regional level, have been developed. these financial instruments should also exist at national level, with the support of the banking system. unfortunately, there are still many regions in the european union that do not invest 3% of their gross domestic product in research and development. but there are also member states that have decided to develop their economies through massive investment in human resources, new technologies and research and innovation. these countries even granted tax breaks to companies that invested in research. however, they must not remain isolated cases and we ask the european commission to facilitate the knowledge of good practice and to recommend to the member states the granting of tax facilities for investments made in research. a knowledge-based economy is based on the knowledge triangle of universities, research centres, science and technology parks and companies, and all of these must be supported. at the same time, the european union must ensure a proper balance between access to information, research results and the protection of intellectual property. to encourage researchers and, in particular, companies to invest more in research and applied research, we must protect their intellectual work. at the same time, the wheel must not be reinvented and the results of the research must be available to those interested. to this end, the high-speed communications networks accessible in schools, universities, technology parks, research institutes and companies must be the minimum existing infrastructure.
on behalf of the its group. the approach taken by mr newton dunn on the recommendation to be addressed to the council by the european parliament on the development of a strategic concept for the fight against organised crime is unique in that it is necessary and useful at a time when organised crime, and in particular financial and economic crime, has acquired new and increasingly sophisticated capabilities. in view of this, the fight against organised crime can no longer be pursued using the traditional instruments, and, as the explanatory memorandum to the report states, a radical change of perspective is needed to enable the increasingly complex internal constraints to be addressed and, at the same time, the difficulties associated with the exponentially increasing external constraints to be overcome. however, i believe that these objectives must be accompanied by the fact that a change of perspective or programme, however judiciously designed, will not produce results unless an environment of stability is ensured which gives the political will necessary for their practical implementation. this will should be channelled primarily towards ensuring the independent and efficient functioning of the state structures designated to carry out control of the way in which activities likely to be the subject of operations falling within the scope of the laws of organised crime are carried out. finally, i believe that a separate chapter in the strategic concept should be devoted to those states, new or old members of the european union, in which political stability is often disturbed by more or less democratic actions, a situation that organised crime structures do not hesitate to take full advantage of. as for me, i will vote for the motion with all conviction.
madam president, we have committed ourselves to creating in europe an area of freedom, security and justice with no internal borders. however, we are often reminded that criminals and terrorists do not recognise borders. they take advantage of the lack of borders and are fully in command of the new means of travel and communications. on the other hand, our law enforcement agencies still have to face enormous administrative burdens that hinder their efficiency. it is now our responsibility to take all the necessary steps to adapt means and methods to the new realities. we must overcome the lack of mutual trust among law enforcement agencies, increase cross-border cooperation, intensify joint training and work together. i believe, however, that the union must pay greater attention to its external borders and its neighbourhood policy. since the recent enlargements, enforcing strong external borders has become a wider challenge. some of the new eu border countries do not have the appropriate resources to tackle the phenomenon of organised crime. corruption must be tackled with as much energy as we bring to the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the eu must recognise the situation and provide additional human resources and financial means, as well as sharing its know-how. we must adopt a comprehensive and specific approach built on transparency and anti-corruption measures. our citizens need a safer world and more security, but this should not be at the expense of our civil liberties. we need more safeguards to ensure the balance of rights in our democracies, which means more parliamentary oversight of security activities and a high level of protection of privacy. this is why, once again, i urge the council to adopt the framework decision on data protection under the third pillar as soon as possible. we have all waited too long.
i would like to support the position of the rapporteur, mr béla glattfelder, and to expose the shortcomings of the commission's proposal from the perspective of a new member state such as romania. first, the elimination of the intervention stock of maize represents a change in the course of the common agricultural policy. after a sustained effort to transpose and adapt european legislation in agriculture, and i remind you that this is a body of laws that totals around 20 thousand pages, romanian farmers have become participants in an unstable policy that betrays their expectations. regardless of the qualities of intervention policy, whether it is a good measure or not, it should not be changed before there is a general discussion between all the institutions of the union and the member states. this discussion is planned to take place in the context of the 2008-2009 european financial health check. nor should and cannot a comprehensive reform of the common agricultural policy be put into practice before 2013. it is certain that the measure proposed by the commission creates retroactive effects. as in hungary and other member states, romanian farmers have already planted their corn crop and it is unfair to them that in the case of surpluses not absorbed by the market they do not benefit from the safety net of intervention stocks. ladies and gentlemen, romania has become the second largest producer in the union after accession, with an estimated share of 17%. the commission has argued that the intervention system is abused by farmers in the union for whom the intervention stock has become an important commercial asset, but this argument is not universally valid, it cannot in any way be said that the planning of romanian farmers would depend on a prior calculation of the sale to intervention. if stocks appear in romania, this will simply be the result of market mechanisms. i also want to emphasize that i support mr glattfelder's report as it stands. the amendments to the proposal for a regulation do not correct the shortcomings of the legislative document, since any limitation imposed after the sowing season, regardless of its size, is unfair to farmers. the institutional aspects must not be overlooked either: the agreement reached in the council does not respect the procedure for consulting parliament which applies to the common agricultural policy.
the europe project has been successful and it is our duty to provide it with the means to function well in the future. for this reason, the project needs a clear, transparent, solid and effective foundation, assumed by consensus, by the political and democratic will and experience of all its members, because our common goal is above individual pride and fears. to be truly solidarity-oriented towards sustainable development, cooperation, enlargement and cohesion, we need strong and effective institutions to guarantee our functioning, we need a common security and defence policy, a common foreign policy. accepting a basic political agreement, even in a restricted form, and continuing the neighbourhood policy will make the european union grow and develop not only for itself but also with all the surrounding states, thus offering them not only promises but also the eloquent example that only together can we truly develop. i therefore welcome the initiative of the rapporteurs and hope that the council in june will take account of the views expressed in this report.
mr president, i am very satisfied with the package of proposals that parliament is going to adopt tomorrow. in recent years we have stepped up efforts at european level to encourage cross-border cooperation in combating terrorism and crime. ensuring effective exchange of information between national police services is essential in a europe without internal borders, but i believe that this should automatically imply a higher level of data protection. this is why i also warmly welcome the adoption of the decision ensuring protection of personal data used for security purposes. undoubtedly, these instruments will be extremely useful, but the prüm episode also demonstrates that we now need a global vision for policymaking in judicial and police cooperation. i believe that it is time to stop piling up new laws. instead, the commission would be inspired to make an evaluation of the existing legislation in this area. this would allow us to eventually start adopting a coherent approach. in that perspective, it is also crucial to adopt the constitution that provides for better decision-making in the justice area as it exclusively gives the commission the right of initiative. in an era when the most exciting hobby seems to be collecting mountains and piles of data, perhaps we should stop for a minute and wonder: is it really used, useful and necessary?
the success of the implementation of the prüm treaty can only be fully achieved when all the states of the european union have committed themselves to its provisions. the effectiveness of cross-border control is decisive in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. but for the time being, the geographical arrangement of the signatory states creates artificial frontiers within the union, which can be considered a step backwards. cross-border cooperation is thus hindered and criminals may find refuge in countries outside the common system of police and judicial databases. the transposition of the clauses on the automatic exchange of data into community law will make it possible to combat crime much more effectively. the two important aspects to ensure the success of the initiative are the funding of the creation of the databases and their protection. the european institutions must therefore identify ways of ensuring harmonisation at european level and at the same time supporting the member states in financing the system. if this is ensured, implementation will be much easier and the results will be positive.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to some measures taken by the romanian government this year aimed at improving the fight against corruption. romania is now the first country in europe to adopt a law that allows monitoring of the wealth of all high-level government and public officials, conflicts of interests and incompatibilities. reforming the judiciary is not an easy task that can be tackled from one day to the next, nor can it be done by one person. such a challenge requires strong political will, determination and collaboration between the government and the parliament. the current government is determined to continue the judiciary reform process in romania by guaranteeing a total independence of the judiciary in full accordance with the commitments made towards our eu partners and most of all towards romanian citizens. i am confident that the commission report on romania to be presented at the end of this month will acknowledge the progress made by the romanian government in the judiciary reform process and in the fight against corruption.
it's only been a few days since the last two members of the ilaşcu group, andrei ivanchuk and tudor petrov-popa, were finally released from prison by the illegitimate authorities of the self-proclaimed transnistrian republic. on july 8, 2004, the european court of human rights ruled that the detention of romanian citizens andrei ivanţoc and tudor petrov-popa was unlawful and asked the authorities of the republic of moldova and the russian federation to take all necessary measures to secure their immediate release. for three years this ruling was ignored confirming, if need be, that the regime in tiraspol remains outside any rules. the release of andrei ivanchuk on sunday, june 3rd, was marked by violence and violation of human rights, of this citizen's right to move freely to his home after 15 years of unlawful detention. i wonder why a man released from prison after serving an abusive sentence cannot go free and is handed over to the police of the republic of moldova. i wonder how it is possible that andrei ivanchuk and tudor petrov-popa are being expelled from their own country by these completely illegitimate authorities. as a member of the european parliament, a member of the eu-moldova delegation, i ask the european parliament to take a stand on what was an unprecedented case in the recent history of european democracy.
mr president, in the light of the forthcoming report on romania that is to be presented on 26 june, i would like to bring to your attention one of the means by which romania intends to fight corruption. on 9 may 2007, the romanian senate adopted a law setting up the national integrity agency. this agency will carry out verification activities in the following areas: wealth, conflicts of interest and incompatibilities. furthermore, the romanian government has modified the law on the establishment of the national integrity agency in order to make it more drastic. the new justice minister supports this project and considers the agency to be an efficient instrument as a result of its investigative power, its civil sanctioning power and the guarantees for its independence. it is obvious from the above that the reform in the judiciary system is being pursued, with the new justice minister, mr chiuariu, being fully committed to making the integrity agency operative within a few months.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, what is an artist? what's his place? marginal or central? famous or unknown artist? always misunderstood, cursed and poor or famous and rich? the crush of the elite or the pariah of consumer society? a dishwasher at the table of the rich or on the revolutionary barricades? a picture of despair or a reflection of happiness? what is an artist? a person who has or shows a taste for the arts, a love of beauty? if that's the case, what's an artist to do in a society that produces ugly things? isolate himself in his ivory tower or walk down the street in the midst of an angry mob? if there is a status of the artist, will it solve his dilemma or plunge him even deeper into defeat? as we look here, under all the seams, the creator, the other, the supreme creator, protects him, saves him and inspires him. we said citizen artist, that's propaganda! we've heard of the artist as a witness to his time, and that's the definition of an art critic. i think he's the seismograph of this company. we can help him by passing laws, but we'll throw him into an artistic bureaucracy. because the things that are new to us today, to the artist, are already experienced, assimilated, consumed.
i would like to start by welcoming the initiative of mrs claire gibault. it is in fact a new effort to raise awareness in the european commission and the member states about the status of artists in europe. i would like to stress some of the ideas outlined in the report which i consider to be extremely important, but also achievable. i am convinced of the need for a euro-pass, a european professional register for artists to record their work. the document would support the mobility specific to this guild. in this respect, we must make a clear distinction between the mobility of artists and that of workers in general. we therefore call on the member states to remove any restrictions on access to the labour market for artists from the new member states. it is also essential that member states mutually recognise diplomas and certificates issued by relevant educational establishments. this would facilitate both student and professional artists' exchanges and the possibility of being employed on the basis of these. we cannot accept the fact that european artists working outside the union cannot transfer their pension and social security rights when they return to their country of origin for purely bureaucratic reasons and we therefore call for an initiative in this respect as well. i am convinced that by taking these measures we will be contributing directly at community level to the development of european culture without infringing the principle of subsidiarity which governs this area. i do not think there is a better way of getting to know and getting closer to european citizens than the artistic act, or culture as such.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr itälä on this report on our institution's 2008 budget. parliament today takes decisions that affect almost 500 million citizens. co-decision has become the general rule, with up to 80% of laws adopted in the member states being acts voted in this forum. parliament's responsibility to its citizens is greater than ever. all the work done in parliament must therefore live up to this responsibility. the report underlines that the first priority for 2008 is to ensure efficient services for members, with a view to an efficient legislative process. thanks to the recommendations of this report, we will have translations in all the 20 languages of the parliament's committees. moreover, our work will be better communicated through our own television station and a programme will be created whereby journalists from the local and regional press will be able to come to parliament to bring european information to their communities. but parliament's most important resource is still the people who work here. in this connection, i tabled an amendment to the report which concerns the staff of this institution and more specifically the insufficient number of employees in the state i represent. following the accession of romania and bulgaria, the parliament's secretariat-general, moreover, has practically decided that an equal number of permanent staff, namely 113 for each of the two countries, would be needed in the service of the institution. this is a problem because, as a percentage, fewer young romanians can get a seat in the european parliament because romania's population is almost three times that of bulgaria. at the same time, the romanian meps, who are twice as numerous as the bulgarian ones, can rely on the technical services of insufficient staff, which can affect the efficiency of our work. a certain proportionality has always been respected in the european institutions. parliament has in the past taken into account considerations such as the size of the delegation or the population of the member states, and the european union personnel office, epso, has put out a significantly higher number of vacancies for romanian nationals this year, namely 440 compared to 275. my amendment, ladies and gentlemen, seeks to correct this abnormal situation, since parliament is the only institution in which this discrimination persists, contrary to the democratic spirit which characterizes it.
on behalf of the its group. i particularly appreciate the report on the estimate of the budget of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2008 prepared by ville itälä with a high level of professionalism, i support it and i will recommend to my colleagues in the group to vote on it. apart from these general considerations, but without excluding them, i will mention a few particular considerations which only serve to emphasise the consistency of the report. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency'), which would be based on the principle of mutual recognition of medical certificates. in this connection, i find the rapporteur's proposal to draw up a special information programme, the main target and beneficiary of which should be formed, in particular, by smaller local media structures, particularly timely. i also think that the rapporteur's proposal to approve financial resources to allow direct meetings with local journalists in parliament is very valuable and i support it wholeheartedly, because i consider it to be one of the most effective ways of making known, directly and in full transparency, all his activities. in the absence of time, i shall confine myself to mentioning one more aspect of the report, namely multilingualism. i fully agree with the rapporteur that this very important area deserves particular attention, given the possible effects of misinterpretation of texts as a result of less accurate translations. in this connection too, i believe that, in particular, the representatives of the new member states must be given appropriate linguistic support in proportion to their number in the various union structures.
given that romania and bulgaria are the newest members of the european union, i believe it is important that the posts in these countries be filled by competition as soon as possible and that there should also be a budget for informing specialist journalists in the national media about the role and responsibilities of the european parliament. an important role is played by parliament's information offices, which must have the financial resources to present and promote the european parliament at national level. the european parliament in 2008 must ensure better legislation and communication to the public of the benefits of community policy. unfortunately, for many citizens of the member states, brussels means more bureaucracy and less awareness of the actions for the benefit of citizens. we have a duty to change that perception. the european parliament's 2008 budget must provide translation services for all official meetings in all the national languages of the participants, as well as the resources needed for an effective information and communication policy - i am referring in particular to the modernisation of the information systems, the financing of the web tv programme and the audio-visual centre. i congratulate the reporter.
- next week, on 29 june, the ministerial meeting of the energy community treaty in south-east europe will take place in montenegro, in potgoritza. the possibility of extending the treaty and opening accession negotiations with four new countries will be examined: moldova, turkey, norway and ukraine. i would like to refer to the opening of negotiations with ukraine. this country is an important partner for the union in the energy field and, as such, the opening of negotiations on its accession to the treaty is welcome. at the same time, however, accession to the treaty must mean greater responsibility for the country's compliance with international commitments, including environmental protection. ukraine has not yet fulfilled a number of international commitments, some of which are mentioned in chapter 3 of the energy community treaty. if this continues, one of the effects could be the severe and irreversible damage to the danube delta's biosphere, europe's largest wetland reserve. for this reason, i call on the european commission to give due weight to the issue of environmental protection in the negotiations for ukraine's accession to the treaty; to deal responsibly with these issues and to ensure that ukraine immediately implements all the provisions of chapter 3 of the treaty.
- on 13 june i had the honour of representing the european parliament at the plenary session of the parliamentary assembly of the black sea economic cooperation organisation. the main item on the agenda was cooperation between the european union and the black sea region, in the context of the accession of romania and bulgaria on 1 january 2007 and the launch of the european commission's communication black sea synergy - a new regional cooperation. after 1 january 2007, the black sea region is the eastern border of the european union, and ensuring stability and security in the area has become a priority for all of us. through its programmes, the european union must continue to encourage economic and democratic reforms and support the development of the black sea region. but the resources for dialogue, for construction and ultimately for peace lie in the black sea region, and only the use of this opportunity by each country in the region can turn good ideas into reality.
my one-minute speech today is related to the conduct of local elections in the republic of moldova. as you know, yesterday was the second round of the local elections. although independent campaign observers revealed numerous irregularities and the ruling communist party used administrative levers at the central and local levels to create an advantage in competition with other parties, the mayoralty of chisinau, the capital of the republic of moldova, was won by the liberal party candidate dorin chirtoacă. he is a young politician with modernist and pro-european views, and the victory of the non-communist opposition is a victory of democracy in the republic of moldova. my country, romania, wants to see moldova as a member of the european union one day. how close or far that day will be depends solely on the citizens and the political class of moldova, and how they manage to reform society and the economy in this country. however, the opposition's victory in the capital chisinau is a very good sign.
by supporting the development of broadband internet, we are demonstrating the coherence between the lisbon strategy's declarations of goodwill on a knowledge-based economy and concrete action. we all agree that these services can strengthen territorial and social cohesion by facilitating the provision and development of a wide range of other services. the information gap between rural and urban areas, as well as the gap in access to information that still exists between citizens in large cities, can be reduced across europe. job opportunities can be created for people with disabilities as well as for many who have to make economic activity compatible with family life, by promoting remote work and employee-friendly flexibility. given its economic, social and cultural role, it is important to support policies that do not exclude any of the factors that can contribute to the development of broadband internet: local authorities, governments, structural funds, private entrepreneurs, and any of the technologies. in a knowledge-based economy, access to information must be a universal right, and computer literacy through schools and other community-based actions must occupy the same place in human and economic development as the first literacy did more than a century ago. knowledge is something that is shared without being divided. a free market of knowledge, made possible by free internet services, is necessary for the scientific community to open up possibilities for development that we do not suspect today, but for which we can create conditions.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work and his openness in dealing with all the aspects of economic and trade relations between the european union and russia. one of these facets, which i would like to address, is russia's geopolitical position. after the accession of romania and bulgaria on 1 january 2007, the eastern border of the european union is the black sea region, of which russia is a part and where it plays a very important role, both economically and commercially and, of course, politically. the black sea region is an area with immense development potential, but at the same time an area that needs to find appropriate responses to existing challenges. among them, ensuring the security and stability of the region as a whole, but also of each country individually, is the first priority. in this context, finding and implementing a solution to resolve frozen conflicts is imperative. it continues to be a major obstacle to regional development and economic prosperity, and russia's position and constructive involvement in this regard must be an ever-present theme in the european union's dialogue with this country. the energy issue must be addressed in the context of the black sea, but also separately from it. it should be noted that the european union's relations with russia cannot develop without taking into account the need to base them on mutual trust and respect for international obligations and democratic principles by both partners. and to put the region in context, i think that diversifying energy sources must remain a priority for the european union. finally, i hope that the new european union initiative to strengthen cooperation in the black sea will help to achieve the above objectives and above all to develop a sincere dialogue between the partners in the region, who could thus learn to listen, trust and cooperate with their neighbours, in accordance with internationally recognised democratic standards.
first of all, i must say that i am delighted to be taking part in such a debate in the european parliament. i think it is important to talk about the challenges of the modern world, about the family and education, about us and our lives; and the document we are talking about is a serious and consistent one, and for that i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs marie panayotopoulos cassiotou. statistics show that education is inversely proportional to poverty. i mean, the higher a person's education, the lower their risk of poverty and the higher their chance of having a well-paying job, a home, a car, ultimately a better life. all statistics show that the level of development of a society is directly proportional to the level of education of its members. on the other hand, those with a high level of education do not have the number of children they want. many european countries also have a negative natural birth rate and are facing serious problems with intergenerational relations, with an increase in the number of dependants. so a middle ground is needed, one that does not mean giving up children and family or dropping out of school. in finding this balance the state plays a very important role. he is the one who can take some of the responsibilities of child rearing and care off the shoulders of families and parents; make arrangements for student parents to have accommodations adapted to their needs; propose, in association with educational institutions, more flexible arrangements for study; facilitate, with credit institutions, loans for those who are raising families and pursuing some form of education; provide scholarships; exempt student parents from paying certain taxes and duties - that is, in a country the government can create an environment that encourages young people not to choose one or the other option. but i think that to all this must be added a responsibility of the state in education: the introduction of partnership education within the family. only when both spouses feel that they can and will fill the other's role in the family can a balance between family and work be truly possible.
education and life expectancy are indicators of human development. europe is doing well in this respect, which is good, not a social or economic danger. the demographic difficulties stem from false priorities and an allocation of resources that is insensitive to life, in which man appears as a means to economic growth, not the other way around. a man is not just a useful asset, a workforce and a contributor to the social security system. nor can the reproduction of labor be a social necessity, but an individual responsibility. like the extinct indian tribe, politicians should ask themselves, in every decision, is it good for the children? as for the parents, we must take into account their specificity, the overload caused by a multiple obligation: study; work to support and raise a child; lack of adequate housing; parents who cannot help because they are of working age and are themselves under the requirement of reconciliation; conservative educational institutions a pregnant high school student can still be a cause of scandal and expulsion ; certain allowances are not a child's right but a derivative right of those who work, excluding students; at the age of the study, only one man in four women wants a child, and it's too early for artificial reproduction. feminization and educational gender segregation make it difficult to start a family at university. achieving the 'barcelona' target for childcare services is urgently needed. without rapid progress towards real equality between women and men... it is not enough, where the family bears the name of the man, but still bears the responsibility of the woman.
women's potential and talent must not be wasted. the year 2007 is the year of equal opportunities and it is therefore imperative to reconcile family life and work through flexicurity, the introduction of a method such as teleworking and, above all, the improvement of lifelong learning. at the same time, childcare facilities for children under 3 years old must be developed for at least 90% of children in this age group. these must be our priorities, but especially those of the ministers responsible for social affairs and family protection, given that although 80.7% of young women aged 20 to 24 have completed upper secondary education, women represent only 15% of those with academic degrees and only 33% of european researchers. only 28% of female researchers working in industry have children.
public tenders account for more than 16% of the community's gross domestic product. dynamic purchasing systems and electronic auctions ensure transparency, equal market access and significant savings. at the same time, the harmonisation of public procurement procedures leads to increased competition between smes and, by implication, to their competitiveness. the ida community programme, which is designed to exchange data between public administrations, has since 2003 provided information on successful implementations of electronic auction systems. a year earlier, romania introduced the electronic public procurement system in march 2002. with over 7200 contracting authorities and over 7500 tenderers registered in the system, savings of 24% were thus achieved against the planned budget. i believe that the use of electronic means for public procurement will really help the european union to achieve the objectives proposed by the lisbon strategy. i congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
the achievement of the lisbon objectives is a priority for all of us. therefore, any initiative that promotes increased labour mobility and can contribute to economic growth and reduction of unemployment is welcome. the harmonization of legislation on supplementary pensions, which promotes european labour mobility, cannot, however, be achieved abruptly. some member states have more developed systems with a long tradition in this field, while others are in the early stages of introducing supplementary pensions. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on the reflection of this diversity in all the amendments to the directive. we are dealing with a balanced ratio which facilitates the retention or reimbursement of the additional pension rights acquired by employees who change jobs, without burdening employers, private pension funds or other taxpayers. it is a first step that all member states can accept and build on. the transfer of pensions of any kind must be possible for european citizens working in another member state of the union. an additional benefit for the employee is the increased transparency of the system. member states are obliged to take the necessary measures to ensure that employees are informed of their monetary rights if they cease to work for a particular company. for romania, the introduction of this directive in the field of supplementary pensions means a standard that allows us to develop this economic sector, which is in its infancy in our country, without having to bear the costs involved in a reform. since 2008, romanian legislation provides for the introduction of supplementary pensions, which means that almost all romanian citizens will be able to benefit from the rights conferred by this directive. however, it takes time to implement the new requirements. i therefore support the idea of granting an additional period of 60 months for the implementation of the measures provided for in the directive.
on behalf of the its group. ms bazeli's report covers a very wide range of issues concerning juvenile delinquency, accurately presenting the causes of this extremely serious phenomenon, which is expanding at various levels, both in the eu and outside the eu. i shall refer to two aspects which i did not find mentioned in the report, namely: 1. the church - regardless of its denomination - can and should play an increasingly important role in the education of children and youth, in and out of school. the church's cooperation with the school and the family is beneficial in preventing unwanted youths from slipping into crime, in forming a healthy and correct outlook on life, and in helping young people in crisis situations to recover. religious education in schools of all grades is almost non-existent. she should have her place back where she was all those years ago. 2. the spirit of discipline and responsibility of young people towards their families and society, towards their own lives, leaves much to be desired as a result of multiple causes analyzed in the report. moreover, in the former communist states, the excessive constraints to which young people have been subjected for generations have now been replaced, in the last seventeen years, by far too much, by a debauchery that opens up dangerous slides, to the negation of national and european values and the copying of so-called models that are extremely harmful to the civic and professional training of young people. as a teacher and educator, i particularly appreciate ms. bazeli's efforts to analyze this complex issue and ask her to kindly bow to the above.
i would like to congratulate my colleague mrs bazeli on her report. youth crime and violence in schools are phenomena that exist in all member states and that we have a responsibility to combat through national and european strategies and measures. prevention, social inclusion and rehabilitation of juvenile offenders as well as appropriate judicial measures are needed. because certain groups of minors are more vulnerable - girls aged 14 to 18, groups of migrants, people without a fixed address - and because there is a risk that criminal organisations use minors for drug trafficking, prostitution and theft, it is important that the incitement of minors to crime is an aggravating circumstance for adult offenders. educational measures must become a priority and it is important to have partnership agreements between different institutions such as school, police, institution and local authorities for the development of youth recreation centres and their social inclusion. training parents in the importance of supervising and guiding their children, as well as raising awareness of the dangers, will enable them to intervene at the first signs of behavioral problems.
as of 1 january 2007, romania has a very important position in the external border scheme of the european union, given the geographical area in which it is located and the fact that it is the second green border in length. romania has taken responsibility for its external border with the utmost care, investing significant amounts in the integrated border security system, achieving the best performing system in the field. however, the support of both romania and the other countries that are external borders of the union is still needed. frontex has a special operational role in this respect and the allocation of funds for the expansion of its operational capacity would be an expression of cooperation and solidarity between member states. cooperation with the countries covered by the european neighbourhood policy is an additional guarantee for preventing and combating terrorism, for fighting organised crime, illegal immigration or trafficking of any kind, and for protecting europe's citizens. an example of extending political stability to the union's neighbours is the agreements reached this week between the european community and ukraine on visa facilitation and the readmission of persons. as regards transatlantic cooperation, i believe that the united states of america must recognize the process of enlargement of the union including the equal and non-preferential treatment of its citizens. all member states contribute to ensuring crossborder security and to the fight against terrorism. the european union must therefore ask the united states, as well as other countries which do not respect the principle of reciprocity, to waive the entry visas imposed on some member states of the european union.
in writing. the european commission's strategy for the external dimension of the area of freedom, security and justice focuses on a strong security partnership with the united states of america, based on reciprocity and trust. however, citizens of 12 european countries still need visas to travel to the united states. this constitutes a violation of the principle of reciprocity, as all eu countries have abolished the visa requirement for us citizens. moreover, the new member states have accepted in the accession process to take over eu regulation 593, which suspends visas for some third countries, such as the usa. romania has received a firm promise from the european commission that its position on visa elimination will be taken up in the union's relations with the us. i therefore ask the commission to use all the instruments that european legislation gives it, from negotiations to proposing equivalent measures for american citizens. in addition, the commission must raise the issue of visas in all its negotiations with the us, whether it is the traveller registration agreement currently being negotiated or other justice and home affairs agreements. we cannot be an equal security partner of the united states of america without benefiting from the uniform treatment accorded to all member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, for his very good work that led to this report. i will recall, as he has already done, the terrible story which took place three years ago in belgium. a frenchman, aged 62, was given a job at a school. he was then arrested and confessed to nine murders on both sides of the franco-belgian border. it was then learned that he had previously been convicted of rape in france but that no one in belgium was aware of his criminal record. we all remember the fourniret case. this case, among others, demonstrates how urgently we need a functioning european criminal records system in a europe composed of so many different legal systems. i congratulate the commission on this very valuable proposal. this is a clear case of much-needed legislation that could bring tangible improvements to citizens’ security in their day-to-day lives. i therefore salute last week’s agreement in the council, but i urge the council to adopt this important text as soon as possible. for the first time, we now have uniform eu-wide rules which will ensure a faster exchange of information on criminal records and bring more legal certainty. it is also a first step towards online data communication between the eu countries. i am satisfied that the option chosen was an interconnection of records rather than having another central eu database. this is a positive step as far as cost and above all data protection are concerned. i should like to insist again on the privacy issue. in the absence of any agreement on the framework decision on procedural rights in criminal proceedings and on data protection in the third pillar, i urge the council to adopt the additional data protection provisions included in this report. we cannot continue adopting such instruments without giving additional guarantees to our citizens that their fundamental rights are respected.
on behalf of the its group. of course, any initiative aimed at improving community activities, especially those in the economic field, is beneficial to the achievement of the union's objectives, with the exception of the most important of these - the promotion of economic and social progress. in this general context, initiatives aimed at improving the way one of the important economic activities, public procurement, is conducted, can only be a welcome one. the parliament and the council's move to propose the adoption of this directive is therefore fully justified, since it arose from a real need: that the current rules do not create a sufficient legal framework to allow the effective promotion of redress in cases of non-compliance with community provisions on public procurement. that conclusion was reached after consultation with economic operators in several member states, who confirmed that the current national appeal procedures do not always allow for sufficient correction of cases of non-compliance with the relevant community provisions. the final text of the directive addresses most of these shortcomings and its application will have beneficial effects in all situations, but especially in cases of the award of contracts by agreement between the parties, an illegal practice which is found in most eu countries but for which no effective solutions have been adopted so far. beneficial effects will also be seen in newly acceded countries such as romania, where the legal provisions in this area are still quite permissive, which may facilitate the onerous award of public procurement contracts. in conclusion, i support and will vote in favour of the adoption of the draft directive.
mr president, at first sight the digital environment looks like being a model of a world without boundaries, like a kind of theoretical perfect common market where everyone can provide goods, information services, communication and entertainment, and everyone is able to buy all these things. it is not true. we notice a strong fragmentation caused by the lack of trust on both sides – suppliers and consumers – but we have also noticed an unfounded economic protectionism that uses the same uncertainties as justification for excluding some possible stakeholders from the market. consumers, especially those from the small or new member states, are still victims of a segregation based on nationality, place of residence or the place of origin of their credit cards. in my country, romania, there are still major problems in this regard because of a bad reputation which has been artificially acquired and maintained, despite the fact that the report provided by the cybersource corporation did not include romania among the countries with a high level of risk regarding electronic commerce. it is not only true in our case. there are companies that are used to changing prices depending on the place of residence of the consumer, or totally forbidding access to their supply. this kind of commercial behaviour is hardly acceptable for consumers and small businesses. in order to avoid the feeling of being discriminated against, we need tangible, urgent measures: a database of those who are genuinely untrustworthy; european trust marks; common standards concerning contracts, terms and conditions; as well as stronger legal instruments and technical protection for those who use cyberspace. commissioner, we look forward to having a european charter of users’ rights and obligations in order to be able to support an inclusive society in a digital environment. i thank you all for the work you have done so far.
the public sector is the largest provider of services in the european union. e-government services ensure transparency, easy access to public information and services and lead to significant savings in time and financial resources. e-government services bring public institutions closer to those they are supposed to serve. e-government services increase and build on the trust of users in the digital environment, whether citizens, employees of public institutions or companies. the 20 public services set out by the european commission in 2003 to be provided by member states and by electronic means must become a reality in all member states by 2010, whether we are talking about a large city or a small community. services such as electronic auctions, payment of taxes by electronic means, the transmission of forms to public institutions, in particular through national single access points, for authentication and access to integrated e-government services, contribute to the development of the information society. romania started introducing these services as early as 2001. the public key infrastructure, electronic signature services, protection of personal data are essential for users' trust in the information society. so it requires significant investment and a priority to ensure the security of the digital environment. it is also important that all schools have computers and that they are connected to the internet. training citizens and, in particular, helping them to secure their home pc and internet connection will increase users' confidence in the digital environment.
the proposal to bring the constitutional treaty into force, specifying the appointment of a foreign minister and an appropriate diplomatic staff, seems to me risky in a situation where this treaty has been rejected by some european states and has not even been discussed in the new states that have joined the union. the serious shortcomings in respect of human rights and freedoms, especially in third countries with which the union has special relations, seem to me to be treated globally and in a general way, the problem being much more complex. one example: the total ignorance of this in the transnistria area is a minimized issue in the report. in my view, the human rights situation in transnistria would itself require a separate debate, because it is a hotbed of insecurity on the eastern border of the european union. the fight against corruption in the eu countries, not just in third countries, must be seen and closely monitored, because dangerous slippages are taking place within the european community itself, which go almost unnoticed. an example: in romania, a number of members of the current government, including some members of the hungarians in romania, romanian citizens, were charged and prosecuted for embezzling large sums of money, forgery and use of forgery. the reaction of the government in budapest was prompt: it officially asked the romanian government for explanations for this, politicizing the action of the general prosecutor's office. it is not only reprehensible, but also a blatant interference in the internal affairs of a neighbouring member state of the european union. that is why we have voted against this report.
the german presidency of the european union began under excellent auspices for romania, with our country becoming a member on 1 january 2007. this historic moment was unanimously validated in the parliament of romania with the european constitutional treaty. unfortunately, it was not adopted, and new negotiations were initiated. in these political circumstances i particularly appreciate the efforts of germany and chancellor merkel to reach a consensus. germany and france have together laid the foundations of the european union, overcoming centuries-old resentments. hence the determination and perseverance with which the german presidency sought consensus. romania has supported this position in the conviction that only together can we build europe to ensure peace, security and the well-being of all its citizens. i hope this time the deal is honored, because it's not, pacta sum servanda! good luck to the portuguese presidency in this regard!
romania has taken note of the adoption by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe of the dick marty report on alleged detention centres. we regret that the rapporteur, despite repeated invitations to document himself on the spot, preferred to hold direct discussions with the romanian authorities and to produce the report on the basis of unnamed sources, whose veracity has not been proven so far. as the subject will soon be taken up again in the libe committee of the european parliament, romania, in a spirit of total openness and cooperation, wishes to be made aware of the evidence which has been the basis for the formulation of such serious accusations. we're also asking to see if there's any other information that might have been left uninvestigated at the national level. in addition, we are reiterating the need for mr. dick marty to accept the invitation to travel to romania to have direct talks with the authorities, to be directly confronted with the results of the national investigation carried out.
as a result of climate change, european farmers are increasingly faced with droughts and floods. farmers in romania are facing excessive drought this year, which affected all crops planted in the autumn of 2006 and spring of 2007. this year, over a million farmers in southern, western and eastern romania will not be able to harvest even one kilogram of agricultural product from a hectare of arable land, which will lead to an explosive increase in prices on the romanian market for all agri-food products and to the bankruptcy of farmers. the european union must do more to support member states in such situations through the european solidarity fund.
the budgetary procedure for 2008 opens up the prospect of a possible reduction in the structural and cohesion funds on the basis of a low absorption rate in 2007. in the first year of implementation of a new financial programming, all the member states have a low absorption rate because they have to wait for the commission to approve the operational programmes. although romania was among the first countries to submit these documents, they have not been approved so far, despite the 4-month deadline adopted by european legislation. the delay in the approval of sectoral operational programmes reduces by almost a year the period in which projects can be submitted for funding. as a result, many projects planned for 2007 will be delayed, with considerable economic costs. in addition, there is a discontinuity in access to european funding. the pre-accession funds were very well absorbed - 97% of phare - and i am sure that the structural and cohesion funds will be as well. the limitation of structural funds would affect more the latest eu accession countries, romania and bulgaria, which have already allocated smaller amounts. the two countries benefit together from a fund equal to that of hungary. for all these reasons, i believe that the reduction in the amounts for cohesion policy should not be based on the absorption for the current year. the european parliament, as the institution with the final say on the structural funds, must not allow this and must ask the european commission to speed up the approval of the operational programmes.
i would like to welcome the decision of the ministerial conference of the south east european energy community treaty in montenegro on 29 june to open negotiations on the accession of moldova and ukraine to the south east european energy community. the accession of moldova to this treaty means the adoption of community legislation in the field of energy and the environment; it means integration into the european electricity and natural gas market; it means a european perspective for this country; it means in fact a great step forward towards the european union. i regard the deadline of 31 december 2007 for the completion of moldova's accession negotiations as a realistic one. as these negotiations will be conducted with the european commission, i ask the european commission not to make any association between the accession of moldova to the treaty and that of ukraine. negotiations must be conducted separately and accession must be based on the merits of each country. due to ukraine's approach to environmental issues, including the basra canal issue and the situation with nuclear safety standards, it is possible that ukraine's accession will be delayed. it would be wrong in such a situation to delay moldova's accession because of ukraine's problems.
the european parliament is due to adopt four regulations tomorrow, which will require the commission and the standing committee on the food chain and animal health to review all existing authorisations in terms of criteria other than safety, such as dosage, technological requirements and even possible consumer misrepresentation. once these regulations come into force, the european commission will have to monitor their application and take action, particularly against manufacturers of food for infants and children, who do not yet mention on labels the quantity and name of all additives, especially those used in very small quantities and which cannot be easily detected by conventional methods of analysis. in many countries of the european union today, doctors have reported many cases of food allergies caused by various food additives. without all of these on the food label, doctors - and i'm speaking as a doctor - are unable to find the necessary remedies for these allergies, especially if it's an emergency. for these reasons i think that the european parliament should support these ideas tomorrow, support the amendments which relate to them.
i would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the objective way in which mr vidal-quadras has drawn up this report. i would like to stress a few things: firstly, i believe that in order to have a competitive internal energy market, we need to introduce a complete separation of ownership between energy distribution and energy production. as has been said today, this would lead to greater transparency, stimulate investment in distribution infrastructure and, i believe, ultimately help to generate affordable energy for consumers. in the natural gas sector, i believe that the measures we are going to take must encourage the construction of new projects that diversify the sources of supply for the european union, such as the nabucco project. under no circumstances should liberalisation measures discourage the realisation of such projects, as diversification of the natural gas supply sources of the european union is a key element in the creation of an internal gas market. last but not least, i would like to stress the need to maintain public support for market liberalisation measures and, in this context, i believe that the european parliament, the european commission and even the public authorities in the member states must jointly step up their efforts to raise awareness of the opportunities arising from the full liberalisation of the european electricity and gas market, and at the same time to ensure that the rights of energy consumers, individuals or companies, are protected. we cannot consider the liberalisation of the energy market to be completed until we have succeeded in creating a fully transparent and efficient market in which consumers can freely and in full knowledge of the facts choose the most advantageous supply of energy.
i appreciate the content of the report we are debating today and i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for his work. the energy market is the key element of european energy policy. i would like to highlight a few points: as regards the electricity market, i believe that the separation of ownership of the transmission system from the distribution and generation activities is a measure that will lead to increased competition on the market, increased investment and a better price for the consumer. in romania, the transport system is already functioning independently and the results have proved to be beneficial. in addition, the electricity transmission company was listed on the stock exchange, which would increase its operations substantially. as regards natural gas, i believe that all future proposals should encourage the construction of projects that diversify supply sources and transport routes, for example the nabucco project, which would allow the union access to the resources of the caspian sea area. for this reason, i would encourage the commission to initiate in september two legislative proposals - one for electricity and one for gas - two proposals which take account of the common principles of liberalisation but also of the specific nature of the two areas. it is clear that the most important consequence of the liberalisation of gas and electricity markets is the european consumer's choice between several suppliers and the fair and competitive price that will be formed by competition in a free market. although the directive on the liberalisation of the two resource markets entered into force on 1 july, we must also promote an appropriate information campaign to make citizens aware of all the rights and opportunities offered by liberalisation. in this connection, i would like to welcome the adoption on friday by the european commission of principles for a future energy consumer charter. it is an important step towards rebalancing the balance of power between consumers and energy suppliers. it is essential, however, that these principles become binding on the member states. we must not forget for a moment that market liberalisation is for the citizens and they are the first to benefit from this liberalisation.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's support for the diversification of postal operators' activities through the provision of information society services, an amendment that i support because it ensures both the survival of traditional postal operators in the digital age and possible alternative sources of funding for the universal service. i believe that the most important factor for progress is competition, which leads to better quality of service and lower prices. in romania, legislation already provided for the date of 1 january 2009 for the abolition of the reserved area, and in some member states full liberalisation has already taken place. the text approved by parliament is a compromise text which allows for the full liberalisation of postal services, but shows solidarity with the states which need more time for this process. the directive also proposes solutions for the financing of the universal service, but does not fix a way of calculating the costs. we're waiting for the commission's decision by september. it is essential that postal services are accessible and available even in a hamlet with only a few families, located on a mountain top or on an island, and that the quality of postal jobs is ensured even after the market has been fully opened.
on behalf of the its group. i consider that a paper aimed at establishing a medium-term policy in the field of financial services is one whose necessity and importance cannot be questioned. market concentration, alternative investment vehicles, access to retail finance, systemic risks, improving legal provisions and others are important categories of activities whose application at national level, as well as their impact at global level, justify such actions also at european union level. the need for such a move arises first of all from the need to ensure greater transparency and a level playing field for competition, but also from the need to separate the different services provided to the consumer and, not least, from the limited range of retail products offered by financial groups operating on national markets. in the absence of time, i will focus on the area of consumer protection only. although this is considered at european union level as one of the priority activities, practice shows that in certain areas the necessary quotas are not met either because of insufficient legal provisions or because of the lack of clear guarantees that service providers are reliable and financially sound bodies. with these few clarifications, i would like to mention that i support the approval of the rapporteur's proposal on the commission's white paper on financial services policy for the period 2005-2010, as well as the proposals on the organisation of debates on hedge funds, which are also the position of the competent authority in romania on the issue of financial instruments markets.
i believe that this report is balanced and reflects the diversity of labour relations across the european union, but also the political positions on a subject which is the subject of heated debate. achieving a win-win balance between employee and employer must be a priority for the european union. in this framework of flexibility and security, the employer gains more labour and the employee more protection for the flexible contract type. for romania, where we have a large pool of rural labour, flexible labour contracts are a solution to enter the labour market without losing the social rights enjoyed by employees with a traditional contract. this would ensure a faster integration of rural workers into the labour market, enabling them to participate in and benefit from the growth of the economy in the coming years. i appreciate the attention the report gives to family support. many of these flexible contracts are chosen by women who are facing increasing pressure to reconcile work and family life. in support of young people, i would have liked the report to encourage more the use of information and communication technology as the main tools in the way of working. remote work in conditions of maximum mobility is a trend already present that we must use to the benefit of those best prepared for it. to reduce undeclared work, we must encourage employers to declare employment relationships without being economically disadvantaged. part of this is due to restrictions that some member states still maintain for workers from countries that have recently joined the european union. it is an unnecessary discrimination which creates both administrative problems for the states concerned and risks for workers. i therefore believe that the abolition of the transitional periods imposed by these member states will have the direct effect of reducing undeclared work.
the accession of romania and bulgaria brought the black sea to the border of the european union, creating the opportunity to develop a maritime policy that encompasses all the seas and oceans surrounding europe. the black sea and the mediterranean sea are two areas of the utmost importance for the union's neighbourhood policy. port development, trade, coastal industry, research, fisheries and tourism are integral elements of both neighbourhood and maritime policy. maritime transport networks, regional environmental policies and energy transport channels are also included in the action plans of both policies. the european maritime policy will support the neighbourhood policy, catalysing and complementing its actions. maritime policy must initiate and implement measures in the above-mentioned areas to ensure a convergent development of both the member states and the coastal states included in the neighbourhood policy. a viable european maritime policy must ensure cooperation between neighbouring states and between them and the union, and have the capacity to address issues within the regional structures whose work has proved useful so far. the eu's assumption of observer status in the bs is evidence of this. the development of a maritime policy must take account of the specificities of each area, such as the problem of traffic of all kinds and the optimisation of the transit of energy products in the case of the black sea or the phenomenon of migration in the case of the mediterranean sea. the actions already envisaged by the commission, such as the communication on black sea synergy, should be benchmarks in strengthening the future common european maritime policy. the sea is not a barrier but a bridge to be strengthened by a joint effort of mutual understanding and solidarity with real possibilities for european involvement in the democratization and development processes of the coastal states.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, once again your contributions here today demonstrate the commitment of parliament to maritime policy and this is clear proof of the excellent coordination work carried out by mr piecyk. in your contributions, you raised a number of points which clearly merit further study and consideration, especially in view of the preparation for the adoption of the blue paper by the commission next october. let me state clearly that the aim of our work on maritime policy is to unlock the potential that exists in the sustainable use of our oceans and seas. we are looking for the first time at this maritime space in an integrated and holistic manner and we seek to build on where we see the added value. let me underline that this is certainly not an exercise in centralisation of powers but one which seeks to provide an incentive for coordination and to involve stakeholders much more than they are involved today. clearly, this is the beginning of the process and not the end. there will be opportunities to continue to develop our positions on a number of points raised. let me just repeat that a maritime policy cannot be a one-size-fits-all policy. the specificities of the different seas around the european union have to be properly factored in. let me just say a word on the regional aspects. clearly, we view the regional dimension as the key factor in our exercise and the ultra-peripheral dimension is undoubtedly focal. i would like to assure you that those involved on a regional level and regional actions will remain a cornerstone of our policy as we bring this issue forward.
in writing. the report by mr willi piecyk of the committee on transport and tourism addresses a set of topical issues concerning the establishment of general rules and charges applicable to eu member states for the protection and rational exploitation of the waters of the seas and oceans. i shall refer to some issues relating to the specific situation in the black sea, the external border of the union, namely: after the fall of the communist regime in romania, the development of tourism on the western coast of the black sea has led to a worrying increase in pollution of the sea waters due to the countless restaurants that are open right on the beach, restaurants that dump waste of all kinds into the sea; at the same time the beach has become very narrow because of these establishments. pollution of the black sea is also largely due to the unreasonable exploitation of the danube delta - europe's second largest river after the volga. the biological balance of the delta, its unique flora and fauna in europe, is being seriously affected by the construction of the bastrop canal by ukraine - an action that has been opposed by experts from all over the world. for these reasons, and many others, we welcome and fully support the proposals made by the rapporteur, in particular the building of a single european maritime policy on the basis of the green paper.
in writing. the mandate of the european council overcomes the constitutional impasse in which the european union has been stuck for more than two years, but at the same time it sacrifices some essential provisions. the european council decided that european symbols should be excluded from the future treaty; i regard this as regrettable and support the amendment of parliament's rules of procedure to formally adopt the flag and anthem of the european union. european citizens respect these symbols, which they consider familiar and close, as the latest eurobarometer shows. in romania, 76% of citizens associate eu symbols with a sense of confidence; therefore, i am convinced that the european union flag will continue to fly proudly in my country. the mandate also defines the establishment of a new european parliament. as the only elected body of the union and the one which is meant to represent the citizens most faithfully, i believe that the european parliament must fully respect the principle of proportionality in the designation of the number of meps from each member state. the representation of each country should not be determined by political negotiations, but should reflect the size of the populations of the member states. last but not least, i think it is essential to include the solidarity clause in the energy field. it will provide the legislative framework on which the european union can better protect its interests and strengthen energy independence.
in writing. i voted for the degutis report on 'common rules in the field of civil aviation' because the text ensures that all the views expressed are represented. i am pleased that non-discrimination based on the residence of the tour operator or the passenger will be ensured, although i regret that non-discrimination based on distribution channels was not approved. today, it is possible that a ticket for the same flight from bucharest to brussels operated by the same airline may cost differently if the ticket is purchased in bucharest than if the ticket is purchased in brussels. the commission has also proposed that the new rules should be applied to all air carriers, including those operating in the eu, and that the new rules should be applied to all air carriers. on another note, unfortunately, even though there are rules to protect passengers in the event of flight delays or even cancellations, they do not know their rights and cannot, by default, defend them. we, the members of the european parliament, represent the citizens of europe, and this regulation ensures better conditions for air passengers. we have a duty to ensure that passengers know their rights and are able to defend them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are in the village of the world, europe, lamenting the fact that in the square, near our borders, human beings are cutting their throats. instead of intervening, we cry and scream like old women. it's called failing to assist a person in distress, and it's a crime punishable by law. a great sage once said that saints and prophets are worth more than artists, men of letters, statesmen, soldiers and merchants. but where are the wise men and the prophets today? we need a new st. francis of assisi. he too lived in a time of crusades, but he was interested in others, those against whom the crusaders were fighting. he made every effort to go to them. finally, during the fifth crusade, during the siege of damietta in egypt, he was saddened by the behavior of the crusaders, saying "i have seen evil and sin". st. francis, shocked by the sight of the dead on the battlefield, crossed the front lines. he was captured, chained and taken to sultan saladin, who was born in tikrit. the meeting must have been very special, for after a conversation that went on late into the night, the sultan let st. francis return safely to the crusader camp the next morning. i hope that each one explained his reasons to the other, that st. francis spoke of christ, that the sultan read passages from the koran, and that in the end they agreed on the message that poor st. francis of assisi repeated everywhere: "love your neighbor as yourself". tony blair was one of the crusaders in iraq. can he become the st. francis europe needs in the middle east?
i come before you today to discuss an extremely serious issue facing many countries in the european union and around the world, including romania, namely extreme weather events, obviously associated with their effects on local communities. the cause, obviously, we all know, but perhaps we're still doing far too little to mitigate its effects: global warming. warming and pollution are two processes that reinforce each other. rising temperatures are causing pollution to increase, and rising pollution is raising temperatures. romanian cities, in general, have a pollution level three times higher than those in europe. the most polluted areas of romania are in the northwestern part of the country, where the cities of baia mare and copşa mică, for example, have been included in the ranking of the thirty-five most polluted localities in the world. as a result of global warming, romania will join spain, greece and italy as the countries that will feel the most severe weather changes in 2015. ten counties in southern romania will become arid in the next twenty years and many plant crops here will disappear. romania's situation is not unique in the european union and therefore we needed to act together, on the basis of the principle of solidarity, which is at the heart of european integration. we must act on two fronts: tackling these extreme phenomena and eliminating, or at least reducing, the causes that underlie them. in dealing with the effects of natural disasters, the funds that the european union can allocate are of real benefit to the communities and people who go through such traumatic experiences. irrigation systems can be improved, schools and hospitals can be repaired in the event of drought, in short, people can feel that european solidarity is not just a concept devoid of content. at the same time, it is our duty as the european parliament, together with the commission and the council, to work together to ensure that these funds are allocated as quickly as possible, to reduce red tape. think about what happens to people who are left homeless by floods this fall, and the funds don't arrive until next spring. how will they spend the winter? moreover, the causes of these phenomena must be tackled in a coherent and united manner by the european union. we need more awareness raising, more communication with the citizens, because only together can we succeed. every european official has a duty to bring into the debate where they have been elected what can be done to combat the effects of global warming. artists have already sounded a major alarm, but it's now the politicians' turn to take the reins.
mr president, ukraine is a rich country, a huge market, a dynamic society formed by a large number of citizens, an impressive source of natural richness and a major transit route for energy and basic goods. it is a great european culture and a large territory with a crucial geo-strategic position. we must decide if we want ukraine to be a mere buffer zone behind a parochial european union hiding its structural weaknesses, or an advanced post of a strong, proud, democratic, political union at the contact-point – rather than at the demarcation line – between europe and eurasia, between europe and russia. most ukrainians, irrespective of their political and ideological affiliation understand that only within relations with the european union can their individual, social, national and international security be consolidated. we must tell them in response to their legitimate aspirations and in accordance with our fundamental interests that we are ready to share all our resources and policies with them once the legal, political, legislative, institutional and moral interoperability between ukraine and the european union are in place. we must also tell them that we are ready to consider the possibility of eventually even sharing our institutions with them under the appropriate circumstances and at the right time. for these goals and expectations to be realistic, the european union must bring its institutional reforms to a successful conclusion. at the same time, ukraine must dramatically improve its democratic structures firstly with its check-and-balance mechanisms, separate policy from business, thus freeing public policies from oligarchic control, and bridge the cultural divides between its eastern and western territories. the european union must establish a clear relationship between the internal progress of ukraine and its progress in acceding to the opportunities presented by the european union. the document proposed to us is based on these ideas, therefore it is important to adopt it, thus passing on the right messages to all those concerned.
mr president, i warmly welcome the progress made by ukraine over the past few years to get closer to europe and to our fundamental values. however, we should not disregard the serious problems that the country is facing: corruption is rampant, mutual distrust is strong and the judicial system is dysfunctional and totally discredited. in this context, we must encourage reforms, but ukraine should also ensure that its declarations are followed by practical actions and that deeds follow words. the proof of this is ukraine’s attitude towards romania and bulgaria with regard to visa policy. last month, the eu signed two agreements on visa facilitation and readmission with ukraine. however, i recently learned that our privileged partner refuses to extend visa facilitation to romanian and bulgarian citizens. this is totally unacceptable. ukraine’s authorities may have forgotten that romania and bulgaria are now full members of the european union and, as such, their citizens are entitled to equal treatment. this is a basic principle that ukraine should take on board as soon as possible if it wants to be taken as a serious partner. i therefore call on the council and the commission to commit to their undertaking not to ratify this agreement before ukraine has lifted the visa obligation for the citizens of romania and bulgaria. ukraine must understand that this should be resolved as a matter of urgency or it might wholly jeopardise its credibility. i hope we can expect positive developments for the next september summit.
relations between the european union and ukraine are currently at the threshold of crucial decisions for their future. with romania's accession to the european union, the common border with ukraine has expanded, with both sides becoming increasingly aware of the advantages and opportunities of deeper and strengthened relations. i am grateful to the rapporteur for examining all the key elements in this direction. i would like to point out that a deep and mutually beneficial relationship requires increased responsibility and firm commitment on both sides. i therefore express my hope that ukraine will continue its efforts to conform to european standards and values both domestically and internationally. at home, political stability and the strengthening of democratic principles are a priority. among them, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially of minorities and their rights to speak their language and promote their culture, must be at the core of ukraine's efforts to become a democratic multicultural society, a credible partner of the european union. in order not to speak in general terms, i would like to draw attention to the violation of the rights of the romanian minority in ukraine. the right to education in the country and abroad, the right to culture and religion are seriously violated by the ukrainian state which, at the same time, makes sustained efforts to divide this minority into the romanian and moldovan minorities, without any historical or scientific reason. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. ukraine has already demonstrated its capacity to be a credible and effective partner through its efforts to prepare for accession to the world trade organisation, as well as through cooperation with the european union and moldova in the framework of the european union border assistance mission. the new european union initiative to strengthen regional cooperation in the black sea will finally be a new chance for all actors in the region to join forces in creating an area of democracy, stability and prosperity in the black sea area.
ukraine is at the crossroads of major road, rail and oil transportation. with the highest density of gas and oil pipelines in europe, ukraine is an important player for the european union's energy security. the eu has also provided financial support to the 'central bank of ukraine' in the form of loans and guarantees. in 2007, the high level group decided that the central axis through which the integration of the community transport system with those of neighbouring states would be carried out would be the connection with ukraine and the black sea. this axis also includes a connection through ukraine to the trans-siberian railway and using the don and volga rivers, an inland waterway to the caspian sea. the european union must make the black sea access of romania and bulgaria a success. for romania, the enhanced agreement is extremely important and we ask for assurances that the development of ukraine's river transport infrastructure will be done with the protection of the biodiversity of the danube delta.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to make two comments, the first on the future of ukraine and the second on financial assistance from the european union. the wording used in the kamiński report about the european union perspective is clear and well balanced. there are many important steps ahead that we cannot ignore. we are in an intensive phase of negotiations on the new enhanced agreement. ukraine is in the final phase of wto accession negotiations, which would also open the way for free trade area negotiations. we are talking about visa facilitation, where equal treatment with regard to the requirements of all eu citizens should be taken into account. i know from my own experience that, while democratic reforms are more than necessary in ukraine, it is far from an easy way ahead, so we have to work hard, we have to work together and we have to work with an open mind and open hearts. i also know from my own experience that clear messages of support and readiness to help on the difficult way ahead are of utmost importance for success. the report we are discussing today is sending exactly those signals and important messages about the future of ukraine. my second point concerns financial assistance to ukraine. as you know, ukraine is entering a new phase, the new european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi), and almost eur 500 million over the four-year period 2007-2010 will be granted to help ukraine. if you compare the tacis help from a few years ago, in 2002, to the figure now, in 2007, you will see that it has trebled over that five-year period. however, it is not only a question of technical assistance. now we are upgrading that help and focusing on strengthening good governance, democratic development, regulatory and legal approximation, infrastructure, development, in particular in the field of energy, and modern management, including readmission-related issues. in addition, the extension of the eib mandate to include ukraine means that it will have also access to substantial funds in that area. we in the eu will certainly give financial assistance to help ukraine access these funds. i would like to thank you, the members of the european parliament, for your comments, which show your keen interest in one of our key neighbours. mr kamiński’s report and today’s debate are truly valuable contributions to the eu’s ongoing development of relations with the country. it is important that we work together to encourage ukraine to continue firmly on the path of reform for their benefit and for their future.
in writing. – ukraine is a country with acknowledged european traditions and a significant pawn in the development of a viable regional and intra-regional policy within the enp. significant progress has been recently made in the eu-ukraine relationship, such as the opening of negotiations for a new enhanced agreement and the recently signed agreements on visa facilitation and readmission. the turmoil caused by recent events should not have repercussions in ensuring the continuation of a good relationship in the same framework of partnership in compliance with european democratic principles. i believe ukraine will eventually manage to get out of this current crisis. to ensure that happens, the political class in ukraine should act in line with the provisions of the 27 may agreement: hold the planned early parliamentary elections and amend the existing constitution. i welcome the signing of the declaration of unification of democratic forces and its stated goal to ensure a thriving european future for ukraine and to see democratic forces firm in protecting their rights and dedicated to providing european social-economic standards in ukraine. ukraine should see the kamiński report as an incentive and a message of support from the union. i believe the future agreement should be an association agreement.
in writing. i voted for the piecyk report on a future maritime policy for the union and i congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of the work he has done. integrating maritime policy policies, actions and decisions will ensure closer cooperation between all actors whose actions have an impact on europe's oceans and seas. i also believe that the maritime sectors of european rivers must also be included in the european union's maritime policy. since 2004, motorways of the sea have been among the 30 priority projects of the trans-european transport network. the accession of romania and bulgaria ensures the european union's proximity to the black sea and almost the entire danube river within it. for the european union, the development of cooperation in the black sea will be of the utmost importance. the black sea region plays an important role for the european union's energy security and for the expansion of the internal transport market to the european union's neighbouring states. i hope that the european union will include provisions of the community's maritime policy, such as the protection of the environment and biodiversity of coastal and delta or estuary areas, in its neighbourhood policy and in the bilateral agreements it signs with third countries. in this context, i mention the particular importance of protecting the biodiversity of the danube delta.
in writing. i voted for the cramer report and i consider this document to be of particular importance. given that transport contributes between 15% and 30% of co2 emissions, the development of less polluting modes of transport must be a priority at european level. in addition, 70% of the priority transeuropean transport projects are for rail and shipping, minus greenhouse gas generators. the development of high-speed rail passenger transport must be a priority in all the countries of the european union. the investment in transport infrastructure and upgrading the rolling stock is very high, but the benefits will be proportionate. the development and implementation of the ertms system will also be essential for the development of rail transport. i congratulate the rapporteur and wish to assure him that we have very high expectations of rail transport.
in writing. transport is essential for the economic development of all regions of the european union, creating jobs, ensuring the free movement of people and goods and developing businesses. the european union's inland waterway of the rhine, the main and the danube shortens the distance between the north-west and south-east of the european union by almost 4000 kilometres, while ensuring the development of a less polluting mode of transport. i hope that the naiades and marco polo ii programmes will further support member states in developing their shipping. interoperability, the interconnection of european infrastructure networks and the development of multi-modal terminals will contribute to a balanced development of all modes of transport. but we must not forget that one of the causes of climate change is pollution from transport. it is important that 70% of the 30 priority projects are dedicated to rail and shipping. but i hope that the list of 30 priority projects will soon be extended to include more projects from the new member states and to make the european union's black sea exit a success.
in writing. i voted for the rosati report on the euro area and i congratulate the rapporteur. i believe that the introduction of the euro has brought about greater cohesion among the 318 million citizens of the european union who use this currency in their daily lives. the economic growth achieved and the increase in employment (almost 2 million new jobs) in this area are clear evidence that economic and monetary union has contributed to the macroeconomic stability of the acceding states. i congratulate slovenia on joining the euro area as from 1 january 2007. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of a global financial crisis. better coordination is also needed in the area of exchange rate policy. despite the euro area's performance, total r & d expenditure by euro area countries does not exceed 2% of gdp, which is below the 3% target set by the lisbon strategy. the euro area countries must be a model of economic and social development for the other member states of the european union.
we have generated the debate because we believe that we must not remain unresponsive to a reality that can be a dangerous precedent. a judgment of the european court of human rights is ignored from july 2004 to july 2007. the last two detainees of the ilaşcu group are still being violated human rights, they are beaten, handed over to the moldovan police and prevented from returning to their home in transnistria by so-called authorities not recognized by anyone. we believe that a swift and definitive solution to the conflict in transnistria requires the more active involvement of the commission, the council and the european parliament. the european aspirations proclaimed by the republic of moldova must be accompanied by the creation of a space of democracy and full respect for human rights throughout its territory and this issue must be addressed not only in the negotiation process of the current formula for resolving the conflict, but also in all contacts with officials from moldova and the russian federation. only then will the conclusions of the osce summit in istanbul and the ministerial council in porto and the judgment of the european court of human rights be truly implemented.
when we look at the frozen conflict in transnistria from a global or regional perspective, we tend to say that it is a zone of instability and insecurity under the control of an authoritarian and illegitimate regime. in the daily lives of the people there, this translates into not being able to go to school, not being able to visit your mother or living in a gun-controlled world where only those who want to talk about order and freedom go to prison, we end up being tortured by the so-called authorities themselves. that is why today's debate is very important. we started with an example that has become known worldwide, that of mr. ivanchuk and mr. popa. i want to draw attention to the fact that a silent crowd of people are suffering there without us knowing their names or hearing their desperate voices. the european union needs to be deeply involved in the final settlement of the transnistrian conflict in accordance with international standards. the european union must make the most of all its instruments to make a substantial contribution to the creation of a genuine area of peace and democracy in the eastern neighbourhood, including transnistria. in the daily lives of the people there, that will translate into the right to go to school, to speak freely, to be able to visit your mother.
i have a technical amendment, so that in the text of the resolution the term moldova is replaced by republic of moldova, if, of course, the colleagues agree.
mr president, international terrorism represents the dark side of globalisation. terrorists abuse the democratic freedoms granted by our countries, such as free travel, media coverage and citizens’ rights, to attain their aims through fear and violence against innocent people. addressing this problem calls for an effort to fully uncover and understand the intimate mechanisms of terrorism, including its religious, societal and even civilisational roots. we in the democratic states start with a handicap in this area. while we strive to save lives, terrorists want to cause as many casualties as possible in the hope of being able to manipulate the emotion generated by the images of carnage shown on our television sets. we need to distinguish between the suicide bomber and his or her recruiter. very often, the suicide bomber is not driven by the hate which characterises his or her recruiter, but by the promise of perpetual happiness after an heroic death, which is politically exploited by the recruiter. prevention is better than having to react. to that effect, we need to strike the right balance between the immediate and longer-term requirements of the fight against terrorism. we therefore need to strengthen intelligence, police and judicial cooperation between our states while simultaneously addressing the structural causes of terrorism, especially in the countries providing the most recruits for such acts.
mr president, recently, after decades of political imprisonment, members of the ilaşcu group from the republic of moldova were present in the european parliament, being heard by the subcommittee on human rights. adrian ivanchuk, tudor peter popa and alexander leshko spoke with emotion about the torture endured in transnistrian prisons, about the abuses and repeated violations of human rights that take place here. they called for greater involvement of the european community, a settlement of the conflict in the area, the implementation of all international agreements, including the withdrawal of russian troops from transnistria. in order to put these legitimate wishes into practice, the european parliament should also mobilise and rely on the helsinki committee on human rights, which is proposing concrete actions to support ngos in the republic of moldova, to encourage and support the publication of newspapers and magazines in this area and to propose the construction of a network of broadcasters on the right bank of the nistru river to ensure reception of moldovan national radio and television stations. the european union is also calling for a fundamental change in the way the transnistrian negotiations are currently being conducted, where the european union, and romania as part of it, must change its observer status to full members.
mr. president, my statement is about the rights of romanians in serbia and bulgaria. the territory to the right of the danube, in north-western serbia and north-western bulgaria, comprising in serbia the territory from mount ratan to the danube, from the moravian valley to the timoc valley, and in bulgaria the area of the vidin up to lom, is inhabited mostly by romanians. the number is over 300,000 people, clustered in over 130 small and medium-sized towns and 20 cities. they are not recognized as a national minority, do not receive religious services and education in their native language. in no school is even one hour of romanian taught. the romanian language, literature and history are studied in semi-clandestine conditions, in private homes. the only romanian church erected in the locality of mălăiniţa is subject to demolition. the helsinki committee for human rights in serbia draws attention to the desperate situation of romanians in this area regarding the right to preserve their national identity. i therefore call on the european institutions to investigate the situation as a matter of urgency and to intervene to ensure that the rights of the romanian minority in serbia and bulgaria are respected.
mr president, the treaty on european union defines terrorism in article 29 as a serious crime. actions whose effects endanger human life, incite violence and have the aim of intimidating the population are qualified by the treaty on european union as terrorist offences. what happened in budapest on the occasion of the official establishment of the hungarian guard fits this definition. the leader of the hungarian guard made statements that were at least surprising, expressing concern about romania and slovakia, two countries with ethnic hungarian communities, that could attack hungary. i believe that such extremist organizations and actions encourage separatist movements among minorities who already have autonomous tendencies, which is not in line with the rules of good behaviour of a member state of the european union. such organizations must be disbanded, and attitudes similar to those expressed by the hungarian guard must be prohibited and punished by law. i would ask the heads of the institutions of the european union to firmly condemn such attitudes and to ask the fundamental rights agency to draw up a report on what has happened and to monitor the situation of minorities in hungary.
mr president, on 18 october 2007 the european commission will launch the european day against trafficking in human beings. i would like to welcome this initiative which will bring to the attention of european citizens this sensitive, largely unknown subject, which affects approximately two and a half million people a year. i would like to emphasize once again that effective coordination of action by the member states is essential if we are to achieve results in the fight against this phenomenon. at present, national legislation in this field does not allow this. however, the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings of 2005 is the most comprehensive legal instrument available to member states to combat trafficking in human beings. but we note that, so far, only 18 of the 27 member states have signed this convention and only 3 member states have ratified it. i therefore ask the european commission to request a mandate from the council of ministers to sign, on behalf of all the member states of the european communities, this council of europe convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings. mr president, human trafficking is a serious violation of human rights. it is time to move from talk to action, to act to facilitate the punishment of traffickers and to protect the rights of victims, victims who end up being sold and resold, treated like slaves in a modern europe on which we all pride ourselves on respecting human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the romanian government has decided to fix the date of the european parliament elections on 25 november 2007. on that day, we will witness what i would call a historic moment: the direct election of the european parliament by the citizens of romania. it will be a test of our seriousness and of our assumption of membership of the european union. the election campaign should give us the chance to hold debates in romania on topics of interest to the european union. the future of the union, the constitutional treaty, future enlargement, internal reform, making the european institutions more efficient, free access to the labour market. these should be the topics that should be debated during the election campaign, and not politicians' topics, without coverage in the real agenda of the citizen: early elections, motions of censure, political attacks without real basis. in order to increase the quality of the debates in the pre-election period and the election campaign, i call on experienced meps, regardless of their political family, to visit romania in the period leading up to the elections, in order to include on the agenda of the campaign for the european parliament those topics with european resonance that must be the subject of consistent and serious debates in romania and in other european countries.
romania has undertaken by the treaty of accession to the european union to hold elections to the european parliament by the end of this year. the original date of the elections for the european parliament, 13 may, has unfortunately been postponed by the romanian government until 25 november. analysts say the main reason was that some parties, including those now in power, feared the outcome of the election. an old romanian proverb says that "you don't get away with what you're afraid of". the romanian government is not only afraid of elections, but unfortunately, it is also afraid of women. there are no women in the current cabinet, the first of its kind in any eu member state. of the 35 current meps nominated to the european parliament, 12 are women. after the november elections, political parties will need to be able to change the gender ratio, to send a minimum of 18 women to the european parliament. i would like to assure you that the democratic party, as a member of the european people's party, will do so. i would like to remind the prime minister of romania that romania has been a member of the european union since 1 january 2007 and that 2007 is the european year of equal opportunities.
mr president, this summer europe has had a tragic experience because of the natural disaster in greece: loss of human life and loss of thousands of hectares of forest, which will have a very negative ecological and economic impact. the european union's intervention has been in the form of operational human and material assistance and i hope that the experience gained will contribute to the future of european civil protection. the reality is that it is indeed necessary to create and permanently maintain a european rapid reaction force. this structure should include response teams for the different forms of natural disasters and be organised in regional centres to reduce response time. a mechanism for the rapid release of the amounts allocated from the solidarity fund is urgently needed. in addition to the devastating fires this summer, europe has also experienced extreme drought in the east, particularly in romania, and in recent years, catastrophic floods that have affected many countries. during 2005, romania experienced the worst floods in 20 years, affecting all counties in the country. romania has received financial support from the european union for projects in flood-affected areas, but the release of funds has been delayed from when it would have been most effective. this summer, romania's record of abnormally high temperatures has seen deaths, hundreds of people faint, the danube river half-dried after flooding tens of thousands of hectares last year, 10 counties declared disaster zones and, for the first time, a red alert. it is very clear that a common approach by member states to climate change is needed. the commission on climate change needs to reach clear conclusions on the causes and the measures needed to eliminate them as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, the spring european council proposed to reduce community and national bureaucracy by 25% by 2012. member states must develop a plan to quantify and reduce administrative costs, avoiding over-regulation in the transposition of community acts into national law. for better regulation, priority should be given to proposals to simplify legislation, reduce the number of regulations and retain only those regulations that are absolutely necessary. non-binding legislative instruments must be drawn up with the involvement of democratic institutions, used with caution and without replacing community legislation where it is required. for legislation to be easy to understand and apply, impact studies and stakeholder consultation are indispensable, especially for the social impact of legislative proposals. information technology should be used to reduce the administrative burden and to ensure transparency in the legislative process. the future european treaty will enable the citizens of the european union, through their national parliaments, to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected in legislative proposals.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, an analysis of the development of the single market, this major objective of european construction, 50 years after its inception, can only be salutary. although there has certainly been some progress in this area, some significant, the project still falls seriously behind the proposed programmes. the situation is regrettable given that this important instrument of solidarity, which contains the four fundamental freedoms, the free movement of persons, goods, capital and services, does not contribute in a consistent way to the process of defining the european project. without going into the problem of building the single market in a very analytical way, i am convinced that the achievement of this objective will continue to face difficulties for at least three reasons. the gap between the varying degrees of functionality and efficiency of national markets: in theory, all economies based on free market relations are functional; in practice, however, the functioning of a market is determined by a complex of political, economic, social, cultural and, in particular, historical factors which give it the character of a functioning or less functioning market, a difference which has adverse effects on the construction of the single market. protectionist measures introduced by certain states, especially those with developed economies, are preventing the less developed markets from progressing, and this abuse of economic power significantly diminishes their right to benefit from the effects of competition, an essential democratic element of the single market. finally, the absence of common legal provisions, particularly in the field of taxation, also has negative effects on the construction of the single market, given that taxation heterogeneity could be a source of tension between member states. i support the report, but i think that for it to be more consistent, it would also be necessary to analyse the national markets of the less developed economies, especially those of the newly joined countries such as romania, so that, depending on the results, measures can be introduced to bring them closer to the developed economies, a sine qua non of the construction of the european single market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the internal market is an essential factor in european integration. but it must not be seen as an end in itself, to which the social consequences are irrelevant. with the latest enlargement of the european union, it has become much more economically heterogeneous than in the past. this heterogeneity can be seen as an advantage for certain neoliberal policies. not for all citizens. competition is for firms, solidarity is for people, as jacques delors said. in addition to its undoubted merits, the toubont report also has some weaknesses in this respect. in theory, we support the lisbon strategy, an economy based on knowledge and highly skilled jobs, where comparative advantage cannot be cheap labour. however, the report states that a major way to increase the competitiveness of businesses is the mobility of workers, which should be encouraged. as socialists, we believe that the removal of all barriers to the free movement of people and labour is a fundamental right enshrined in the treaties. however, encouraging mobility for purely economic reasons already has serious social consequences in the workers' countries of origin, in addition to real income inflows, the loss of specialists and skilled labour, depopulation and the decline in the active population, thousands of children living without parents and requiring special educational and social services. the long-term social and human costs are not yet known. we are calling for a study on this subject, because economic measures must never undermine social. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, economic and social cohesion and solidarity are essential for the european union. the structural funds contribute to the development of all european regions and are especially important for the new member states. we need not only an economic union with the most dynamic knowledge-based economy, but also a social europe, from which no one is excluded and in which public services are of high quality and accessible to all of the union's almost 500 million citizens. we need health and education, we need a sustainable social protection system. transport, energy and communications are essential for the union's economic development, but access to these services must be ensured for all. e-government and the development of financial services are essential for the transparency and quality of public services and must also ensure consumer protection in the digital environment. we hope that the restrictions on access to the community labour market for romanian and bulgarian workers will be removed. non-discriminatory access to the european labour market is thus important to ensure equal working conditions and to avoid social dumping.
in writing. the lisbon strategy requires investment in research to be 3% of each member state's gdp, with two thirds coming from the private sector. only a very small number of european regions have achieved this. in 2004, 42% of european enterprises had research activities, but member states invested only 1.84% of gdp in research. in 2006, 35% of the eu's workforce worked in science and technology. education is essential for the future of the union. it must be accessible to all, rich and poor, urban and rural. the quality of european education must be measured by the graduation rate and the rate of admission to the next level of education. we need a new social europe, where investment in its citizens must take priority. as the eu and its member states adopt their budgets for 2008 in the autumn, i call for investment in education and research to be given priority in the eu.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, between 1995 and 2004 freight transport grew by 28% and by 2020 it is expected to increase by 50%. freight transport is carried by 58% on the road system, 25% on the rail system and 17% on inland waterways. dangerous goods account for 8% of the volume of cargo transported. this type of transport presents a high risk to the regions in transit and therefore the european union must take measures to increase the safety of this type of transport. the existing legislation in the european union covers only the transport of dangerous goods by road and rail, while for maritime transport there are only international conventions to which the member states are parties. with the accession of romania and bulgaria, almost the entire danube becomes an inland waterway. the danube passes through seven european capitals and many urban agglomerations, and therefore the safety of dangerous goods transport on the danube is of utmost importance. i believe it is essential that measures concerning the transport of dangerous goods should be supplemented by measures concerning the intervention of emergency services in accidents involving such transport. often there are large numbers of casualties, even among those who have to intervene in the event of an accident. in addition, the transport of dangerous goods should take place at times and on less congested routes so that the associated risks are also minimised. i consider that the safety of the transport of dangerous goods requires a transitional period as short as possible for the implementation of this directive.
mr president, commissioner, the member states must ensure a favourable climate for the development of freight transport logistics and remove bottlenecks. for both shippers and customers, it is extremely important that products arrive on time and under the agreed conditions. by 2020, freight transport is expected to increase by 50%. freight logistics account for 13% of the union's gross domestic product and 10-15% of the final cost of products is due to transport logistics. the member states must therefore facilitate the transport of goods and the rules they impose and the checks they carry out must be based on common rules, without introducing barriers to the free movement of goods. these rules must be communicated as a matter of priority to all the carriers concerned so that they can comply with the regulations and fulfil their contractual obligations. ..(president interrupts speaker) the european union must make greater use of less polluting means of transport. it is no coincidence that 70% of the priority projects for the development of the european transport network are dedicated to rail and maritime transport. unfortunately, member states have used the marco polo programme to a very limited extent to transfer as much freight as possible from the road to the sea. the waterway of the rhine, the main and the danube shortens the distance between north-west and south-east europe by almost 4 000 kilometres. in addition, since 2007, the european union has had an outlet to the black sea. for freight logistics, intelligent transport systems and the use of technology are becoming indispensable. however, freight transport needs good transport infrastructure and we therefore hope that in future budgets for both community and national transport projects will become a priority. i consider this report to be extremely important for the economic development of the european union. member states need to do more for freight logistics. i congratulate the reporter.
mr president, this dossier is welcome because logistics is the key to economic development, and transport and mobility are the engines of sustainable development and must respond to the imperative challenges of the moment, namely the need to decongest traffic and combat climate change. between the need for sustainable economic development and the need to reduce pollution, logistics, planning, the exchange of good practice and effective cooperation between all the actors involved - authorities, producers, transporters, beneficiaries - are the only viable solutions. both carriers and beneficiaries currently prefer the speed of road and air transport. unfortunately, the extreme heat this summer has led to heavy vehicle restrictions in some regions, such as romania, disrupting freight traffic and causing economic losses. in these circumstances, rail transport, and in particular inland waterways and short sea shipping, as well as convenience, have clear advantages in reducing the pressure on road infrastructure. it is imperative to reopen the debate on the under-financing of the trans-european transport networks, as national financial efforts, however substantial and well-intentioned, are proving insufficient to realise these massive european infrastructure investments, especially in the case of the new member states. the commission must take account of and allocate more funds from 2008. i stress the importance of the rapporteur's recommendation to the member states to draw up the national action plan for freight transport logistics, linked to the overall european action plan. i believe that these national plans must give importance to cross-border transport to and from third countries and to the safety of cargoes. these plans can successfully contribute to improving the management of priorities and the absorption of structural and cohesion funds for the improvement and expansion of transport infrastructure, as well as to better cross-border coordination of ten and marco polo projects.
in 2006, low-cost airlines opened 225 new european routes, which means 1 800 new flights a week. fragmentation of airspace at national level with specific operational rules and procedures can have negative effects on the safety of transport capacity, the introduction of new technologies and costs. when switching from one air sector to another, pilots change frequencies and contact the next air traffic controller. air traffic control has become a critical element. it is important that the new functional blocks are implemented after consultation with all stakeholders and that member states have concrete actions to achieve comprehensive management. investment is also needed in more efficient aircraft and related airport infrastructure. the accession of romania and bulgaria adds new functional blocks to community airspace, relevant both for the black sea region and for cooperation in the balkans.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i understand and share the impatience of parliament. i will answer very briefly but very specifically: you will have a report in october 2007 and a second legislative package in mid-2008. so there is more to it! we shall therefore be addressing this problem together in a precise way. secondly, i have probably told you about a coordinator, a high-level political figure who will facilitate the implementation of these operational blocks between the member states. i must say that the results obtained in the transeuropean networks make me think that this method will also be useful in strengthening our action in the area of our concern. to the third question, i want to answer by cesar, because cesar exists, it is now a joint venture. this joint venture brings together all the actors, all the operators and i think that the arrival of cesar will shake up all those bad habits that locked us in airspace delimited by national borders that no longer make sense today. so, mr president, i am very much in favour of the question put by mr costa and developed by mr savary and i have listened carefully to parliament's requests. i'm willing to do whatever it takes to meet them.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, forced labour and trafficking for labour exploitation are gross violations of fundamental rights and we are fully committed to preventing and combating such crimes. according to estimates from international labour organisations, in 2005 there were at least 12.3 million people in forced labour worldwide. about a fifth of these have been trafficked. trafficking for labour exploitation is mostly an organised crime business and creates an estimated 12 billion dollars per year. we also know that trafficking is still a low-risk crime. european strategy aims to move it from being low-risk, high-reward to high-risk, low-reward. an integrated strategy against trafficking for labour exploitation is needed which comprises prevention, prosecution, protection and assistance to victims. the commission will play the role of facilitator to establish a network of all the stakeholders and institutions involved in a preventive strategy. first of all, labour inspection services, employers’ organisations, trade unions. in relation to prevention, the major goal is ensuring the respect of labour laws in all the work places and therefore fighting against illegal labour, especially in the sectors which are more at risk, including agriculture, construction, food-processing and domestic work. i am also committed to developing new legislation on combating trafficking in human beings and labour exploitation of migrant workers. the recent proposal for a directive providing for sanctions against employers of illegally resident third country nationals is an example. this proposal aims at fighting more effectively the exploitation of migrant workers through dissuasive administrative sanctions and through penal sanctions in the most serious cases, including trafficking, and where particularly exploitative working conditions are found. investigation and prosecution should become more effective. law enforcement officials should fully apply the legislation against trafficking in the field of labour exploitation, including legislation complying with the framework decision on trafficking and the directive on residence permits for victims of trafficking. as national good practice shows, measures to provide assistance for trafficked persons are crucial to protect their fundamental rights and simultaneously promote successful prosecution. the granting of assistance, residence status and support to find a better alternative for labour and life will secure the cooperation of trafficked persons in criminal proceedings and make it easier to punish the perpetrators. in conclusion, on the occasion of the first anti-trafficking day on 18 october next, the commission will draw up recommendations with and for member states on identification and support of victims – first of all vulnerable categories like children – based on close cooperation between law enforcement, prosecutors’ offices and ngos and other service providers.
madam president, allow me to thank commissioner frattini for his reply. in the meantime, since i raised this question, i also had a meeting with his excellency and discussed more fully the aspects of human trafficking. i particularly appreciate the commitment of the european commission and the commissioner personally to combating this phenomenon and i am pleased that on 18 october the european commission will launch concrete actions to stop this phenomenon. including those that his lordship mentioned with the introduction of criminal sanctions for serious cases of black-collar employment could be the subject of this day. i would like to ask whether the commissioner intends, on behalf of the european commission, to request a mandate from the council of ministers to sign, on behalf of the european communities, the council of europe convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings, which is a very effective legal instrument to combat the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings.
member of the commission. there is no specific subdivision now, but as you know from the legal base we have the programme is divided into four main pillars concerning lifelong learning: erasmus, comenius, leonardo da vinci and grundtvig, plus horizontal actions or transfer selections. one could more or less say the same about research and development and cooperation, but it is very important that partners – institutions – engage themselves in areas which are close to humanities, to cultural awareness, to nurturing of values. so, in a concrete sense, for example, we support, in the lifelong learning programme, the european standing conference of history teachers’ association, and it is important that such an association exists, that it complies with the rules, that it is eligible, and then we can provide support. i will not encourage divergence or too much separation of the soft sciences and hard sciences. civic education comprises basic competences plus the very horizontal natures of skills, knowledge and attitudes that are needed not only for the labour market, but also for living together in a more and more diverse community and at local, regional or european level.
member of the commission. madam president, in 2000, the millennium year, 17.6% of the population aged between 18 and 24 had not gone beyond lower secondary education. by last year, 2006, the level had fallen to 15.3%. six new member states had already beaten our 2010 benchmark, which is 10%. under article 149, as i previously mentioned, this is the full responsibility of member states. the content and organisation of education is the competence of member states. our role is to support and supplement the action of member states. we have done this in a number of ways. i will mention just some. in particular, the commission has supported the development of the evidence base on which policy measures can be built, sponsoring a number of studies around this problem. further, last year, in our 2006 communication on efficiency and equity in european education and training systems, the commission stressed the importance of pre-primary, pre-school, education as an effective means to reduce school drop-out rates, and pointed to the dangers of tracking pupils too early. the commission has also launched a public consultation process quite recently on the modernisation of school education. this includes seeking the views of stakeholders on how best to tackle early school-leaving. in the framework of the analysis of the lisbon national reforms programme, the commission issued specific recommendations to member states about early school-leaving, where it was deemed necessary. through the education training 2010 work programme, it has used the open method of coordination to develop good practice and peer learning on early school-leaving. member states have also been encouraged to make use of the structural funds for targeted interventions to tackle particularly high rates of early school-leaving and to participate in projects funded under the lifelong learning programme, which addresses this issue. in conclusion, progress has been visible and measurable, but not yet enough, and we need to really continue and improve the dynamics.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your reply. while education is the responsibility of the member states, the commission must be involved in securing the future of the european union. recommendations are part of the non-binding legislation. the european commission should explicitly ask member states to develop action plans to combat school drop-out. the european union needs qualified human resources. it is unacceptable for young people from poor families or from rural areas to drop out of school because of financial circumstances. the union's population is ageing and increasing labour productivity is necessary to ensure the sustainability of social protection systems. commissioner, my question is: what measures are you taking to support member states in providing financial support for those children who deserve to continue their education, especially those from poor families and from rural areas? it is a real problem and we are talking about the future of europe.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur. the report's findings are intended to reduce the harm caused by alcohol and to protect the health and well-being of eu citizens, as we all know that alcohol is one of the most dangerous causes of illness and premature death in europe, while also causing a number of social problems. i appreciate that the emphasis is on reducing harmful effects of alcohol on the consumer and on third parties, vulnerable social groups such as children, young people and pregnant women. added to this are social ills such as domestic violence, child neglect, unemployment, and social exclusion. the importance of education, campaigning and information activities to prevent dangerous and harmful alcohol consumption, as well as the exchange of good practice at european level, are all important elements in reducing the harmful effects of alcohol. the overall approach of the report has succeeded in highlighting the key issues of alcohol consumption in the european union and represents an important step in the fight against excessive consumption.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, drinking is a habit that is passed down from generation to generation. in many lands there is a tradition of drinking exclusively by men. there are few approaches to reducing the harmful effects of hazardous and harmful alcohol consumption on children and pregnant women. alcohol has a larger and more diverse consumer base than tobacco, and artisanal manufacturing techniques, which means uncontrolled marketing methods and tailored risks. in this case, it is appropriate that article 16 of the report should support the use of inventive means of communication and information on alcohol consumption. on the other hand, the combination of the warning method with the tobacco-like warning method on alcoholic products cannot be regarded as innovative until such time as this method has sufficiently demonstrated its effectiveness in the case of tobacco products. a european study is needed on the influences of this warning procedure on heavy drinkers of all ages, occupations and sexes, and on the internal market. the european parliament must promote a resolution without ambiguity, and allow time for the development of other communication and information methods, so as to give the member states an effective framework for combating alcohol abuse and drinking alcohol in moderation and with responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the simplification of the common market in milk is, from the perspective of the new member states, a welcome initiative which brings the european union closer to the real needs of farmers. this is done primarily by liberalising the production and marketing of milk. this is especially good news for countries whose farmers have to invest far too much to produce only one of the three categories of milk accepted so far. i do not think that under the current market conditions farmers could have adapted their production until 2009, when the transition period ends. in addition, the european union does not have to dictate the content of dairy products, as long as phytosanitary rules are respected. that is why i am in full support of the liberalization measure. secondly, i am in favour of introducing a single rate of milk subsidy in schools. this is an important measure that will contribute to social cohesion in europe, as it favours poorer regions, and to the fight against obesity among young people. the commission proposes that the grant should be increased so that schools and kindergartens are not burdened with the obligation to co-finance part of the money. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. european money can contribute to the quality of programmes and products distributed to pupils and will eliminate important budgetary resources of the member states, which can be used for youth policies. i also support the creation of a european milk market restructuring fund. it must also include a financing line for quality improvement, without which many farmers in the new member states will no longer be able to sell their produce after 2009. last but not least, we must see the changes to the common market organisation in the wider context of the common agricultural policy's health control. i believe that the time has come for a restructuring of the common market in dairy products, aimed at abolishing the milk quota system.
madam president, terrorism is a complex phenomenon with a long history, which has taken on many different forms, from subversive movements to suppress the sovereignty of states and overthrow internal order, to the outbreak of civil wars, to bombings, assassinations and pogroms. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a step in the right direction. the attacks of 11 september, followed by other terrorist acts, tens of thousands of victims and immense material damage, require concerted, systematic and permanent action by the whole of society, the states and the european institutions as a whole, on several fronts, including: 1. objective research into the causes of this phenomenon and its permanent exacerbation. 2. identifying sources of financing of terrorist acts and transnational political and financial entanglements. 3. establishing the relationship between the phenomenon of terrorism as such, arms policy and wars for strategic raw materials, wars which are used as a cover for the fight against terrorism. any unilateral approach to the problem of terrorism does nothing to help us know the truth and to strangle this dangerous transnational phenomenon.
this debate is extremely important to us because it gives us the opportunity to examine here the consistency and coherence of our policies against terrorism. we have enough evidence today to say that the success of these policies is conditioned by the close relationship between a few key elements. on the one hand, measures relating to security and justice in the european union, the right balance between these measures and respect for fundamental human rights, on the other hand, the external dimension of the european union's policy and, at home, the fight against social exclusion, the social causes of terrorism. in our view, action is not enough without prevention, internal measures are not enough without a consistent external dialogue. the right mix of these elements should be the basis of a european counter-terrorism model, one that guarantees the security of the citizens of the union, but at the same time their fundamental rights. we must admit that there is a deficit today in the relationship between the european parliament, between its legislative power and the fight against terrorism, which leads to a democratic deficit. to be able to play an effective role in the decision-making process at european level, we need the full involvement of parliament in the co-decision procedure. i would like to call on the council to expedite the process of selecting a new counterterrorism coordinator with increased powers to implement agreed strategies.
terrorism is a continuing threat in a europe where muslim extremism is increasingly common. the european union must take concrete action to counter this threat and establish a coherent strategy common to all member states. future legislative proposals by the commission, which are indirectly related to this phenomenon, should include provisions that contribute to preventing the spread and escalation of terrorist acts. an example of this is the legislative package on legal and illegal migration. the european institutions which have included this attribution among their responsibilities must find, without delay, the way to work together effectively on the basis of trust and the exchange of information. the smooth functioning of the european information centre will depend on mutual trust between the member states. in addition to the measures adopted at european level, each state must make its own contribution to making joint action to combat all forms of terrorism more effective. member states such as romania, where islamic terrorism is not considered a threat, need to be as vigilant as other european countries facing this threat. these countries must receive information and be involved in joint programmes at european level to help prevent both the causes and the situations that generate terrorist acts. we must not only act to prevent or detect acts of terrorism, but also identify and combat the factors that foster it, such as poverty, social exclusion or extremism. interfaith dialogue can make a substantial and decisive contribution to reducing the phenomenon of terrorism. religious leaders must make this a priority and get involved in ensuring the peace, stability and well-being of the communities they serve. the european ecumenical assembly taking place these days in sibiu, romania, is a good example of this. european citizens must become aware of the danger posed by terrorism. a campaign to raise awareness and highlight all the issues that can lead to conflict should involve citizens, together with the institutions, in the joint effort to eliminate this phenomenon.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, global warming is a threat whose long-term effects are devastating. we have seen this summer the effects of the heat wave in greece and other european countries, the floods in britain, the extreme drought in romania. the effects of global warming have become increasingly visible for romania in dobrogea, the southern plain or the western sands. as a result of global warming, romania will be among the countries that will feel the most severe weather changes in 2015, along with spain, greece and italy. almost a quarter of romania's territory will become arid in the next 20 years and many plant crops here will disappear. so the effects of desertification are already visible. romania's situation is not unique in the european union and therefore we need to act together on the basis of the principle of solidarity which is at the heart of european integration. assessments of the united nations convention to combat desertification, 10 years after its entry into force, show that desertification trends are continuing to increase, while the response of states is lacking. if measures are not taken to eliminate the negative factors, desertification will become irreversible or will entail incalculable costs of ecological rebalancing. ladies and gentlemen, it is easier to prevent desertification than to remove it. effective crop management, increased attention to irrigation, and strategies to provide non-agricultural jobs for people in drylands could be solutions to prevent desertification. to ensure that efforts to combat desertification are effective, we need integrated development strategies at national, regional and international levels. at the same time, the implementation of the convention must be closely linked to efforts to limit climate change. in view of the above, i would also like to ask the commission whether it intends to announce a change, a nuance of strategy, at the madrid conference and to assume new obligations on behalf of the european union in implementing the convention, taking into account the accession of the latter countries.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i welcome the drafting of this report, which is of major importance for the future of the european union's dialogues and consultations with third countries, and for the role of the european parliament. the european union is first and foremost a union of democratic values that promotes peace, tolerance and respect for human rights. it is therefore crucial that any dialogue we initiate and conduct with third countries should emphasise the need to guarantee and protect fundamental freedoms and human rights, not only in europe but also worldwide. the aim of this report is to propose solutions to improve the functioning of the european union's dialogues and consultations with third countries in the field of human rights. in this respect, the report focuses on three concepts for increasing efficiency: the coherence of dialogues and consultations, their transparency and visibility. the european parliament's more active involvement in this process is equally important. i believe that the european parliament has a legitimate right to participate in these dialogues, to exercise the democratic control which is ultimately entrusted to it by the citizens of europe themselves. i thank the rapporteur for his openness to my proposal to include in the report the dialogue with the countries of the european union's eastern neighbourhood. the european union's foreign policy has as its top priority the creation of a genuine democratic space on our eastern border, and the human rights dialogue must be seen as a very important instrument in this direction. the creation of joint subcommittees on human rights would be an important step forward, including in neighbouring countries where there is a continuing deterioration in the human rights situation. now i would like to point out that, although not part of the neighbourhood policy, russia is another eastern partner that should finally accept that an open dialogue on human rights can only lead to a better life for its own citizens. i do not want to end without pointing out with satisfaction the attention paid to women's rights in this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the statement that women's rights are an integral part of human rights could be considered repetitive because it would be assumed by implication. reality shows us that they are often just explicitly ignored. we recently inventoried here the backlog in achieving the millennium development goals in which women are the target group but also the key factors in accelerating the process. in the excellent report by elena valenciano, the commission and the council are called upon to take gender into account in their dialogue with partner countries. but a dialogue has at least two parts, one of which is us. we believe that the effectiveness of measures to promote and defend women's rights and to monitor their implementation also depends on the sensitivity of the european side, our institutions and governments to gender issues. it is conditional on achieving its own objectives set out in the gender equality roadmap. we do not need to invent sophisticated indicators to see that there are governments in the european union that have no women in their composition or others that uncritically defend traditions and practices that violate women's rights. we know that the decision to open a human rights dialogue is taken on the basis of criteria set by the council when certain situations are considered to be of concern in the partner country. even on the optimistic side, that all members of the council are supporters of women's rights, i wonder what kind of example we are setting for a country that is being asked to take action on representation in political structures. the observation is unfortunately also valid for the european parliament, where there is still a great reservation about the reform of its own structures to include a balanced gender representation. we call on the european institutions and the member states to be consistent in their statements and deeds. it is also necessary to maintain coherence between community policies and instruments so as not to interfere negatively with women's empowerment measures in partner countries. it's important to talk about them, but more important to let them speak to improve the political climate, the peace process and reduce corruption around the world.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my appreciation for the way in which mrs patrie has drafted her report. please, ma'am, take my compliments. i believe that the revision of the community acquis in the field of consumer protection is necessary not only because of the evolution of the european market and the relationship between producers and consumers, but also because of the problems arising from the enlargement of the european union. in this last respect, i would like to point out a negative situation which is manifested in the way consumer protection is provided in the new member states. i would like to point out the shortcomings and the long delays in the registration of goods in the languages of the newest member states, which became official languages of the european union on 1 january 2007. the vast majority of goods imported from the european union into romania, for example, do not have labels in the romanian language, which seriously harms the consumer in terms of information about quality, characteristics, use and warranty terms. i think it is discrimination against a part of the population of the european union, which is unable to orient its consumption on the basis of correct information. i therefore believe that the process of reviewing the acquis in the field of consumer protection must also take this aspect into account, with a view to eliminating as quickly as possible this gap in the way all european consumers are protected, irrespective of the member state in which they are resident.
in preparing this report, for which we congratulate béatrice patrie, we have discussed at length the degree of harmonisation and the nature of the instruments needed to ensure more effective consumer protection. in many cases, however, it was clear that the existing weaknesses were not due to the limits of the european legal framework, but to the lack of implementation, or its inadequate copy-paste transposition, into national legislation. unfortunately, better regulation will not provide greater security if it is not enforced, or is poorly enforced. there are significant gaps between member states in the level of information and awareness of consumer rights and in the skills to use existing tools. law enforcement and consumer organizations have different levels of effectiveness. these gaps do not overlap the usual old-state-new-state division, but are instead due to local traditions and practices. high consumer vulnerability creates the risk that one country's market becomes a trading venue for poor quality or dangerous goods from other countries, thus accentuating scepticism about the benefits of the single market. we call on the commission to ensure that the law is properly applied and that existing rules are respected and to continue to inform citizens. a consumer who is aware of his rights is also an asset for the single market itself, since he can make a fair selection among the market's bidders, turning competition into a factor of progress. we also point out that we live in a service society. the green paper's proposals sometimes give the impression that the rules only concern trade in goods. electronic commerce is also excluded for the purpose of the review. we ask the commission to take these aspects into account in the preparation of future projects, since the invisible nature of goods, called services, puts the consumer in a more vulnerable situation than in the case of goods. since it does not have the technical competence to verify the quality of services, it needs the legal framework to protect it.
madam president, commissioner, the european union cannot rely on economic criteria alone. europe must also be built on the social agenda of the citizen. most of the time, we turn to phone services, transportation services, financial services, health services, education services. we need to define quality criteria for public services. we cannot develop the european economy if public transport for passengers between two places does not exist because it is not economically viable. the new roaming regulation is also a success story. consumer protection also means that every citizen or family in the union has a minimum daily bread basket. how do we protect pensioners, how do we protect children, how do we protect disabled people or disadvantaged segments of the population in an internal market if it were based on economic criteria alone? despite the legislation in force, citizens of the european union, as consumers, do not know their rights and cannot therefore defend them. passengers are unaware that they can and do not claim financial compensation in the event of flight delays or cancellations. i hope that these compensations will be introduced for other transport systems. i also welcome the rapporteur's request for a black list of prohibited clauses and a grey list of allegedly unfair clauses that may appear when a contract is concluded to be drawn up at eu level. in addition, it is imperative that citizens, as consumers, are better informed. how do we protect a member of an investment fund from the shareholder's decision to invest in types of businesses that he doesn't fundamentally agree with? and because most europeans consume information society products, i call on the european commission to develop as a matter of urgency a strategy and action plan to ensure the security of information society systems and services. i congratulate the reporter.
member of the commission. madam president, i am trying to organise my speech in the best way to touch upon all the important issues, and i am very thankful for your very valuable input in this debate. i am also glad that many european citizens are listening to this very important matter for our everyday lives – the so-called ‘green paper’, which perhaps sounds a little distant. but when you realise that we are surrounded by consumer contracts, starting early in the morning when we buy a cup of coffee – this is already a consumer contract – you can see how important what we are debating today is to the citizens’ agenda of the european union. i am very grateful that you are all so dedicated to making the language really understandable and close to the citizens. let me start with a few remarks about the general issues you touched upon. firstly, concerning the scope of the review: i am very sympathetic towards a more open review of the acquis, but we have already stipulated that the commission agrees that it should, in principle, be limited to the eight directives covered by the green paper. so any legislative follow-up instrument would need to clarify its relationship with other community instruments. the commission will evaluate the need for and the timing of a report on the e-commerce directive. i fully agree, when we are talking about means for european consumers, that it is very important to tackle this issue, but this does not really fall within the scope of this review. normally, i am very ambitious as a politician and as the commissioner for consumer protection, but i do not believe that we can include the e-commerce directive within the scope of this revision at the moment. a number of consumer protection directives, such as directive 97/7/ec on the protection of consumers in respect of distance contracts, applies to consumer contracts concluded by electronic means and, indeed, the e-commerce directive clearly states that it is without prejudice to the level of protection for consumer interests as established by community acts, including the consumer acquis. in this respect, the e-commerce directive can be reviewed separately from the review of the consumer acquis, and i assure you that i will follow this subject very closely with fellow commissioner mccreevy, within whose portfolio lies the e-commerce directive. i also believe that we have achieved a good understanding within the commission that the consumer dimension should be seen in many other portfolios, not just within the portfolio of the commissioner for consumer protection. so i am involved in the third energy package, which will be produced by the end of this month; i am also involved with the internal market review, and commissioner mccreevy and are co-authors on the financial services review. i will not drop the very important consumer dimension from my attention. we also see, from infso, the success of the work related to the enhanced consumer confidence in roaming, and this is just the beginning. many of you have referred to the level of consumer protection. let me reiterate that the commission’s emphasis on proposals for full harmonisation will be based on a high level of consumer protection. a ‘race to the bottom’ approach is therefore clearly excluded. however, it is not anticipated that such proposals would be based on the highest level of consumer protection, which has been achieved by some national legislations. i agree with ms wallis that we should have an accessible and understandable set of rules, which means that we will look at how we can implement these rules in all the 27 member states. this issue will definitely not be ‘raced to the bottom’. with due respect to those member states that exercise best practice, believe me, there is no ideal country in respect to consumer protection. i have visited half the member states. i took stock from the most advanced countries and, again, some of them failed to transpose the directive on unfair commercial practices. i will show you the scoreboard on the implementation of the directive on unfair commercial practices and you will be surprised that even the champions of consumer protection failed in the transposition of this particular directive. concerning the common frame of reference (cfr), as ms wallis knows, this project is dear to my heart and the commission agrees with the european parliament on the need to ensure coherence between the work on the preparation of the cfr and the review of the consumer acquis. as the european parliament correctly points out, it is essential that the review of the acquis is not delayed by cfr work, which is a more long-term project. i look forward to working on this issue to take more stock of what is the experience, seminar after seminar, but i believe that the green paper is a test. if we achieve the targeted full harmonisation through the green paper, this promises that we can work on a good common contractual base for the future. i really believe in the future of this project. as regards the need to ensure effective publication of consumer protection rules and adequate information to consumers – points 42, 43 and 47 – the commission underlines that the recent initiatives in this area are expected to yield results in the near future. i would like to draw attention to point 6; the application of the future instrument, once adopted, would have to be evaluated in order to assess its effectiveness. this is very important for better regulation, because, if the best designed legislation remains on paper, it will disappoint citizens, it will be just paper, and we will provoke a more cynical approach towards the efforts of the commission and of parliament, so enforcement and implementation scoreboards are really very important. the commission is sure that any future proposal following up the green paper consultation will be preceded by a thorough impact assessment in accordance with the applicable internal guidelines, also as a part of a better regulation process. i would like to refer for a while to collective redress, which is very important. i do not know with what kind of words i could reassure those who are still hesitant that this is not an american-type of class action. i do not know how these allegations began, that what we are trying to introduce is the american class action; maybe i need to speak ex cathedra and make a solemn oath. no, this is not an american class action. this is our attempt to answer to the needs of the european citizens. in november there will be a very interesting conference during the portuguese presidency on collective redress and, please, if you would like to be instrumental in our future attempts, let us not use the term ‘class action’. we are talking about collective redress. by the way, in 14 european member states, we have collective redress, representative action and group action, as in france etc. fortunately, businesspeople are coming around more and more to the idea of collective redress. i had a very interesting meeting recently with the mouvement des entreprises de france. i was invited there for a big conference, and we are starting to come closer in our positions, so i believe that if we do our work properly, making sure, in a very open and sincere manner, what we are targeting with collective redress, we will finally reach a common solution. i personally believe in it. financial capability and services – an absolutely good and proper point. the commission recently held a conference on financial capability issues to generate ideas on what it can do in this area. the commission will come forward with a communication on this subject later this year, in which it will set out its views and announce initiatives to encourage and promote the provision of financial education in the member states. again, let me reiterate that i will join my efforts to commissioner mccreevy’s report on financial services and i will keep the agenda of consumer protection, the citizens’ market, very close to the outcome. now to specific issues raised in the green paper. i would like to refer to some of them. digital content and software: the commission agrees that this issue requires further reflection. as you know, we supported ms roithová’s report. i think this is one of the possible avenues for doing important things right now to raise awareness, but the commission will launch an information-gathering process in order to determine whether consumers suffer detriment as a result of the lack of coverage of digital content and software. this process will be separated from the general follow-up to the green paper. concerning the issue of prolonging the time limit for the legal guarantee, some of you pointed out how important the liability and guarantee is as a process of consumer protection. the commission considers that future reflection is required, but takes note of the support for this issue by many respondents to the consultation. furthermore, the commission agrees with the suggestion to maintain the current rules of the burden of proof or the lack of conformity. the commission takes note of the european parliament’s opposition to the introduction of direct producers’ liability. further reflection is needed on this issue in view of the mixed views amongst the stakeholders. i shall refer now to collective redress. this issue has been raised in ms patrie’s report and by ms wallis as well. i agree with ms wallis concerning the need to ensure coherence between the work on the preparation of cfr and the review of the consumer acquis, that we will maintain the same speed. you can rely on my commitment, ms wallis, that i will not miss an opportunity to speak about the importance of the cfr in the future. mr lechner also mentioned quite promptly how important coherence is. it is definitely part of my agenda to assure coherence on the issue of consumer acquis. concerning ms kallenbach’s remarks on toys: i hope that, on 12 september, if i am not mistaken, at the next meeting of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i will have more opportunity to talk about the action taken by the commission. i think that we already have some concrete results to discuss. i went to china; this problem has not caught us by surprise. we have our rapex system, which is an excellent example of solidarity within the union, to inform all 27 countries rapidly if a dangerous product is found on our markets. it works well. i made quite a strong point when i went to china – immediately after the visit, the two licences were withdrawn from the chinese producers of the toys. yesterday, i had a long conversation on the phone with mr eckert, who is ceo of mattel. i think that the toys issue and china could be used in explaining why it is so important to have targeted full harmonisation. it is not enough if consumers are well protected in one country. we cannot live in islands and this is definitely not the internal market and this is definitely not a united european union. believe me, it is very hard, even the biggest country in the union, to convince china to act. if we would really like to have a stronger voice in our talks with china, we need to remain absolutely united with a clear set of rules, not 27 different markets, and also to follow very much enforcement. the consumer acquis is not the only one tool. we should see the entire picture. the acquis is definitely very important; it is the base and our foundation. but we also have our consumer strategy for 2007-2013, and we put a lot of effort into making sure that the enforcement is equally well respected everywhere. we have our consumer protection cooperation regulation, and at the end of september i invited all the consumer protection authorities to discuss some of the issues and the dangerous goods from the chinese toy factories. i will come back to you and report on our stocktaking. also, the european consumer centre networks are very instrumental and complementary to what we are achieving as a good legislative base that should be implemented. just to refer now to european city guide. yes, i receive a lot of letters about european city guide. unfortunately, on the basis of my prerogatives as commissioner for consumer protection, i cannot do a lot. i will open my blog with a warning to citizens not to use such kinds of malpractices and be aware of european city guide’s malpractices, but this is in the hands of the member states to implement the possible protection. enforcement will be very much a key effort in the next months. i wrote personally to all my counterparts in the member state governments to make them aware that unfortunately we are not doing well with transposition of the directive on unfair commercial practices. twenty-seven of my counterparts received personal letters to make them aware that things are not going well. if we fail with transposition of the acquis, this is a very unstable ground for the future. the question of rome i has been raised by ms wallis and mr lechner. i can assure you, at this stage, that i do not see any inconsistency between the proposed rome i regulation and an act which would fully harmonise some aspects of consumer protection or introduce a mutual recognition clause for the other aspects. but i am at your disposal to continue our discussion on this point. i know how sensitive it is from the point of view of our consistent efforts in making the legislative base for the union coherent. i should like, once more, to thank all of you. i believe, ms patrie, that you have received a lot of recognition for your hard work. let me finish by thanking you and saying that i look forward to continuing our work on this very important subject. finally, thank you to the european citizens witnessing this debate.
in writing. the acquis communautaire on consumer rights has been enriched year by year with provisions that help to make the european single market a reality. among the recent legislative acts, the roaming directive ensures that one of the major barriers to free movement felt by european citizens has been removed. the motor vehicle tax directive goes in the same direction. unfortunately, a council decision has been pending since 2005, although both parliament and the economic and social committee gave their favourable opinion last autumn. this is absolutely necessary, as 16 member states currently impose a tax with as many value levels, which is an insurmountable barrier to buying a car from another eu member state. in most cases, citizens who change their residence between two member states that apply a form of registration fee end up paying it twice. the european parliament and the commission must make arrangements for the finance ministers of the member states to adopt this directive in the council. the concept of 'european citizenship' will only be fully consistent when all the rights defined by the treaty are transposed into reality by the european union and the member states.
mr president, as is well known, on 25 november 2007 romania will hold the european parliament elections, the first of their kind in the country's history. an event of such political, social and, as i said, historical importance should mobilize the whole of society to ensure that the action takes place under the best conditions. unfortunately, this is not the case, as the political scene in romania is riven with endless disputes, a situation which, in my opinion, does not favour the climate of stability necessary for the normal conduct of elections. moreover, if the motion of no confidence tabled today, two months before the elections, is adopted, and it is likely to be adopted given that it is initiated by the largest opposition party, the political situation will risk worsening further, the main effect being a decrease in the interest of the population in the elections for the european parliament. in this situation, i believe it is appropriate, and perhaps even necessary, for the political forces in the european parliament to join the romanian forces in order to normalise the conditions for the elections.
mr president, on 14 september i tabled a motion for a resolution on respect for the linguistic rights of romanian communities in europe and the preservation of the romanian language in the context of promoting multilingualism and cultural diversity in the president's office of the european parliament. at the end of august, an unprecedented testimony was the exchange of views with members of the ilaşcu group, which took place in the subcommittee on human rights. they talked about the closure of romanian-language schools and the burning of romanian-language books in the transnistrian region of moldova. also, my parliamentary office received numerous complaints from the romanian community in the timoc valley in serbia, regarding the prohibition of the right to learn and pray in romanian. the same can be said of the romanian communities in bulgaria and ukraine. in the context of the declaration of 2008 as the year of intercultural dialogue and the attention paid by the european union to the promotion of cultural diversity, also by creating the post of commissioner for multilingualism in 2007, i believe that we cannot ignore the situation of continuous violation of the linguistic rights of the romanian communities. we must promote their protection, both in the european union's external and internal policies, and find solutions to improve the current situation.
mr president, the european press has recently reported on a number of abuses by employers in the member states of the european union against seasonal or permanent workers from the new member states, abuses associated with serious breaches of labour law. such unfortunate cases are possible because of the newcomers' lack of knowledge of their rights in the labour market, the legislation in the field and especially the institutions that are able to protect them. that is why i strongly urge the european commission to set up free legal advice offices for workers from other member states in all member states as a matter of urgency. i also believe that, in regulating such situations, the commission must also take into account measures to encourage and facilitate labour migration between member states.
mr president, my point is simple: as energy becomes the focal point in international politics and as efforts to create a single eu energy market are increasingly resisted by the existing national monopolies, the efforts of the same union to further integrate the foreign policies of its member states into a common foreign and security policy would be consequently undermined, because, on the import side, member states seek to continue to secure preferential deals with the major suppliers and, on the export side, they would attempt to extract maximum gain from unilateral policies. the effects are already visible: in spite of the hard talk at union level, the truth is that, instead of reducing its current energy dependency, the eu is becoming more and more dependent on russian and/or russian-controlled energy supplies. not that a substantive relationship with russia is a bad thing in itself, but, the more substantive it gets, the more unbalanced it tends to get too. as a citizen of a country with enough experience in the matter, i know how difficult it is to keep politics away from trying to exploit such an economic dependency.
in writing. today the eu depends on imports of gas for 57% and oil for 82%. it is estimated that by 2030 the eu will be over 84% dependent on gas imports and over 93% dependent on oil imports. the eu needs an energy policy that allows economic and social development, but also ensures environmental protection through effective measures against climate change. i consider the next five years to be crucial for planning and approving projects of 'european interest' for the ten-e, for diversifying energy supply sources and for increasing energy efficiency at community level. to limit climate change, the eu has set a target of 20% of european energy consumption coming from renewable energy sources by 2020. thus, both the member states and the commission must inventory the sources of renewable energy on their territory and define action plans for their efficient use. we ask the commission to be actively involved in this inventory. the structural funds and the european competitiveness and innovation fund, as well as the 7th research framework programme, can and should be used by member states for investment in energy technology.
mr president, this legislative package is truly european in both principle and substance, although it still retains the 'international' denominator, even though it advocates the development of the internal market. for this stage, the distinction is still necessary and is an important step in creating an integrated rail network in the european union. member states are able to amortize their long-term investments, which are absolutely necessary for special infrastructures, more efficiently. maintenance costs and quality of service can be reduced to the benefit of passengers who will in turn be free to choose between commercial and public services, while also having their rights guaranteed. in addition, by cabotage, all passengers can have access to competitive services. however, it must be acknowledged that the new member states, including romania, still operate under disadvantaged conditions. for this reason, liberalisation needs to be analysed and approached differently on a case-by-case basis, with a focus on improving interoperability and cross-border cooperation, and by re-examining the priorities under the instruments for financing investment in specialised infrastructure. in addition, the union must prepare itself for the real challenge: creating a functionally integrated network with the rail systems of neighbouring countries, through trans-european transport networks and pan-european corridors, while respecting enlargement and facilitating access to central and east asia. i would point out that there is a risk of false jobs arising from the relocation of workers from an old operator to a new operator. the balance must therefore be struck between economic policies of competition and social policies. it is also necessary to discourage any form of distortion of competition. firstly, by transparency and by preventing the creation of monopoly alliances between the major railway operators, which can block the entry of new operators, since it is ultimately the passengers who will lose.
mr president, the latest voluntary recall of dangerous products manufactured in china raises serious questions about the proper implementation of european consumer protection legislation. these products bore the ce marking, thus facilitating the export of toys to the european market by chinese manufacturers. many consumers misunderstand the meaning of this mark, believing that this symbol is a guarantee that the products have been manufactured in europe. but abandoning the ce mark is not a viable solution, because it represents an advantage for european manufacturers in international trade. it is necessary to find a label additional to the existing one, introducing mandatory controls and drastic sanctions for those who abuse the ce mark. to prevent potentially dangerous products from being placed on the market in the future, it is important that national consumer protection authorities improve their monitoring and investigation measures on compliance with eu law. moreover, national authorities must ensure that consumers are entitled to receive their money back for dangerous products purchased.
mr president, i would like to stress the importance of this document and, as a member of the eu-mercosur delegation, i would like to stress the importance of the region. it is a region of great size, with a large population, which has the promise and must be helped to have economic growth. this region is a region that has a lot of natural resources and, in fact, the european union absorbs 25% of the mercosur region's exports. it is important to help the region for economic development, for industrial development; its role in climate change will be extremely important and, therefore, we must support regional integration. for the 2007-2013 strategy, one fifth of the budget allocated to the relationship with mercosur will finance education and the development of the information society, and this is extremely important, given that in brazil the literacy rate is around 90%. i also think that brazil has an important role to play because almost half of the population of the mercosur region is in this country. again, climate change is extremely important, and this region has an important role to play.
mr president, commissioner, the development of the european union is based on mobility and the free movement of people and goods. 80% of european citizens live in cities and 40% live in large cities. 60% of them believe that congestion and pollution are practically at the level of cities and over 70% of them expect action at european level. i believe that the green paper on public transport will also solve, and must solve, the problem of the 40% of citizens who do not own a car and live in cities and, above all, the integration of people with disabilities into economic and social life. urban planning is extremely important and i also ask that certain funds can be used - structural funds, jessica, regional funds - for the development of urban transport. i support the use of the project and the extension of the civitas and civitas+ project and, in particular, the encouragement and support of new member states to benefit from these funds for the development of urban transport.
member of the commission. yes, we are truly focusing on that. it was basically that philosophy – it is shared in the existing framework programme – but the truth is that we are now also focusing on the preparation of a strategic technology plan for europe. it should be adopted by the commission by the end of the year. in that, we are of course consulting practically everybody in this area in europe. so we have consulted all the technology platforms which already exist. we have had very open talks with them. they are, from bottom up, practically all included in our activities and we are trying to find a proper way of having this coordinated. you properly said that it is also vital that we share in the best possible way, in an international way, on how to address these questions. but in that respect, there are two things: when you also try to address it from the private sector, you have to do it in a balanced way, before or between the cooperation and competitiveness, and that is exactly what we try to take into account.
member of the commission. i think it is more the principal question of how far this mid-term review should go. i think that is the question we have to answer. if the answer is that we have to address, because of the urgency, some of the issues that are inside the already agreed financial period, then i am sure that area of science and research would be one of the candidates that needed to be addressed.
member of the commission. the iter project, as the honourable member knows, is a project which is an international flagship of the world fusion energy research programme. since its inception during summit discussions in the late 1980s, europe has played a leading role in the successive preparatory stages for the project. the commission can be justly proud of the confidence shown by the iter partners in according europe the central role of the host party to the joint implementation of this project. the jet facilities, designed and built through the joint action of euratom and its members, provided an outstanding example of what can be achieved when leading fusion research organisations pool their expertise and resources. the iter project extends this principle from the european to the global level of cooperation. iter technical objectives and design are based on the steady and scientifically rigorous prospect process of development, in fusion research worldwide which has witnessed dramatic increases in the performance of experimental fusion facilities over recent decades in an atmosphere of international scientific cooperation that has transcended political barriers. beyond jet, iter extends the experimental side to the level where the scientific and technological feasibility of fusion energy can be demonstrated. since the signature of the iter agreement in november 2006, the iter partners have all handled properly the commitments that they accepted through the iter negotiations. at the political level, all the partners have pursued to completion their respective constitutional requirements for ratification or acceptance of the agreement, which is now accepted to enter officially into force within october this year. in the mean time, the partners have properly honoured their undertakings to abide by the terms of the agreement to the fullest extent possible until it enters into force. the staff of the international iter team and the iter site in cadarache in france is building up with representatives of all partners now present. the partners are providing their financial contributions to the budget of the iter organisation and are pursuing conscientiously the necessary joint technical preparations for the technical and scientific contributions to which they have committed themselves. in the european union, a joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established by the council decision of 27 march 2007. its role is to prepare and coordinate activities for the construction of the demonstration fusion reactor and related facilities. to date, its supervisory body, the governing board, has met twice and adopted a first work programme and the administrative decisions necessary for the joint undertaking to be operational early 2008. in particular, the headquarters agreement with spain has been signed. the governing board also appointed the director, the chief executive officer of the joint undertaking. iter is indeed an ambitious project. in bringing it to fruition we shall be pushing back the boundaries of our experience in the scientific, technological and organisational domains. it is the nature of experiments that the results cannot be forecast with certainty. but iter is not an enterprise that we have entered into lightly or in the expectation of serendipity. iter consists of long-term international partnerships and commitments, bringing together partners that represent over half of the world’s population to address issues central to our common future, the development of sustainable, non-polluting sources of energy at the service of humanity. the prospects for iter rest on the strong scientific and technological foundations of the project and on the enthusiasm and commitment demonstrated to date by its partners – by all of them; or rather, by all of us. there was never such cooperation in the world as we have gathered in iter.
member of the commission. that is certainly correct. i can give a very short explanation. the commitments which are then done are done by governments. they are all public commitments. so, the commitments which were in galileo from the public side were never really the question. truly, the problem that arose in galileo would not arise at all in iter.
member of the commission. first of all, i would like to thank you for the question concerning the area of nanotechnology. the commission takes the question of safety and consumer protection very seriously and it is working to ensure that the public can benefit from the innovations that nanotechnologies may bring while being protected from any adverse impact. much effort is dedicated to addressing safety issues. something like eur 28 million from fp5 and fp6 has been dedicated to projects expressly focused on environmental and health aspects of nanotechnologies, and such research is planned to increase significantly in framework programme 7 too, both in size and in scope. as you know, the commission adopted an action plan for nanosciences and nanotechnology for europe 2005-2009 and parliament adopted a resolution on it, in which the action plan was well received. in the communication published this month on the implementation of the nanotechnology action plan, we fully address the second part of your question. a wide range of european and wider international, especially oecd and iso, approaches are pursued, both regulatory and non-regulatory, to address the potential adverse impact of nanotechnologies. the commission is performing an assessment of regulatory aspects in relation to health, safety and environmental aspects of nanotechnology-based products. preliminary results indicate that, overall, the existing community regulatory framework gives good coverage with regard to nanotechnology-based products developed today. different aspects of production and products, such as the ones mentioned in the question, like cosmetics and medicines, are already subject to various community provisions, albeit not specific to nanotechnology. consequently, there seems today to be no need to develop new legislation for nanotechnology-related safety risks or to propose major amendments. nevertheless, on the basis of scientific development or regulatory needs in specific areas which the commission closely monitors, regulatory changes may be proposed where necessary. it is not nanotechnology as such where regulatory aspects should be considered but rather nanotechnology-based products. the commission is convinced that the moratorium on nanotechnology would be severely counterproductive. apart from denying society the possible benefits of such technologies, it may lead to the emergence of technological paradises outside europe, where research and innovation are carried out without regulatory frameworks. finally, i would like to mention another eurobarometer survey, which was about new technologies and was carried out in 2005 on a sample of 25 000 people. if you compare it to the nanodialogue exhibition, which you mention in your question, this one was based on 700 respondents. eurobarometer found that, on the whole, europeans supported the development of nanotechnology, with approximately 55% in favour. these technologies are perceived as useful to society and morally acceptable. understandably, as many as 42% of respondents were uncertain about the effects of this new technology, but according to the survey almost 70% of the respondents who expressed an opinion as to its effects were optimistic.
member of the commission. i fully agree with you and with the first statement. the worst thing would be if something happened, so we have to prevent that and we have to be on the safe side. that is the name of the game and i fully agree with you. proposing legislation does not fall within my responsibility, but falls within the responsibility of my colleagues in the commission who deal with protection. i am sure they are looking at that very carefully. what i can say is that we are doing everything possible in research to try to analyse the potential risks that you mentioned, and this is certainly something done under my responsibility.
member of the commission. yes, the answer is clearly positive. this is one of the areas. nanotechnology, if one were to compare it, is a bit like information technology, because there is a horizontal influence on many sectors. one of the sectors where the results are very promising is health, so this is also part of our research, which is also, without any doubt, orientated in this direction.
member of the commission. without any doubt, this is an area which needs attention, not least as concerns risk. when we enter into areas which in practice have this inherent potential then we have to act with caution. if we do not want people to turn against something which, if handled carefully, would certainly benefit them, then we have to do things in a way in which everything possible is done so that this does not happen. that is exactly our approach. at this very moment, of course, there have been no incidents connected to this area, but it is obviously one in which it is much better to take a cautious approach. that, surely, is the right way to proceed.
the commission's vice-president the commission is not aware of any statistics of concern in other major european cities which have introduced articulated buses. nevertheless, community legislation deals with the problem in several aspects. directive 97/27 on the masses and dimensions of certain categories of motor vehicles and their trailers lays down standards for the manoeuvrability of buses in general and specific standards for articulated buses. directive 2003/59 on the initial qualification and further training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the carriage of goods or passengers is intended to improve the level of training of drivers. in this respect, it would be desirable for national transposition texts to provide for ad hoc training programmes for articulated bus drivers. as regards driver vision, european legislation has addressed the problem of heavy goods vehicles by means of directive 2007/38 on the retrofitting of mirrors on heavy goods vehicles registered in the community. the commission is nevertheless aware of the need to take account of other categories of vehicles, such as city buses. therefore, as requested by the legislator in the aforementioned directive, the commission will present, in due course, a report on the results obtained, accompanied, if appropriate, by a proposal for a review of the existing legislation. these are the answers i could give to mrs. sarah ludford.
the commission's vice-president you are quite right to insist on the safety of these buses, and, if you will allow us, we will question the london authorities on this matter. it is true that articulated buses may be easier to drive than rigid buses, but when the driver has taken the vehicle's capabilities into account, he tends to drive a little faster and be more confident when changing direction, sometimes, unfortunately, a little too much. so you have raised a real question which we will, as i have just said, try to investigate to see if, indeed, there is no need to amend the existing legislation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the commission's vice-president mrs ţicău, priority railway line 22 is to link germany to greece via prague, vienna, budapest and sofia. a branch to the north of this axis leads via curtici and brasov to bucharest and constanta. romania and bulgaria, together with the other countries concerned, are making considerable efforts to build this railway line gradually, with the aim of linking their respective capitals and the port of constanta to the rail network of the rest of the european union. these efforts should be continued over the period 2007-2013. these projects may be eligible for community financial support through the cohesion fund or the structural funds, or through the budget of the trans-european networks. in particular, romania is developing as a priority the curtici-brasov-bucharest-constanta railway line. a section of 92 kilometers north of bucharest is already built. projects are under way between bucharest and constanta, which should be gradually implemented by 2010. romania has indicated in its transport operational programme for 2007-2013 that it plans to develop the curtici-brasov-predeal line using the cohesion fund for this purpose amounting to eur 1 100 million. an important step towards connecting sofia to the european union network was taken with the signing of the contract for the construction of the vidin-calafat railway bridge over the danube, financed by the ispa fund. the bridge is due to be completed in 2010. in addition, bulgaria plans to develop part of the vidin-sofia line in its transport operational programme for 2007-2013. the cost of the works to be carried out until 2013 amounts to eur 320 million out of a total of eur 1 380 million for the whole of this line. romania has committed itself to complete by 2013 all preparatory studies for the rehabilitation of the craiova-calafat line north of the danube bridge, so as to be ready to start the works immediately after 2013. i am sorry to give you all this information orally, but we can of course supplement it, if necessary, in writing, madam, as you request.
commissioner, i would like to have this information in writing, if i may. i would also ask you to organise a seminar in romania on the structural funds, because i believe that the new member states need support to access the structural funds and develop their transport infrastructure. the european union's exit from the black sea is important and therefore i believe that the development of the railway is also important for the mobility of passengers and goods. i come back to the question of the high-speed train: passenger mobility is important and therefore i ask that we have a dialogue so that we can take the necessary steps for this important project.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr paasilinna, who has almost completely rewritten the commission document, making it functional. the knowledge triangle, dedicated to innovation, research and education, and made up of universities, research centres and institutes and companies, is indispensable to achieving the lisbon strategy objectives of having 3% of gross domestic product invested in research, of which two thirds should come from the private sector. the knowledge and innovation communities will be a link between the private sector and the academic and research community. the pilot projects proposed by mr paasilinna are necessary and i hope that we will have a pilot project like this in romania. investment is needed along the whole route from production to dissemination and exploitation of research and innovation results. funding this institute is the first step, but we need investment in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises and in the field of the private sector, because there are people and resources to co-finance research projects. there has to be a long-term strategy. intellectual property is important, but we have to be careful that this initiative does not overlap with joint initiatives, joint undertakings. i hope that this institute will do more work on climate change, the information society and nanotechnology.
member of the commission. madam president, thank you for not only giving me the floor but for the possibility of being at this interesting debate, because, when we reflect back to two years – or at least one and a half years – ago, we can see a total difference. i just want to react to some points and prepare for further cooperation, because we are not at the end. we are far from the definite establishment, but what we have already achieved in council and parliament is really something very significant. first, a smaller point, which was raised by some colleagues from the verts/ale group: according to mr hammerstein, climate change was dropped. we do not think so. in the proposal as it stands now, there is, inter alia, a field of renewable energy and climate change. we do not want to insist, we do not want to put it very narrowly, because it is for the governing board definitively to decide and define. but the global challenges or highly demanding issues which we face now are one of the reasons why we speak about the eit, because we need to pool resources and put together the forces we have in order to respond in a way. mr smith, i visited and gave a speech at the royal society of edinburgh on higher education, and the eit was a very strong, interesting debate, and also inspirational mutually. i would not be discouraged by such messages from edinburgh or the rectors i met, but of course the scheme is under preparation. participation is voluntary and i think we should see it as a common responsibility but with the full freedom to take some positions. on overall content, i would like to make four points. first of all, my thanks for the innovative mood in this parliament because, as some of you have said, it is about innovations, and you have to start innovations by addressing the way we deal with innovations. it does not happen just through technology; it must first of all come as a new approach, a new way of communicating and putting together institutions, conditions for mobility, for recognition of qualifications and so on – and, of course, money, but that is not the decisive element. it is not the first element. that is the mentality, the approach, along, of course, with some reasonable funding. since spring 2005, we have gone from ideas to concept to proposal, and you have always been involved. it is not just the commission and bureaucrats or whatever, it is a kind of common work, and that is why we should be aware that if we try to achieve something together we will be much more successful than without such a committed approach as we see here. if you recall, two years ago in the media it was about strasbourg or about something false, not about a real commitment from europe to innovate. now we have many serious candidates. just this evening, wrocław, budapest, munich and many more were mentioned – i do not want to forget about them. i got many more messages from different universities. that is fine, because it shows that now we at least believe the idea or want to offer something very serious. that is something europe needs. we are not the ‘united states of europe’. it is not massachusetts. it is about the way we will put together better conditions and one concrete project towards a more innovative europe. the eit is not the absolute answer. it is one of the answers. some people have said it is a flagship. i would say it is rather an icebreaker towards a more innovative europe, to create better conditions for intellectual property –you know how long it takes and how weak we are – and better acceptance and recognition of diplomas and degrees etc. – many issues. if the three cities mentioned are not the seat, then they should at least be knowledge innovation communities. but i want to say that it was wrong at the beginning to say it is about money and the place. no, this will come as part of the proposal, but it is not the most important part. the answer will come within 12 months after we have agreed definitely on the establishment. i am really happy that there are very credible candidates now, but this will come when we agree on the legal base. the council will try to choose the best out of the existing serious candidates. secondly, on money: last week we proposed the way in which we could come to the final point where we say not only how much money but also from which source we can finance the body until 2013. it is for basic operations, but it must, as many of you have said, mobilise much more money. it is not, i would say, decisive in terms of overall volume but as a credible contribution of the union. we cannot expect anybody to give a blank cheque or promises if we do not bring something credible. but there are many concrete responses, intentions to invest, even from businesses and associations of businesses, but we have to make our proposal full. on what mr buzek said on initiatives or joint technology initiatives, networks and platforms, this proposal is not competing. it is a proposal complementary to existing policies and initiatives and we can imagine that some existing cooperation models will step up the intensity of cooperation and join with some other partners, either from universities or business, and apply for a place under the eit. so i think that from platforms, from initiatives, from networks, to get into an integrated partnership is a reasonable change of the way we innovate. lastly, i wanted to mention the step towards a new culture of innovation. this is the right approach. the eit is not so much about the place, one seat and the board, but a new and better culture for innovation in europe. i think that is all i could, or wanted to, raise as points in my response, but thank you very much for a very positive and constructive climate here in this plenary. and thanks also to the rapporteur, mr paasilinna, once again, because i know it was not easy, and it is still not easy, and we are not at the end. but we can finalise this proposal. i am looking forward to it. (applause) commission’s position on amendments by parliament paasilinna report (a5-0293/2007) the commission can accept amendments 3, 12, 14, 18, 20, 23, 38, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 50, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 72 and 73. the commission can accept amendments 7, 16 and 28 in substance. the commission can accept, subject to redrafting, amendments 2, 15, 17, 26, 39, 29, 30, 32, 36, 37, 41, 42, 43, 51, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57, 59, 60, 61, 62, 70 and 74. the commission reserves its position on amendment 21 on financial aspects pending an agreement on the funding. the commission cannot accept amendments 1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 19, 22, 24, 25, 27, 31, 33, 34, 35, 47, 55, 58, 69, 71, 75, 77, 78 and 79.
in writing. the european institute of technology has the potential to bridge the innovation gap between the european union and its external competitors and to capture the interest of millions of young researchers across europe. in order to achieve these objectives, it is essential to ensure the feasibility of the project. the eit in the form proposed by the commission will consume over 1.2 billion of cohesion policy funds and draw on the resources of successful programmes to deliver the lisbon strategy. this would mean centralising research funding into a single community project and reducing the funding opportunities open to private entrepreneurs. the eit must be a complementary innovation institution in europe, not a replacement for small r & d centres. that is why we must find, together with the council, other ways of financing this project. one of the provisions of the report states the need for the institute to be established in a union state where there are 'centres of excellence and european academic reputation'. as a country with a strong tradition of research and innovation, romania has important academic centres and highly qualified graduates in the field of technology. the choice of romania as the host country for the european institute of technology would stimulate economic growth in the entire region and help to balance the still existing differences within the european union.
madam president, mr saryusz-wolski’s report is important and timely. energy today is strategic for the european union, as coal and steel were decades ago. yes, the european union needs a common european foreign policy in energy. starting from this statement, i believe two questions are legitimate. firstly, how could one have a common external energy policy without a common internal energy policy? we need a common agency for technological development in this field; we need a european budget funded in an appropriate way and from appropriate sources; we need a coherent strategy for the energy production; we need an integrated network of energy transportation, compatible systems of distribution and a european union policy to balance consumption and production. we need a truly free internal energy market. secondly, how could one have a common foreign policy on energy without a general common foreign policy? the russian factor is crucial. unfortunately, russia perceives any common european strategy on energy as being directed against its interests. how can we figure out a convincing win-win strategy on energy in our relations with russia? russia’s behaviour today is unacceptable. however, we could not only tell russia to behave, we have to motivate it to behave. therefore, i believe we should welcome mr saryusz-wolski’s report, but we should see it as one necessary important step in a long way towards our common goal.
ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work and his openness in dealing with the many aspects of a common european energy policy. one of the points i would like to make in my speech is the importance of the black sea region in the future of the policy mentioned above. in recent years we have witnessed several energy crises that have affected the european union. the objectives of ensuring a stable energy supply and a transparent market have become an unquestionable priority for the european union. in this context, the black sea region is an important key to securing the european energy sector through diversification of energy sources and transit networks, and the european initiative to strengthen regional cooperation in the black sea by creating synergies should be used to the maximum extent in this direction. i would particularly like to stress the strategic importance of the nabucco and constanța-trieste projects. i therefore welcome the attention given to these projects in mr sarvusz-wolski's report and the recent appointment of a european coordinator for the nabucco project. equally important are the objectives of strengthening the network of energy coordinators and implementing the energy community treaty. i hope that these initiatives will be followed by even more decisive steps towards the establishment of a common energy policy, steps which will bring value to the black sea region and lay the foundations for a dialogue with external partners based on reciprocity and mutual trust, common values and, of course, respect for international obligations.
in writing. european energy policy has so far focused on creating, stabilising and regulating the internal market, a trend also visible in the european commission's latest energy package. it was considered that the liberalisation of the internal market would make the eu a major player on the international energy scene, but it was found that the union actually lacks an external and homogeneous dimension of energy policy. the new reality, in which competition and liberalisation are interlinked with climate change and resource security, generates not only external challenges (the fear of energy dependence on a single supplier, which uses its position as a political weapon), but also an important internal challenge, which tests the ability of member states to put their national interest in secondary order in order to create the conditions for the development of a common and coherent energy policy. the next step is to diversify resources through enhanced cooperation with neighbouring countries, particularly those in eastern europe and central asia. this ensures the convergent development of the member states and their neighbours and encourages regional and interregional cooperation, which is essential to make the european external energy policy more effective. the enlargement of the european energy community to the east would stimulate the final liberalisation of energy markets, providing a common advantage in view of a possible future enlargement of the european union.
in writing. the cumbersome system of information exchange between member states means that in practice very few citizens make use of the right to vote in elections to the european parliament that they have under the treaty when they are residents of another european state. the voice of these people must be heard and their access to the political life of their country of residence facilitated; therefore, i support the replacement of the current system with the requirement to complete a declaration of own responsibility. for residents wishing to stand in european elections, the obligation to obtain a national attestation is disproportionate to the general objective of directive 93/109. in practice, obtaining such a certificate from the institutions of the state of nationality is very difficult and time-consuming. that formal obligation has the effect of nullifying the right conferred by the treaty. a future proposal from the european commission must also address the issue of the formation of resident citizens' political groups. the electoral laws of the member states shall not discriminate between national parties formed by nationals of that state and other parties. political representation in european elections is a very important issue for countries with a large segment of the population residing in another eu member state, such as romania.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly in my initial speech i wanted to inform the european parliament in a detailed and comprehensive way of all the political, diplomatic and contacts we have made on the burma question, how we have been monitoring the situation and what we have done, and i now wish to reaffirm the presidency's full determination to continue, of course, to follow developments in burma with all the attention it deserves, and also to assure you that the presidency will not fail to propose all the measures which in its view demonstrate unequivocal solidarity with the people of burma and which at the same time also demonstrate unequivocally to the burmese authorities that they will have to pay a price for any further deterioration of the situation in the country.
acting president of the council. as the honourable member is aware, the council, at its meeting on 6 and 8 june 2007, carried out a thorough analysis of the situation with regard to the galileo project and adopted a resolution. in this resolution, the council invited the commission to submit proposals on the various aspects of the galileo project. the committee has now approved these proposals on 19 november and we now expect the relevant council bodies to examine them in full with a view to reaching an integrated decision on the implementation of galileo, including public finances and public participation arrangements, before the end of this year. as regards cooperation with third countries, it should be borne in mind that the council attaches the greatest importance to cooperation with countries outside the european union. since 2001, as is well known, several cooperation agreements relating to galileo have been signed with non-eu countries such as china, israel and ukraine. these countries contribute to the galileo programme in the fields of system design, research and industrial cooperation. in the specific case of india, a cooperation agreement was initialled by the commission and the indian negotiators in new delhi on 7 september 2005. the commission has, however, decided to continue consultations with the indian authorities in order to bring the initialled agreement into line with the standards of the ec cooperation agreements on galileo and to take account of the latest developments in this project. under the rules in force, the council has to wait for a commission proposal before taking a decision on this matter. in order to define better the position of third countries, the council recently adopted, on 22 march this year, a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations with countries which are not member states of the union with a view to concluding agreements on their participation as associate members in the field of cooperation with the gnss supervisory authority. the main objective of this decision is to provide a harmonised approach for all countries outside the european union by clearly defining the modalities of their participation in the gsa.
mr. president, i'd like to thank the secretary of state for the information he's provided. i would like to return to the first part of my question, which is the funding of the galileo project. i would like to hear more from the secretary of state about the actual financing of this project and how the commission's proposal was analysed and what will be the actual decision of the council in the period ahead.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, as is well known, freedom to provide services is one of the four fundamental freedoms which determines the functioning and efficiency of the single market, an important element of the first pillar on which the european union is built. that is why, but not only that, i consider an analysis of the state of completion of this internal market instrument to be equally important and necessary. important because the economic and social development of the european union depends to a large extent on the services sector, with the share of services in the union's gdp at 70% being significant in this respect. necessary because the volume of crossborder trade in services is very low in relation to the level of trade in goods, which also causes a lack of confidence in the consumption of such products by community citizens. on the basis of these arguments, i support and will vote in favour of the report. however, i believe that the relevant and valuable solutions proposed by the rapporteur would require a more substantial analysis of the situation of some of the newly acceded countries, such as romania, whose markets are much less developed than those of most other countries in the union. in this connection, i believe that the report should also have contained a set of objectives aimed at bringing the levels of development of national markets closer together, which is a necessary condition for the development of the single market and, consequently, of the frontier services segment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr zatloukal on his report, which i consider to be very good, because it deals with one of the most important and sensitive chapters of our lives, namely education. i would like to refer to three aspects of the report: i called for increased support for programmes of excellence in universities, both at member state and european union level, in line with its competences. if we want the lisbon agenda to succeed and to close the gap with other global actors, this is essential. the lack of highly qualified specialists in europe is felt everywhere and in an extremely acute way in the new member states due to the phenomenon of the brain drain. i am also convinced that improving the efficiency of the educational process is closely linked to multilingualism. in the context of the free movement of citizens of the european union, adaptation to the requirements of the labour market requires knowledge of foreign languages. at the same time, pupil and student exchanges would be facilitated by multilingual education. as regards the equity of education and training systems, i believe that member states must find the means to increase access to education and training for children, young people and adults. the subsidised places must help the disadvantaged social groups to reduce illiteracy, to promote social conversion, to adapt better to the requirements of the labour market and to reduce unemployment. in this way, the need for labour from third countries will be reduced. there are sufficient human resources, but they are not trained and managed effectively.
madam president, commissioner, the european union has set itself the objective that by 2010 the drop-out rate for young people aged 18 to 24 should not exceed 10% and that over 85% of young people aged over 18 should be in post-secondary education. 9.7% of eu children aged 0-17 belong to a family with no income. many children from poor families or from rural areas do not pursue a form of postsecondary education for financial reasons. i believe that in a social europe, scholarships for pupils and students should be available to all who want to learn. children with disabilities should also have access to education. member states and the commission must give priority to placing at least 90% of children under 7 years of age in nursery or kindergarten. this will enable young mothers to balance family life with their work. i also ask that, in order to make education more effective, we ensure the training and motivation of teachers.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by acknowledging the consistency and quality of this report, while also highlighting the importance of this subject for the betterment of people's lives and the development of communities. in my speech, i would like to draw attention to the importance of education in the implementation of european principles and provisions in the field of equal treatment between persons. the report rightly points out that laws are effective only when citizens are aware of their own rights. the need to inform citizens, but also to educate them to react, and ultimately to defend themselves, remains. only when people have the courage to speak, have the courage to write and to appeal for their rights, only then can the phenomena of discrimination be limited. at the same time, education for tolerance is extremely important for the survival of any community. learning to live with others, accepting differences not as a fate but as an opportunity to build the whole, is to follow the sure path to eradicate phenomena of this kind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the time has come for the european union to properly finance the noble objectives described in the treaty, such as combating gender discrimination or achieving equal pay for women and men. the report we are debating has captured one of the main opportunities for gender equality in the eu budget. the structural and cohesion funds are involved, and they must facilitate women's access to european resources. the data we have, following the last enlargement of the european union, show that women have had comparatively less to gain from regional policy and cohesion policy funds, and this needs to be corrected. however, it is not enough to look at regional and cohesion policy funds alone, although their share in the union budget - almost 36% - forces us to fight to ensure that they reach as many women as possible. we also need to look at recent developments in the traditional gender programmes of the european union, such as progress, daphne and equal. although both progress as a whole and section 5 on gender equality are receiving additional funding this year, in relative terms the budget line for equality is lower in 2008 than in the previous year. the daphne programme to combat domestic violence has so far been very successful and the european commission has understood this and recommended an increase in the budget compared to 2007. for both these programmes and for equal, the council made reductions from the amounts proposed by the commission in the preliminary draft budget. the council also proposed a 7.5% cut in funding for the new gender institute, a totally unjustified cut for a european agency at the beginning of its journey. unfortunately, we still see that the political will of the council to translate into reality the european strategies for equal opportunities, for budget allocation, is still lacking. parliament, as the arm of the budgetary authority, must therefore make up for this shortfall and provide consistency to the eu's gender policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the year 2000, of the 8 million new jobs created, 6 million have been filled by women. we might think that the time has come for equality of opportunity, or even positive discrimination against women in gender relations. but we cannot say that, because the reality of these new jobs, of the six million women, contradicts us. we cannot really cope with the danger of ageing and demographic decline facing europe and the member states today if most women's jobs have been and are precarious, part-time or low-paid. the pay gap in europe remains at 15% to the disadvantage of women. member states as a whole, and romania is no exception, will have to continue to invest in education free of gender stereotypes, to adopt clear policies that reconcile family and professional life for women and men. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and i really believe that we need annual evaluations of the results of the actions included in the gender equality roadmap; we need a final agreement on issues such as the cost of maternity, parental leave, the individualisation of pension rights and the social security and taxation regime.
the lisbon summit will provide the european union with an opportunity to debate and perhaps decide on a subject of major importance for its future and its role in the 21st century. the context of 2007, with the european union now made up of 27 countries and the international scene becoming increasingly globalised, forces us to ask ourselves about the union's aims, priorities and how it will function in the future. it is clear that the european union's action in the 21st century must be based on two fundamental principles: democratic legitimacy and a close link with the european citizen, and increased coherence and efficiency in its work, including at the external level. firstly, it means respecting and promoting democratic values, the rights of our citizens, including minorities, and in this respect i welcome the explicit mention of this in the proposed treaty text. secondly, the european union cannot be a strategic player in today's globalised world without focusing its foreign policy on resolving disputes and encouraging international and intercultural dialogue, especially in the framework of the policy of promoting regional cooperation. last but not least, we must not forget the driving force behind all development, namely education and the place it should occupy in the revised lisbon strategy. without a greater focus on european education and research policy, we cannot talk about a reformed, efficient and strong union. i hope that the lisbon summit will also provide clear answers to the questions we have today.
rapporteur. – mr president, our proposals – mr lamassoure’s and mine – confirmed by the committee on constitutional affairs, bring a number of improvements to the current practices regarding the composition of the european parliament. if adopted, and properly enhanced, there will be no more artificial groupings, no more arbitrary negotiations, no more enlargement at the expense of the efficiency of the european parliament, which is always growing with the number of members. there will be more representativity, based on demographic realities and not on nominal or symbolic legal relations, more solidarity between the big and small states resulting from the digressive proportionality of the representation, and full legitimacy based on the civic representation resulting from the fact that the european parliament is elected by european citizens. one should note the difference between the democratic legitimacy of the european parliament, which is based on the vote of the european citizens, and national representativity within the european parliament, which is based on the demographic realities within the member states. we, the european parliament, are representative of citizens and of the states at the same time. (murmurs of dissent)you see, immediately, some say only citizens, others say states. we are a bundestag and a bundesrat at the same time. a clear separation of this dimension should, perhaps, be considered in the future, but for the time being – once we have accepted that the citizens are voting and that digressive proportionality should take into consideration the size of the communities living on national territories – i am sorry, but we are both. of course, within this framework, the concept of european citizenship is still to be clarified, and i hope that this will be done in the near future. our report, however, is not provisional but transitional. it is transitional because i believe the principles we have defined are long-lasting, but progress is needed, and i am sure that in the future we can add to what we have already proposed to you. therefore, we have included a number of revision clauses which to our minds – mr lamassoure’s and mine – will assure flexibility, adaptability and future progress in the way in which parliament is composed. nobody is penalised by this report. maybe those with a better demographic policy are rewarded, and certainly it is an invitation for a better demographic policy, including migration policy. i do not think anybody loses – and, perhaps, nobody wins – in terms of a zero-sum game. as long as we have a more democratically legitimate parliament, everybody wins. we have some amendments. some colleagues would like to reduce digressivity in favour of proportionality – more proportionality means more seats for the big countries. some others would like more digressivity and not more proportionality. more digressivity means more seats for small countries. therefore, i believe that we have to reject both these extreme options in order to promote the option which is, i agree, imperfect, but which for the time being is the best one. this is the option proposed by mr lamassoure and myself. some would look on the basis of reference. some would like all their national citizens, irrespective of their country of residence, to be taken into consideration. others would like to see all inhabitants in their countries being taken into consideration. others are trying to see only the european citizens residing in a certain country. so we are divided on that. the only solution is to stick with the actual practices and the actual eurostat figures.finally, there are some who are fighting for political prestige and think that, if we are not equally represented in this parliament, we are unequal in our political weight. i think that once we have accepted digressivity – and proportional digressivity – these artificial groupings cannot survive any longer. if we fail to adopt this resolution, i am afraid that the european parliament will send the message that it is not able to adopt an important reform and that it has to always wait for the executive institution to decide for it. i think that the igc will suffer a first failure before it can even consider the issues on its agenda, and this failure might be a prelude to a total failure. i am afraid that everybody will go back to nice and not to illusory dreams. i am afraid that, then, we will give a message which will mean a split between the big and small countries, and this will undermine any dream of unity, fairness and inclusion. therefore, i end with an appeal to all my colleagues. i make this appeal to our sense of european responsibility and european solidarity. hic rhodus, hic salta! here is rhodes, and let us prove here that we are true europeans, and not when giving lessons to the commission and the council.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is never more difficult to understand an explanation than when the promotion of your interests depends on not understanding that explanation. i am afraid that many of our colleagues have vanished because they are not looking for an explanation: they simply wanted to make their points, and that is all. however, i would like very briefly to make some clarifications. firstly, if this report fails, we are not only going to go back to nice, but worse than nice because, according to the mandate of the igc, the treaty will mention the 96 seats as the maximum level for one country – so it will be nice, and germany will have 96. by acting against this report, germany will not secure the 99 seats they have today; they should be aware of that. ms grabowska asked, what about the polish citizens who live partially in poland and partially abroad? it depends on their residence: whether they are tourists abroad or abroad for a short time does not matter, but if they are resident abroad and they are just visiting their families in poland, they will be taken into consideration where they live, but they will, of course, be able to vote in the same way as any european citizens. ms grabowska also asked, who is going to represent them? this is absolutely clear – the meps for whom they vote. all european citizens will have the right to vote, and all european citizens will be represented by those meps for whom they vote. a number of colleagues said, and i am only quoting an italian colleague: for the first time in the history of the union, we take into consideration the residents and not the citizens. false! we have always taken into consideration the inhabitants, the population, since the treaty of rome. if you want to change this custom, you can certainly change it, but please do not say things here which are completely false. i will end with this: if there is a problem, the problem lies with the lack of harmonisation of the national legislation on elections. certainly, i would be in favour of the approximation of that legislation, but this is a different issue. this takes time and we have to address this issue separately. i wish luck to the rapporteurs who are going to deal with the approximation of the electoral legislation; i hope that they will succeed. for the time being, i only hope that tomorrow, after a night of reflection, we will have a vote that will indeed reinforce the credibility of this institution.
member of the commission. madam president, on the question put by mr queiró, let me underline the fact that we are expecting substantive support. we will be having an informal ministerial meeting on 22 october in order to get the views of all the member states on the package that we are proposing. we hope that this package will be endorsed by the european council in december. that is a first stage. however, we need to be careful not to try to overstep what is achievable in the short term. if this proves successful and if the first initiatives that are being launched prove successful, then we can go to the member states to see whether there is a willingness to proceed further in the direction of greater integration of maritime affairs. however, it is important to underline the fact that this is a policy which is based not on the legislative approach but on incentivising, on facilitating and on creating the necessary tools in order to bring about more coordination, more cooperation and more stakeholder involvement. so, if one looks at the plan of action, one can clearly see that the underlying principle is establishing certain cross-sectoral tools which are needed to develop an integrated approach to maritime affairs and also starting to look at sectoral measures in a more holistic way, therefore taking into account what impact there would be, for example, if fisheries decisions are taken on other sectors as well as vice-versa. on the second question, i would like to underline the fact that, with reference to maritime policy, we have in actual fact today also adopted a communication from commissioner špidla which launches the discussion as regards the exclusions that workers in the maritime sector – in maritime transport and in fisheries – have from the normal labour law legislation. we need to look into this to see whether there is a possibility of reducing these discrepancies, to start with, so that the differences between land-based workers and sea-based workers are reduced without, however, creating problems of competitiveness, given that we are dealing with an international sector. we must, therefore, do this hand in hand with the operators so that, in that way, we can incentivise them and promote the elimination of these discrepancies between land-based workers and sea-based workers. on the question raised by mr batten, i would like to say that a maritime policy, an integrated approach towards maritime affairs, is not a case of the european union reinventing the wheel. it is something which has already been done by countries like the united states, like canada, like australia and now by japan, and we are, in a way, lagging behind. we need to step up the momentum so that we are on a par with our international partners on maritime affairs. may i remind mr batten that the problems with regard to the uk and fisheries date back to before the introduction of the common fisheries policy. we all recall events like the cod wars between the uk and iceland, which happened in particular before the introduction of the common fisheries policy. we are talking about a problem with regard to overfishing and fishing rights that already existed and which we are trying to redress through a more rational approach towards the management of fisheries under the reformed common fisheries policy.
i would also like to congratulate the commissioner on his integrated approach. i would like to draw attention to the fact that, with the accession of romania and bulgaria, the european union has access to the black sea, a new sea, and it is important that we can promote a common maritime policy in this region. i would also like the delta and estuary areas to be protected and to be part of the common maritime policy; and i would also like measures to combat marine pollution to be extended to inland waters that empty into seas and oceans and, not least, to the industrialized areas on the coasts. i think it is important that the commissioner's communication is concerned with working conditions for seafarers and those working in the shipyard area and i also think it is important that we maximise financial support for the development of infrastructure and activities in coastal areas.
i'm going to talk about the problem of zoos in romania. from the assessments made by some international non-governmental organisations in the field, the transposition of the zoo directive into romanian legislation is considered to be one of the best in europe. however, bringing romania's 41 zoos up to european standards by the deadline set for the end of this year seems almost impossible. under pressure of this deadline and with a public-private partnership, i support the importance of the immediate implementation of the joint action plan, which includes as a priority the following steps: the carrying out of a national study to classify existing zoos, the organisation of an emergency rescue team and the temporary prevention of animal reproduction. i also think it is necessary to allow a period of time for the implementation of this plan before a decision is taken to close zoos that do not meet the legal requirements.
parliament has taken a very important decision through the committee on budgets. with the 30% reserve for administrative expenditure for the european social fund, the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund, we are sending a strong signal to the european commission. the approval of operational programmes must be done within the timeframe laid down by the european directives, in this case four months. although romania was among the first countries to submit these documents back in january, two of the most important operational programmes have not yet been approved. these are the operational programme on administrative capacity building and the operational programme on human resources. given that we are not the only member state in this situation, i would like to know what reasons, if not bureaucratic ones, are driving the commission to extend their approval until november. the joint declaration which i adopted with the council following the conciliation meeting on 13 july requires the commission to ensure the rapid approval of member states' programmes and projects and to present a roadmap for their adoption.
a recent study shows that in romania about 170,000 children in grades 5 to 8 have one or both of their parents working abroad. the large number of children left in the care of grandparents or relatives is increasing day by day in the new member states of the european union, but also in the candidate countries. i would therefore like to stress the need to create appropriate structures to help children and parents to be together, and the need for a social policy that emphasises solidarity. i believe that facilitating family reunification as a factor of economic and social integration should be a key aspect of legal immigration policies. at the same time, i ask the european commission to draw up a strategy on the situation of children who remain in their countries of origin after their parents have left, and to support the creation of appropriate structures in the member states to help children and parents adapt to new family situations.
the limitation of payments from the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european agricultural fund for rural development should be made only in exceptional circumstances. in this respect, the commission proposal does not clearly define the situations in which agricultural payments should be reduced or suspended. the regulation, in the form proposed by the commission, only specifies that suspension is required when key components of the national control system are not effective due to the seriousness or persistence of identified deficiencies. i believe that this criterion can be used arbitrarily and can have dangerous effects for some member states. it is true that we must have a very well-established community control over the spending of funds, but it is also important to take account of the progress made by the institutions in the member states responsible for this control. i therefore believe that the instrument we are giving the commission today must be used with great caution, under very well defined conditions and under close parliamentary control. last but not least, the regulation must not have retroactive effect. the year 2007 is the year of the enlargement of the european union and it would be unfair for the provisions of the regulation to apply as of now, as proposed by the european commission. that is why i support the option of granting an additional year until the regulation enters into force. as regards the publication of the names of the beneficiaries of european funds, as well as the overall amounts they have received, i consider it to be a measure which clearly contributes to the transparency of the allocation system. this can stop fraud and political awarding of european rural development funds from the start and demonstrates responsibility in spending public money.
the agreement between the european commission and philip morris is a good example of a community financial instrument which pursues several objectives at the same time. first, free market access for manufacturing industry is not restricted, while tax evasion by those importing counterfeit products is combated by a $1.25 billion program, financed entirely by the american company. however, the signed agreement should involve a greater number of member states. the agreement was concluded in 2004, and since then romania and bulgaria, both on the border of the european union, have become member states. as a result of the entry of unlicensed products into the market in all the countries bordering the union, the european budget is suffering considerable losses in excise duties and national budgets in unpaid taxes on profits. it is a fact that those who try to bring counterfeit goods into the community choose european ports that do not have advanced technologies such as pallet scanning and registration. as this affects the european union's tariff revenue, i think it is normal that the modernisation of port facilities should be done with community financial assistance. the counterfeit products being sold at low prices are turning more and more young people into smokers, which will of course cost the social and health insurance systems of the member states considerable sums over time. reports from the world health organization show that in most cases, counterfeit cigarettes contain 75 percent more tar, 28 percent more nicotine, and 63 percent more carbon monoxide. as we look at the disastrous effects of smoking in general, regardless of whether cigarettes are legal or illicit, we must reflect on one more issue: while the european union promotes anti-smoking policies, it also gives generous subsidies to tobacco crops, which to me is a contradiction in european health policy.
i too would like to congratulate mrs jenzan on this report. europe needs economic development and, of course, the development of air transport. that is why i believe that european programmes such as caesar and clear sky will make important contributions to the development of the european aviation sector. in the first eleven months of last year alone, 225 new routes were developed, which means practically 1800 new flights per week. so, air transport is growing and new airport capacity needs to be developed. unfortunately, the major airports are crowded, there are many flights that depart late, there is waiting time both on the ground and in the air, which on the one hand contributes to pollution, and on the other hand has certain social effects. however, it should not be forgotten that the development of port infrastructure requires a long time, between 5 and 10 years, and substantial investments. that is why i think it is important that the member states - and i am referring to the new member states - should be supported in using the structural funds, the regional development funds for the development of new airports. a framework plan for new airport capacity in europe should also be addressed, at least in conjunction with, or if not after, the development of an action plan on the sound and efficient management of existing airport capacity. addressing the need for additional airport capacity in europe must be part of a strategy to develop air passenger and cargo transport, not only in a european and continental context, but even more broadly. in addition, airport directives and regulations must remain within the standards set and accepted by annex 14 to the chicago convention. should the commission have proposals to improve these standards, they should also be presented and supported within icao.
in writing. the explosive growth in air traffic is exacerbating congestion problems at airports and overloading traffic control systems. there are major problems caused by the fragmentation of european airspace, which causes delays and inefficiencies. the major airports are approaching capacity limits, some of them have already reached them, and in the current circumstances it is hard to believe that new airlines will be able to find a place in the market. however, through efficient management and integrated development, fair and non-discriminatory access to airport infrastructure can be ensured for all existing and potential operators. addressing these challenges requires a long-term strategic approach, particularly with a view to building new capacity or expanding existing capacity. this is why it is very important to coordinate national and cross-border initiatives to optimise existing capacities, improve the framework for the construction of new airport infrastructure, develop new technical solutions, promote co-modality by interconnecting different modes of transport and achieve safe transport by respecting all provisions related to safety and environmental protection. the expansion of airport capacity is welcome and must be combined with sound regulations to reduce noise and reduce aircraft emissions.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would just like to make a clarification, because several different terms are used in the report and in the amendments, and i would like everybody to know what we are going to vote on. there are a number of amendments by mr tajani and others which, when speaking about ‘citizens’, have in mind national citizens and not european citizens. when voting one way or the other on those amendments, please bear in mind that they are not talking about european citizens, but national citizens. i am sure everybody understands that this is an important difference.
the use of cyanides is one of the current methods of gold and silver mining. i would point out that the effects of such mining can lead to irreversible destruction of ecosystems and serious harm to the human body, as cyanide is one of the substances that passes unchanged into groundwater, the main existing source of drinking water. in the context of global warming, cyanide is changing the temperature and precipitation patterns, causing floods and landslides. the accident in romania's baia mare in 2000, when a sterile pond ruptured and about 100 000 m3 of water contaminated with cyanide and heavy metals spilled, caused the worst disaster in eastern europe since chernobyl. this has prompted a reform of the mining law in romania by introducing an amendment to the parliament that prohibits the use of cyanide in mining. mr president, i hope that the example of romania will be followed by other european union countries so that finally the ban on cyanide in mining will become a european norm.
statistics show that the population of the european union is ageing. only 35% of eu citizens are over 50 and only 16% of the eu population is under 14. the european union's demographic policy is a policy on which europe's future depends demographic policy must address affordable health care and decent pensions for pensioners, measures to increase birth rates in all member states, and decent, stable and well-paid jobs. i therefore call on the european commission to develop, together with the member states, a community policy and national strategies in the field of demographic policy. the results of these measures will be seen in the next 20 to 30 years. social europe needs all its citizens and, above all, it needs every citizen to be integrated into society and to have a decent living. that is why we must link population protection and development policies with demographic policies.
the gross energy production in the european union is based on different energy sources: 31% nuclear energy, 29% coal, 19% gas, 14% renewable energy sources and 5% oil. romania produces 13.5% of its energy from oil, also 15.3% from coal and coke and 5.9% is hydro and nuclear-electric power. as regards nuclear energy, it is essential to ensure its safety and, in particular, the proper treatment of waste. the fourth generation of nuclear generators will allow better management of nuclear waste and a reduction in its quantity. a very important element for environmental protection must, however, be the treatment of the water used to cool the reactors. therefore, investments in safety and radioactive waste treatment must be a priority for nuclear-powered states. the black sea region is of great importance for the diversification of the european union's energy supply sources. the region is of strategic importance not only for the transport of hydrocarbons from the caspian sea region to the european union, but also for the existing coal resources in romania, bulgaria, turkey, ukraine and russia. it is important that the coal industry ensures health and safety conditions at work. as long as coal is a source of energy, it is important that the necessary investments are made to ensure safety at work.
on behalf of the its group. the importance of an analysis of the contribution that fiscal and customs policies could make to the development of the lisbon strategy cannot be doubted. that is why, and not only because of that, the objective of the document we are examining today, the wagenknecht report, to develop the contribution of policies in the areas set out to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, is a welcome one. it could not be otherwise, as the lisbon strategy sets out generous objectives such as promoting growth and designing policies that enable european businesses to create more and better jobs. but what struck me as a citizen of a newly joined country when i read the report was the impression that it was addressed to a union made up only of countries with developed economies, or rather equally developed economies, which is not true. it is very likely that some of the proposed measures will not also have a beneficial effect on the less developed economies, given that the general laws of the single competitive market favour the strong economies to the detriment of the weaker ones. i shall not go into this further for lack of time, but i believe that in order for the objectives of the report to have a beneficial effect on the economies of all 27 countries, not 25, as mentioned in the text, it is necessary to compare their economies and, depending on the results, adopt a set of actions that create a level playing field for the development of the effects proposed by the project.
mr president, the text of the reform treaty agreed at the lisbon summit is clear progress, a step forward in the history of european integration – i would like to call it european unification. therefore, it should be greeted with satisfaction. nonetheless, however important this step might be, it is not the last one. in the short term it is crucial to see the treaty ratified by all the 27 member states. it should now be clear to everybody that there was no plan b and there is no plan c. after ratification we must continue, in the medium and long term, with the necessary reforms and policies until a complete reconciliation between europe’s history and geography is achieved within the framework of european transnational democracy. in this moment of relief, it is also crucial to get rid of any democratic hypocrisy and demagogy and admit that, in this complex world, political management requires – more than ever – a professional competence which could not be the subject of referendums. we must ask the people to decide, by ‘yes’ or ‘no’, on principles and fundamentals, not on sophisticated technicalities and complicated compromises. for the rest, we must observe the principle of the non-imperative mandate. on the other hand, we must also admit that the progress we are celebrating today was achieved at the expense of transparency and sincerity. the gap between peoples and us, the political leaders, after lisbon remains at least as big as before. until we close this gap, we should keep the bottles of champagne unopened.
in writing. just one year after its creation in 2006, the european globalisation adjustment fund is already being called upon. i welcome the vote on the decision to mobilise the fund, which is a first attempt to support our european citizens in the face of the challenges of globalisation. globalisation is a phenomenon that offers us many opportunities and opportunities, but it also creates difficulties in adapting to its consequences. it is therefore very important that the european union is able not only to respond to these challenges but also to address them effectively by mobilising the necessary financial instruments swiftly. the safety of the european citizen and his confidence in the future are at the heart of our actions and initiatives. i am particularly pleased to welcome the orientation of this fund towards the field of work and its security, but i also stress the importance of education in this field and the need to take this field into account in future mobilisations of the fund. finally, i hope that, if necessary, every eu member state will be able to benefit in the future from the mobilisation of the globalisation fund, whose less positive effects affect us all, including the new member states. this is how we will be able to build genuine sustainable development throughout the eu.
we set out earlier this year to negotiate with the council a pragmatic and effective results budget that delivers the policies needed now in the european union. through our amendments in the committee on budgets we have made severe cuts to programmes that were consuming taxpayers' money without bringing any real added value. the reductions in agriculture, amounting to eur 553 million, or 77% of all the reductions made, further reveal a clear agenda of the council to phase out this policy on which the entire structure of the economy of the new member states depends. i am glad that in the committee on budgets we have managed to restore the level of the sums allocated to agriculture. i also hope that the operational programmes and the rural development programme will be approved by the european commission as soon as possible. but in addition to these aspects, i would like to talk about the importance of the budget for the european union's youth policy. the budget i have proposed operates a 9% increase in funding for lifelong learning programmes, bringing the total to €900 million. these programmes have done more to advance the european idea than anything else. 90% of young people identify the european union with the possibility of travelling, studying and working anywhere in europe. we have to do more for these young people. one problem they face is the small amount of european scholarships, especially in erasmus. we have increased the payments in the current budget by eur 100 000 000 due to the enlargement of the european union to romania and bulgaria. but we need to make sure that a larger proportion of that money gets to each individual student. erasmus should not be an additional income for young students but, on the contrary, a main means of support for those with limited financial possibilities. last but not least, i would like to remind the commission of the commitments made in the trialogue in july to ensure an adequate number of posts for the new member states. at present, very few romanians or bulgarians work in management positions, but many are on temporary contracts. the additional funds we have allocated to the european union selection office must be spent efficiently on the fastest possible recruitment of permanent staff for the new member states.
member of the commission. mr president, i think this has been an extremely good debate which marks the launch of a very important project, which i think is timely, necessary and, as others have pointed out, is a platform for this and future generations. it is essential for the working of the single market, it is essential for europe’s social development, it is essential for the ability of europe’s citizens to cope with fast changing economic and labour market change. it is a passport to personal advancement as well as society’s integration. it has been a very constructive and harmonious debate – apart, i suppose, from the intervention of one compatriot who allowed his mixture of gross exaggeration and overstatement, tinged with a fair amount of ideological prejudice, totally to misrepresent what is being envisaged and proposed. this is a recommendation, and is exactly that – it is voluntary. the eqf will not award qualifications: that remains up to countries, universities and other institutions, which remain autonomous. there will be an eqf reference level on qualifications, for example on level 4, but national level will also be on qualification. so i am glad to be able to welcome this consensus – notwithstanding one individual – in this parliament and council behind the eqf legislative proposal, that this is reflected at the national level, where we see a serious momentum in building national qualifications frameworks.
in writing. the european framework of reference will reduce the complexity of a system of 27 bilateral relations in the recognition of qualifications obtained in academic and vocational education. the bologna process for creating a european education area by 2010 is thus complemented by an instrument for the equalisation of all qualifications obtainable in the member states of the union. although 9 out of 10 eu citizens consider continuing education to be an important tool for career development, the lack of resources leads to major shortcomings in the training required by today's economy. a recent eurobarometer survey shows that only 58% of respondents can use a computer, and only half of them say they are internet users. moreover, over 60% of citizens cannot use a foreign language in their work. national budgets for continuing education vary from 40% of the total used for education in the nordic countries to less than 10% in the new member states. initiatives such as grundtvig or erasmus for young entrepreneurs should be expanded and doubled in funding to make up for insufficient national funding. moreover, the european framework of reference must be supplemented by programmes establishing genuine european qualifications recognised throughout the european union.
the mafra summit on 26 october 2007 will take place on the eve of major events for the future of relations between the european union and russia. i would mention just a few: the expiry of the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement, the holding of parliamentary elections in december 2007 and the presidential elections in march 2008 in russia. this context offers the opportunity not only to urge russia to engage in an open and frank dialogue with the european union, but also to take a cold look at the last 10 years of cooperation. in addition to the previous speeches by my colleagues, i would like to focus my speech on the important role that russia should play in the common neighbourhood and the black sea region. the balance of the last 10 years shows that frozen conflicts persist in this region, and russia's economic and political relations with both the countries in the region and its neighbors, current members of the european union, are not always based on reciprocity, trust and the principle of good relations. and speaking of frozen conflicts, a recent and well-known example of this is the conditions under which the political prisoners andrei ivanchuk and tudor popa were released, which is evidence of the fact that there is instability in the area, that there is an area of insecurity that affects the entire region. the mafra summit should therefore also address these issues, recalling the fundamental objective that the european union has set itself - namely to create a genuine area of democracy, stability and prosperity in the black sea region and the common neighbourhood. in this context, russia's position and constructive involvement in this direction, in accordance with its international standards and obligations, must be a constant theme in the european union's dialogue with this country. a truly strategic partnership and a deep and mutually beneficial relationship requires increased responsibility and a firm commitment from both sides.
today's vote on mr mantovani's report is important because of the impetus it gives to european policy in the field of continuing education. by analysing the current situation in the field and its correlation with the labour market, the mantovani report shows us once again the existence of a reality that we have been living for several years, but which has not been followed by a firm and coherent policy that could meet its challenge. i therefore consider it important that the new proposals be implemented as quickly as possible. i would also like to stress the importance of recognising and promoting tolerance education throughout the european union. only then will labour market mobility not generate socially excluded groups whose behaviour sooner or later becomes deviant.
with the vote on this report, i would like to underline its importance for the future of the european citizen and the european union as a whole. the commission welcomes the strategic approach to the problem of smoking, including secondhand smoke, and the proposal for concrete and demanding measures to combat it and its negative consequences at european level. i am also convinced that a strategic approach to the problem must include as a key element a policy of tobacco prevention by developing a genuine system of education in this direction. the reality today is clear, there is a clear and growing need for awareness of the consequences of smoking in the ranks of european society as a whole. it is equally important to focus these efforts on prevention, on early education of children and young people, but also of their parents, in order to ensure a true europe without tobacco smoke for future generations.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president-in-office, i understood this speech more as a general comment than as a direct question to me. i think that what has happened is that there has been a gradual awareness in the member states and also at union level that we must all work together to give an appropriate response to the questions relating to this matter. i would also like to tell you that during the portuguese presidency and in the context of the european year of equal opportunities for all, the presidency will be organising a major conference on this issue in lisbon on 19 and 20 november, during which we will naturally try to take stock of the situation with regard to the issues that are related to this subject and also try to obtain political commitments for the future with regard to this matter.
acting president of the council. i would like to make two comments. the charter of fundamental rights is not yet fully implemented, it has not yet been published, nor has the treaty of lisbon, and so we have to wait for that moment. i cannot, of course, be projecting in october what initiatives or decisions the council may take on this matter. on the other hand, as you know, the charter of fundamental rights is not, by itself, a legal basis for legislative initiatives. as far as the transport question is concerned, it is obvious that, as long as the commission does not put forward initiatives to be adopted by the council in this field, this question remains within the competence of the member states and it is obvious that it will be up to them at national level, to the extent that they see fit, in the circumstances that they see fit and in the way that they see fit, to propose the necessary measures.
acting president of the council. mr president, madam president, the protection of children against sexual exploitation and the fight against trafficking in human beings are of great importance to the european union. in this context, i would like to refer to the council resolution of 27 september 2001 on the contribution of civil society to the search for missing and sexually exploited children, in which the council declares that the fight against the disappearance and sexual exploitation of children is a priority for the european union. to this end, the council has adopted a number of legal instruments addressing specific aspects of this issue, including joint action 97 on action against trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children, the council resolution of 27 september 2001 on the contribution of civil society to the search for missing and sexually exploited children, and finally the council framework decision of 22 december 2003 on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. recently, the proposal for a framework decision on the recognition and enforcement in the european union of prohibitions resulting from convictions for sexual offences against children, which was submitted at the initiative of the kingdom of belgium, was examined by the council together with other proposals, such as the proposal for a framework decision on the taking into account of convictions in the member states of the european union in new criminal proceedings and the proposal for a framework decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record between member states. following the negotiation process, the council decided to merge the provisions of the initiative presented by the kingdom of belgium with the instrument on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record. in this regard, information relating to the conviction of a person for sexual assault of children should be made available to the competent authorities of the member states. the council framework decision of 22 december 2003 on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography contains a definition of offences relating to the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography and calls for member states to introduce measures to ensure that such offences are punishable by a term of imprisonment of between 1 and 3 years and, in some cases, a maximum of 5 to 10 years. that framework decision sets 20 january 2006 as the date of implementation by the member states. on the basis of the notifications received by the council and the commission on the implementing provisions and the report prepared by the commission, the council should assess, by 20 january 2008, the extent to which the member states have complied with the obligations arising from this framework decision.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president-in-office, i would just like to say the following to you in relation to the various questions you have put to me. the first is that many of these measures are relatively recent or are new and therefore need an assessment of their effects, what they are producing and of course there is an assessment of what has failed, what has not failed and whether we are indeed making progress in this area. that is what we have to do and not just go around hunting for member states, trying to blame or to hold them accountable. this is a process of cooperation, it is a process of dialogue between member states on the basis of experiences that we should share with each other, and yet i think that we have made progress in this area, which is good progress in the face of situations which are, in fact, terrible from a humanitarian point of view. finally, i think that the reform treaty is also good news in this respect, because it actually promotes and makes possible closer and deeper cooperation between the member states in the fight against this type of crime.
acting president of the council. i'm not a criminal policy expert, nor the minister of justice. i am here on behalf of the council and i will say what seems to be the general feeling of the council at the moment. there is always room for more and better, but the truth is that, from the answer i gave you, there are a number of legal instruments which actually correspond to this desire to combat this type of crime effectively. as i said, many of these measures are new and it will be necessary to make a proper assessment of all of them. there is a new issue: the awareness of the member states and their public opinion of a phenomenon which, in terms of awareness of its magnitude and gravity, is indeed new, and as with new phenomena which are thus taken up and analysed, there will of course be a way forward. of course, if that is the case, we will not fail to call on those member states which may not have yet fulfilled their obligations to implement initiatives or legislation to do so as soon as possible. if there is a commitment, it must be made and implemented in this and other areas.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that, first of all, as you know, the council recalls that the conclusions of the european council in the spring of 2007 deal with the community's energy policy in a comprehensive way, including in particular the internal market, gas and electricity. the council cannot risk an opinion on whether the merger plans in their present form are in accordance with this part of the conclusions. the council stresses that these european council conclusions have been a contribution to the european commission's third energy package, presented in september 2007, which aims to further open up the internal gas and electricity market. only after agreement on the proposed regulations and directives has been reached and they have entered into force will it be possible to assess whether the merged entity gdf suez complies with the relevant legislative provisions. secondly, the council would point out that, under the treaty provisions on competition, the european commission is required to verify the compatibility of all agreements between undertakings with community rules.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president-in-office, the council adopted a number of measures at the last european council in march on energy issues. the question now is, of course, how to put them into practice. this will of course be based on proposals from the commission, and each institution and body will take up its responsibilities: the commission will put forward its proposals, the council will approve or reject them, or amend or modify them, and then, of course, the court will verify whether the member states' legislation and sanctions in practice comply with the legislation in force. that's all i'm going to say for now.
acting president of the council. madam member, by decision of 19 december 2006, the council authorised the commission to negotiate an agreement between the european community and the republic of moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, which was initialled in chişinău on 25 april 2007 and signed in brussels on 10 october 2007, by chance by myself. with a view to the swift conclusion of the agreement, the european parliament will be consulted on the draft decision on the conclusion of the agreement. on 17 october, the moldovan government adopted two draft laws on the ratification of the agreements with the european union on visa facilitation and readmission. i would like to inform the honourable member on behalf of the council that at this stage the commission has no mandate to open negotiations for a similar agreement with georgia. as regards the chişinău joint visa centre, cooperation between member states is a matter for the member states themselves to decide.
congratulations on the signing of the agreements with the republic of moldova. in this connection, i would like to point out two things: firstly, i would consider it necessary to bring to the fore in the relations between the council and the republic of moldova a situation which arose immediately after the signing of these agreements: on 12 october, at the border with the republic of moldova, official delegations from romania were denied access to the territory of the republic of moldova. because i believe that visa facilitation for a third country must ultimately be followed by reciprocity, i would be interested to know whether the council intends to address this issue. secondly, the agreements you signed refer to the moldovan language, a language which is not recognised. i would like to emphasize this all the more since there is only one language, the romanian language, which is also recognized at the level of the european union. and as far as georgia is concerned, i think that things should still go in the direction of avoiding the situation that the citizens of georgia face in comparison with the citizens of south ossetia.
according to the 2007 afghan opium survey by the un office on drugs and crime, opium production reached a record high of 8 200 tonnes, accounting for 93% of the world's opiate production. so, 40% of afghanistan's gross domestic product came from the illegal production and trade of opium, engaging 2.9 million people in the process. despite this, only 10 countries consume 80% of the world's legally available opium products, while over 150 countries have reported serious treatment shortages caused by the illicit opium trade. it should be noted that the main source of funding for the taliban and terrorist groups is the illicit drug trade. moreover, the international community's sponsorship of drug eradication or destruction is being used by tribal political and military leaders for their own benefit and to eliminate competition. on the basis of what has been said so far, i am convinced that a strategic and balanced approach to the process of reducing and controlling opium production should involve social and economic alternatives to foster the establishment of a rule of law and democratic institutions in afghanistan. that is why such a move can be one of the basic solutions in preventing and eradicating terrorism. i believe, madam president, that an anti-drug plan in afghanistan, consisting in controlling the quantities of opium by using it to obtain painkillers and other derived products, may constitute one, and not the only, alternative economic solution to reduce poppy crops.
ten years after the institution of the european ombudsman was created, i am pleased to note the evolution of its role and activities in the process of protecting the european citizen. the 2006 activity report shows that the european citizen today has a genuine forum in which to defend himself against any institution, and in fact to prevent and report on the malfunctioning of these institutions. in other words, we are talking today about a genuine instrument of democratic control, carried out autonomously and transparently, which can only be of benefit to the whole european union. i am also grateful to the rapporteur of the european parliament for pointing out the areas for improvement in the ombudsman's work today. firstly, i regret that there are still many complaints from citizens who have not been able to obtain the information they requested in their own language. this shows that in europe we still have problems in ensuring full linguistic rights and equality between citizens. we are on the threshold of 2008, the year of intercultural dialogue, and we are obliged to urgently correct these shortcomings, which are contrary to the fundamental values of the european union. finally, i welcome the communication strategy of the european ombudsman and stress the need to strengthen it. the current statistics of complaints that continue to fall outside the ombudsman's remit are a sad reflection of a poor level of information to, and understanding and awareness by, citizens of the ombudsman's remit and that of other institutions.
in writing. i support the european union budget in its current form for several reasons. the eur 553 million reduction in agriculture by the council has been largely restored and the reserve set up on the commission's administrative funds is justified by delays in the approval of sectoral operational programmes and rural development programmes. the council of ministers should not make any further cuts in the agricultural funds or the structural funds in the second reading of the european budget. the amendment tabled in plenary to limit farmers' incomes to a maximum threshold of eur 50 000 per year is unjustified. such an artificial barrier would prevent even the most efficient farmers from developing their farms profitably. in addition, this ceiling will contribute to the decline of farms and the decline of the competitiveness of european agriculture. that is why i rejected the amendment which provides for this measure. the 2008 budget in the form we are adopting today is one that holds the institutions of the european union accountable. i support the proposal to set aside eur 49 million of the commission's allocation until it has presented a clear report on its human resources policy, in particular with regard to recruiting new staff from the newly acceded states to the european union, romania and bulgaria.
in writing. the current system of holding plenary sessions at parliament's strasbourg headquarters and committee or group meetings in brussels is inefficient and uneconomic. it is estimated that over €200 million per year of european taxpayers' money would be saved if the european parliament were to be based in brussels, not only by reducing costs but also by facilitating interinstitutional work. at the same time, civil society groups are drawing attention to the serious environmental consequences of the frequent transport of european parliamentarians and officials from one city to another for the conduct of european legislative work. for these reasons, i consider the idea of keeping two plenary sessions a year at the strasbourg seat to be unfounded. this would aggravate the cost situation for the administration, since payments will be made throughout the year for the preparation of these sessions, both in terms of the costs of the premises and the costs of staff. a number of citizens' initiatives, at least one of which has over a million signatures from most member states, are calling for an end to the duality of the european parliament's seat. it is time that this situation is discussed by the leaderships of the parliament and the council with a view to establishing a single seat for our institution.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in the hope that it will have a crucial impact on serbia's decision to continue democratic reform and alignment with european standards, especially in the area of respect for minority rights. although the report welcomes the relative improvement in the situation, it still does not provide the conditions for genuine inter-ethnic coexistence and mutual respect, and cases of flagrant violation of minority rights are still numerous and serious. i am referring to a concrete example: the neglect of the rights of the romanian community and romanian-speakers in serbia, especially in the timos valley and vojvodina. i can only note today with regret that they are denied and ignored all linguistic rights, whether it is education or the practice of religious worship in the romanian language. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome.
the security of italian citizens on italian territory is the exclusive responsibility of the italian government. the romanian government cannot intervene in any way. what the romanian government can do, and has done, is cooperate and provide all the information necessary to prevent possible crimes committed by romanian citizens. the italian government has so far had no strategy to improve the situation of roma on its territory. the best proof is that the italian government made no request to receive european money for roma integration, although it was obvious that roma had for years been a problem that needed to be addressed. the member states of the european union have the right to expel citizens who commit crimes, but no european union state can have the right to expel european citizens who may be criminals, without having committed a reprehensible act. directive 38 of 2004 explains very clearly what those situations are, and the italian government decree goes beyond the spirit of the european directive. the european parliament and european officials must take a stand against decree 181 of 1 november 2007 and ask the italian parliament to ensure that the final form of the law is in line with the letter and spirit of the european directive.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome and support mr pál schmitt's report on the role of sport in education because it offers us, once again, the opportunity to be directly involved in improving the lives of our fellow citizens. by supporting physical education and sport, the european parliament is not only sending a message for a healthier life, but also for the promotion of common european values that we all inherited from ancient greece and rome. we must give more substance to the dictum mens sana in corpore sano by means of concrete measures which are often conditional on financial considerations. we therefore call on the commission, the council and the member states to find the appropriate instruments to increase investment in school infrastructure and equipment. one very effective way of doing this is through european funds for disadvantaged regions, especially in the new member states, which need to be supported in terms of increasing their absorption capacity. i also believe that the european union should initiate a sustained media campaign, especially in television programmes for children and young people, encouraging them to practice sport in order to reduce obesity, smoking and drug use, but also to promote fairness, team spirit, discipline, solidarity, tolerance and to combat discrimination. as for us, many of us, members of the european parliament, have played and continue to play sports. i think we should establish a way to reward the best initiatives in the promotion of physical education and sport, for example by giving a prize.
the european union is a community of values in which respect for fundamental rights and freedoms prevails, and its policies include the safety of citizens and the fight against crime, as well as the protection of minorities and the fight against incitement to violence. i strongly condemn the violence and the crimes and i deeply regret what happened in italy! but i believe that the abuses and injustices committed in the name of the law are unacceptable, they inspire fear and humiliation and can breed hatred within human communities. i see a tendency to escalate this situation unnecessarily, fuelled by the politically motivated and xenophobic statements made by some politicians. i am concerned that, from the information published so far, only romanian citizens have been expelled from italy. all member states have the right and the obligation to draw up legislative acts to ensure and strengthen public policy and public security. all european citizens, regardless of nationality, are obliged to respect the law and to comply with its provisions wherever they are in the european union. at the same time, however, we must condemn intolerance and xenophobia and, in particular, the unwarranted extension of resentment and stigmatisation from a few law-abiding individuals to an entire ethnic group or, worse, to an entire nation. i believe that the italian state, like all the member states of the european union, has a duty to protect the rights and freedoms of european citizens established on its territory, who integrate into the community and respect the law. a common european approach to immigration and minority integration policies is needed. the minority problem, and in particular the roma minority problem, is a european problem and must be tackled coherently and unitedly, not just in times of crisis. all relevant bodies must cooperate, in particular the european commission and the fundamental rights agency, as well as the competent institutions in the member states. i call on the european commission to review the priorities and mechanisms of the european social fund to expand funding for joint actions contributing to the social inclusion of the roma minority. at the same time, i call on the european commission to examine, as a matter of urgency, the conformity with european law of the decree-law issued by the italian authorities and to ensure that the implementation of any such provisions will not degenerate into abuses against honest people, whatever their nationality.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for addressing parliament on this very important issue. there has been a lot of emotion in italy following the murder of an italian woman by a romanian citizen. there has equally been a lot of emotion in romania following reprisals against romanian citizens by italian gangs. however, when we put away emotions, we get back to our basic values and principles: freedom of movement for all citizens, the rule of law and its conformity with european law. let me remind you, should it be necessary, that freedom of movement for european citizens is a fundamental right enshrined in the founding treaties. unfortunately, these recent events have shown us that we need to make more effort to consolidate these rights and ensure they are enforced adequately throughout europe. in today’s europe we cannot accept irresponsible authorities pointing fingers at specific nationalities or ethnic groups. neither can we accept the claim that the free movement of workers might be a route to increasing criminality, because crime has neither nationality nor ethnicity. this attitude can only lead to dangerous developments and more xenophobia. on the contrary, i believe we must continue to encourage mobility of people and give workers the same opportunities all over europe, to reinforce a strong european identity. this was the founding fathers’ genuine wish for the creation of the european union. while i reiterate that the european union must ensure all its citizens live in an area of freedom, security and justice, i believe we should also pay more attention to integration and freedom of movement. the answer to crime is not closing borders. the answer to crime is not encouraging xenophobia, discrimination and stigmatisation of nationalities or ethnic origins. the answer, in a modern europe, is more police and judicial cooperation, more integration policies, more resources for those called to serve and protect all our citizens, whatever their nationality. i would like to see a europe where all citizens can live, work and circulate freely. the european commission, as the guardian of the treaties, must now ensure that these basic rights are correctly implemented and enforced. i call on the commission to stand firm on these principles.
mr president, today i will try to forget that i am a romanian. i will try to forget, even if people are deported, attacked and killed within the borders of the european union, simply because they are guilty of being romanian either ethnically or by citizenship. today, i shall try to think as an italian and as a european. if i were italian, i would think that i should have the right to feel secure in the country of my ancestors. i would have been outraged by the miserable camps of miserable people around my country’s wonderful towns. i would have been disgusted to see an increasing number of criminals threatening the peaceful life of my compatriots. but, while looking for my security, i would realise that this is consolidated daily by the creative work of more than one million immigrants who are producing italian goods, offering services in areas left by italian labour, buying italian merchandise and paying taxes to the italian authorities. on the contrary, i would feel that my security would be weakened if those non-italian residents left my country, if their human rights were violated and if they became the subject of xenophobic practices. if the basic rights of a single human being are violated by my country’s authorities, who try to hide their weaknesses by intensifying the law behind racist concepts, xenophobic excuses and discriminatory measures, my own rights – and, moreover, everybody’s rights – are in jeopardy. it is not the first time that security has been set against democratic and humanitarian values, when some believe that fewer human and civil rights mean more security, when insecure people look for refuge within their national community, wrongly thinking that ethnic similarity brings better protection. this is false. an ordinary crime has one or several victims. racism is also a crime, but it is an extraordinary crime and everybody, including the criminal, is a victim of racism and xenophobia. racism and racial rule are therefore sources of insecurity. as a european democrat, i cannot possibly accept that diversity means more insecurity or that some criminals should be socially integrated while others should be excluded. some have the right to defence and others do not. some are given the benefit of the doubt and others are not, depending on their national or ethnic origin. as a european, i would not allow one of the member states – say, romania – to become a ghetto for the roma or a european union siberia where undesirable european citizens are deported. i can understand that the extreme right is xenophobic, but i cannot understand when the democrats resort to xenophobic and racist speech. i cannot understand the weaknesses and demagogical racist speech of the democrats, and i condemn them more than the extreme right for xenophobia. for all those reasons, we should now take alarm and mobilise. i hope that the european parliament motion for a resolution to be adopted on this issue will bring us together in defending european values and the future of europe. (applause)
in writing. crime has no nationality. i regret and condemn any criminal act, wherever it may occur, and justice must be done. but you can't stigmatize a people or an ethnic group for the act of one of its members. the fight against crime must not impede the free movement of persons, a fundamental principle of the european construction. european citizens have the right to live and travel freely without fear of persecution or violence in the member states. i ask the european commission to examine the decree recently approved in italy which allows expulsions without giving procedural guarantees to those who are expelled, all the more so when it comes to citizens of the european union. this decree allowed abuses that some romanian citizens have already endured. i call on the italian state to take action to stop the abuses. i believe that this situation must be resolved urgently in order to prevent european union citizens from being discriminated against, whether they are romanian, italian, german, spanish or french. i do not want this decree to set a dangerous precedent that calls into question the very respect for the fundamental principles of the union. this could affect the eu's credibility at home and as a global player.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the itre opinion, i can tell you that the directive was also discussed intensively in our committee. we have tried to strike the right balance between the measures needed to protect the environment on the one hand and the measures needed to ensure the competitiveness of the european aviation industry and to establish equal treatment for all air operators in the european union on the other. i am pleased to note in mr liese's report proposals also made by the committee on industry, in particular those concerning the simultaneous inclusion in the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme of all flights arriving in and departing from the community and ensuring market access for newly established aircraft operators. at the same time, i must say that i regret the solution found for determining the total quantity of allowances to be periodically distributed to aircraft operators. the 2004-2006 reporting period, accompanied by the continuous periodic decrease in the total quantity of allowances, does not take into account the fact that the aviation sector is growing in the new member states, thus putting air operators in these states at a disadvantage and at the same time may impede a competitive development of the european aviation sector, in line with the transport needs determined by the economic and social development of the european union. i appreciate that the variant voted by the itre committee, which proposes as a reference period the period 2008-2010 with the possibility of modifying the total quantity of allowances to take account of future developments in the sector, whether increasing or decreasing, better defines the framework necessary for fair competition between aircraft operators in the european union and for the competitiveness of the european economy in general. i hope that the vote this week will be as close as possible to the line adopted by the itre committee.
in writing. the inclusion of aviation in the european emissions trading scheme is a positive step, underlining europe's pioneering role in combating climate change. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. under these circumstances, it is important to resolve the technical issues. emissions reductions can be achieved by manufacturing new engine designs that deliver greater fuel efficiency, by improving aircraft aerodynamics, by using new metal alloys and composite materials for the construction of fuselages. we also have to consider research into alternative fuels. nasa has announced the launch of a program to find solutions to improve kerosene. it is therefore necessary to increase financial resources for research and development and to encourage private investment in the field, and the funds raised from the auctions under the scheme should be directed precisely to those areas of aeronautical research and innovation that are capable of providing concrete solutions. i also call on the council and the commission to continue their efforts to negotiate with international forums and with third country partners in order to obtain all the necessary agreements to avoid international litigation in the event of the application of these legislative provisions.
in writing. the romanian meps, members of the pse, will vote against or abstain on the eu-moldova agreement on short-stay visas and the readmission agreement. this does not reflect opposition to the substance of the documents, but to the inaccurate concepts included in it and which were launched by the soviet stalinist regime to accredit the idea of the existence of a moldovan language, different from the romanian one. the reference to the moldovan language remains null and void for the respective meps.
member of the commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to respond to the crisis in the mediterranean, and i would like to thank the commission for its efforts in this area. 2007 was an important year for the development of natural disaster response tools at european union level. not only did we have the largest single mobilisation of the european union's civil protection mechanism to deal with the greek forest fires, but two new legislative instruments on civil protection were also introduced. the financial instrument for civil protection and the reform of the european civil protection mechanism. in addition, as announced in september, the commission, on the basis of the european parliament's resolution on forest fires and floods, will launch a specific initiative to strengthen the european union's response capacity to disasters. the rapid and effective response to emergencies is obviously of paramount importance. especially for hazards like earthquakes, which are practically impossible to predict. however, even in the case of unforeseen events, effective response can and should be complemented by appropriate preventive measures, including early warning, in order to limit potential damage and facilitate the response to the situation. for these reasons, the commission will develop in 2008 a comprehensive initiative to improve disaster prevention in general. along with response and prevention, recovery is the third pillar of dealing with disasters such as earthquakes. in this context i welcome parliament's encouragement to the council to take forward the proposal for the solidarity fund. the civil protection financial instrument shall provide a multiannual financial framework for civil protection activities, including earthquake response actions. the new regulation has almost doubled the available resources. the commission also has specific projects to address earthquake issues and, thanks to the funds allocated by the european parliament in the 2006 budget of the european union, the commission is already supporting the step project. the project is being implemented by a partnership involving italy, portugal and germany and aims to develop a mobile earthquake assessment and management unit. the commission shares the rapporteur, mr bacali,'s call for better coordination. the events of last summer have shown that, although the response of the european union's protection policy has been impressive, there is still room for improvement. on the basis of the recommendations of the barnier report, the commission is now developing civil protection units, which are pre-determined and immediately mobilizable units of experts on disaster response issues. the rapporteur, mr vaccalis, stresses the importance of cooperation with third countries. the civil protection mechanism allows cooperation with third countries and the euromed programme for the prevention, reduction and management of natural and man-made disasters is another good example of cooperation in this area.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the regional impact of earthquakes was not an easy task, especially since it came as earthquakes do: very quickly and unexpectedly. that's why i want to congratulate my colleague vakalis on how he managed to be captain of this ship. since earthquakes have no ideological connotations, we had no vision problems between groups. our only task was to find pragmatic ways of filling a legislative gap and creating effective european response mechanisms. i would like to say that in mr vakalis' initial insights, during the documentation period for this report, we discovered that at the european union level, we have serious gaps in earthquake protection. we don't have a unified response mechanism for earthquake disaster. risk maps are missing in many european countries and regions. we don't have national legislation in many countries. we invest very little in research. we do not have a european research agenda in the field of seismic risk. seismic risk protection in insurance policies, for example, is non-existent, insignificant or even non-existent. we have no public education campaign, although we have a eurocode 8 which contains instructions on earthquake protection. for new construction, it is not applied in the town planning regulations. anyway, i've suggested other things. some of them were told by mr. vakalis. we, the party of european socialists, have reiterated our support for the establishment of a european civil protection force and have asked the commission to make a proposal to that effect. i have proposed a centralised european instrument for the prevention and management of earthquake crises. i insisted on advanced research and a european-funded programme. in all of this, mr vakalis has acted as the perfect catalyst, making excellent syntheses for compromise amendments when we threatened to make a report the size of a dictionary. that is why i believe that the report is an excellent team effort and i congratulate mr vakalis and all the colleagues who participated in this report.
mr president, firstly i would like to add my congratulations to our rapporteur, mr cornillet, for his hard and valuable work on this very complex issue. i would also like to welcome commissioner michel and to underline his call for good cooperation with our committee on development. the european consensus on humanitarian aid will play a very important role for development in humanitarian policies. i think it is very relevant that it is jointly agreed by the council, parliament and the commission. in doing so, we seek to confirm our commitment to the humanitarian principles and to put in place a foundation for working together more closely to ensure the most effective implementation of eu humanitarian aid in the years to come and help the many people who are suffering in humanitarian crises. as a member of the development committee, i am pleased that the final text includes key elements such as an explicit mention of the un resolution on the responsibility to protect and takes into account the specific needs of vulnerable populations, with special attention to children, women, the elderly, and sick and disabled people. the possibility of a yearly revision of humanitarian aid provisions is also mentioned in the text, a very important item that allows for a humanitarian response based on funding adequate to the needs. furthermore, the text mentions the idea of using local support capacities and ngos active in the field, which allows the use of expertise and knowledge of local conditions for a faster and better response to humanitarian emergencies. we must not forget that those who suffer most from disasters, natural or man-made, are those who are already in fragile situations due to poverty. they live mainly in developing countries and have few possibilities for a better life. it is important, therefore, that the european union sends a message of solidarity and support. for this to happen, a proper, quick and effective response in the event of humanitarian emergencies is essential. better coordination is also essential to achieving better linkage between relief, rehabilitation and development in order to ensure that the aftermath of a disaster claims as few human lives as possible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, in these times of globalisation and insecurity about the future, our neighbours need clear signs from the european union. they need to hear that we consider them as partners. they need to know that we support them in their transition towards democracy and a better life. therefore i welcome the commission proposal for strengthening the enp by offering our partners new incentives for reforms. as draftsman of the opinion for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i want to insist on the importance of the enp as a means of enforcing an area of freedom, security and justice that goes beyond our borders. we cannot afford to leave our neighbours dealing alone with security issues, organised crime and illegal migration. in today’s world, each of these phenomena has a global impact and these challenges are our challenges. the enp is ultimately a win-win policy. building an area of freedom, security and justice is in our mutual interest for the eu and for our neighbours, for the sake of all our people.
i appreciate mr tannock's report. we need neighbours who meet the standards of the european union, whether or when they become members of the european union. that is why i believe that the neighbourhood policy must become proactive, that is, not just to monitor developments, but to support the countries concerned in their efforts to achieve the required standards. as regards the situation in georgia, president saakashvili's decisions to hold early presidential elections, a referendum to determine parliamentary elections and to lift the state of emergency are welcome. all these measures will contribute to the restoration of a democratic climate conducive to the resumption of debate and negotiations on a viable solution to the sensitive situation in georgia. i support the need to restore the rule of law, freedom of expression and media freedom. i call on all political forces in georgia to work together to draft a law to regulate audiovisual activity that will prevent situations like the one that has happened recently. the current ruling party has since 2003 initiated and supported a coherent system of reforms in key areas which have in turn generated visible economic growth, propelling georgia on the path to a functioning market economy and genuine democracy. under the same government, the creation of mechanisms to make the implementation of the action plan with the european union more effective in practice was supported and progress on a european trajectory was intensified. at the same time, georgia has become a strategic partner in the neighbourhood policy, indispensable in resolving frozen conflicts in the area, a good mediator, an important partner in regional cooperation and a strategic ally in energy and transport cooperation projects. the demands and attitude of the opposition must be taken into account, but evaluated in the context of the entire political and economic situation both domestic and in the area. i think we need to keep a close eye on what is happening in the conflict zones in georgia, and also on the attitude of the russian federation, especially in the context of the approaching deadline for a decision on the status of kosovo.
member of the commission. mr president, the objective of this regulation is to establish a legal framework for the collection of quarterly statistics on job vacancies. quarterly data on job vacancies, broken down by economic activity, are needed by the commission and by the european central bank for economic and monetary policies. they allow monitoring of short-term trends in the labour market and help to assess the business cycle. owing to its importance, this statistic was included in the set of principal european economic indicators defined in the 2002 communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on eurozone statistics. quarterly data on job vacancies is the only one of those indicators for which a legal basis has not yet been developed. the proposed legal act will provide for a mechanism to guarantee a harmonised set of timely job vacancy data across all member states. i understand that there was a discussion on several issues addressed by the legal act proposed by the commission, and some changes were introduced. the amendments proposed in the parliament report include the changes introduced by the council, and the text proposed to you today for adoption reflects the compromise achieved between the three institutions involved – the european commission, the council and the european parliament. there is also agreement across the three institutions that the legislation should come into force as soon as possible. this opens the way for adoption of the regulation at first reading. i am grateful to the rapporteur, mr athanasiu, for his good cooperation and his understanding on this matter.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr representative of the council, mr representative of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank my colleagues who have put their trust in me by entrusting me with this report, and the fictitious rapporteur for his contribution. it is clear that data collection has become an essential tool for analysis in our society. in the case of job vacancies, this data is used both to gauge the health of the economy and to determine and guide certain policies. today, the results of job vacancy statistics have a direct impact on financial centres. the rating agencies are waiting for these numbers to give their advice. statistics, if i may say so, mr president, is a demanding subject. i would like to quote ashley here, who said: "like some of the occult sciences, statistics has its own jargon, deliberately designed to confuse the uninitiated". in the course of the joint work carried out by all my colleagues in the committee on employment and social affairs, we wanted to highlight three dimensions. firstly, the political dimension of this regulation, which is to reaffirm, even through this statistical instrument, the idea of the free movement of european citizens and unconditional access to employment without any limitations or constraints. then there is the social dimension, which is to facilitate access for every european citizen to jobs, to good jobs, to knowledge of free work within the framework of the european union. finally, the commission and the council have the credit for the technical dimension and the quality of the data. a system which has harmonized procedures, which has developed a system for collecting statistical data, means an improvement in the process of obtaining accurate information in this respect. as you know, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, until now there has been only a gentleman's agreement, that is to say, a voluntary basis for the collection of statistical data. these data must be collected in a compulsory manner, in the same way, so as not to distort their analysis. the regulation is therefore preferable to the directive as a basic act, because unlike the directive, the requirements it contains are the same throughout the community, with the member states having no power to apply it in an incomplete or selective manner, nor any choice as to the form and methods to be followed to achieve the objectives pursued. one of the objectives of the lisbon strategy is to attract more people to the labour market, but also to create more jobs, hence the need to better control information on supply and demand in this market. the quality of information is sometimes the key to success. today, everyone knows that information is power. this is also true in the economic field. the development and publication of a structural indicator of job vacancies to measure labour market tightness and skills shortages was therefore deemed necessary. in addition, the commission and the european central bank need quarterly data on job vacancies in order to monitor changes in the number of job vacancies by sector of economic activity. job vacancies are part of the european key economic indicators series and are necessary for the assessment of conditions on the labour market in the european union, the euro area, in the context of the action plan for economic and monetary union. mr president, i would like to end with the words of father pierre, who said: 'politicians often only know poverty through statistical figures. but nobody cries when they see the numbers". we must therefore be convinced of the need for a more technically suitable instrument to collect all the statistical information. we as politicians can do our part to improve the lot of people who are looking for a good job. with these statistics, we can make it easier for them to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at its plenary session on 13 march 2007, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the commission recommendation of 18 october 2005 on the crossborder collective management of copyright and related rights in the field of legal online music services. in this resolution, the european parliament called on the commission to make clear that the 2005 recommendation applies exclusively to online sales of musical recordings and to submit as soon as possible after close consultation with interested parties a proposal for a flexible framework directive, adopted by parliament and the council in accordance with the co-decision procedure, to regulate this matter while taking into account the specific nature of the digital age and safeguarding europe's cultural diversity. the european parliament also stressed that the proposed directive should in no way undermine the competitiveness of creative enterprises, the effectiveness of services provided by collective rights managers or the competitiveness of user enterprises in particular small rights holders and users and that it should, in addition, guarantee a high degree of protection and equal treatment for rightholders, ensure that the relevant provisions have a real, meaningful and appropriate impact, give priority to the use of alternative dispute resolution, ensure democratic, transparent and accountable governance within collective rights managers, promote creativity and cultural diversity, allow fair and controlled competition without territorial restrictions but with the necessary qualitative criteria, take account of the interests of users and satisfy the legitimate needs of the market, and promote the development of legitimate forms of online music services. today the european parliament asks the commission what steps it has taken to meet the expectations of the resolution.
i voted in favour of the resolution on freedom of movement tabled by the pse, alde, greens and gue/ngl groups, even though it only partially achieves the purpose for which i believe this resolution should have been drafted. i believe that the text of the resolution should have been a clearer support for european citizens residing in countries other than their country of origin, and by implication for romanian citizens residing in italy and respecting italian law. the text voted does not condemn xenophobic attitudes towards romanian citizens and does not refer to the increase in tension between the romanian community in italy and the italian people, also caused by the misapplication of the italian council of ministers decree and the statements of some italian politicians. i also believe that, as mentioned in the joint epp-de and uen resolution, the effective application of the legal provisions by the italian authorities could have prevented this situation. i ask both the european commission and the italian authorities to take account of the provisions of the joint resolution of the ppe-de and uen groups which are not included in the text adopted today.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on free movement, which was initiated by the pse and other political groups, because i believe it is extremely important that the situation in italy should not set a dangerous precedent, calling into question the very respect for the fundamental principles of the european union. i felt that this situation had to be resolved urgently in order to prevent citizens of the european union from being discriminated against, regardless of their nationality. the measures proposed by the resolution will protect all european citizens from abuse. the eu needs all its citizens, and romanians need to feel the solidarity of the european peoples because there are thousands of romanians working abroad and they are appreciated for their diligence, honesty and fairness. the charter of the union, which will be annexed to the reform treaty, lists the fundamental rights of european citizens: dignity, freedom, equality, solidarity, citizenship, justice. the eu guarantees democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minorities. in this context, the measures proposed by the resolution will also help to better integrate the roma community.
in writing. the resolution on limiting climate change to 2 degrees celsius is a very important document for our future and that is why i voted for it. climate change is a major challenge with catastrophic consequences for the environment and human communities. we are faced with a problem which must be addressed by measures in the short, medium and long term. climate change is already having a devastating effect on agriculture, water systems, forests, fauna and flora. countries such as greece, romania, bulgaria, spain, and portugal have experienced periods of drought as well as floods. the eu must reaffirm its leadership in mitigating climate change. the financial mechanisms available for protecting water resources, avoiding deforestation and promoting clean technologies need to be increased and made accessible to member states. we must leave it to each member state to define its own energy mix to secure its energy resources. at the same time, member states producing nuclear energy must ensure the safety of these installations and, in particular, proper waste management. research funding leading to less waste and more secure facilities is needed.
in writing. the report addresses a key european issue: eu labour market integration measures cannot ignore arbitrary restrictions on the free movement of workers. eight of the countries that joined in 2004 - along with romania and bulgaria - have transitional periods of at least two years and up to seven years. from the second transitional year onwards, the european institutions become actively involved in the process of authorising the transitional periods imposed by the member states. i therefore ask the european council in december to consider very seriously the question of restricting freedom of movement in the european union for all new member states and to adopt a binding common position to minimise the barriers to labour mobility. the issue of restricting access to the labour market is directly linked to the first principle suggested by the rapporteur, namely 'european action against abusive practices in certain types of non-standard contracts'. as a member of the european parliament, i have received numerous calls from romanian citizens who are being unfairly deprived of their wages and of the most basic social and health insurance conditions in the countries where they work. the regulations we will adopt on the basis of the flexicurity concept must first eliminate such situations.
mr president, i should like to salute the prime minister for being one of the not so many prime ministers who speaks the same language here in brussels as in their respective capitals. i should also like to salute him for being one of the very few prime ministers who does not hide what europe is and should be to their own people. therefore, his people support him, so there was that great ‘yes’ to the european constitution. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the prime minister on regaining for spain the right level of representation in this house, in this parliament, with effect from 2009. i think that the message of spain is clear to us, and we share this message: europe will be either social or not at all; europe will be either a global player or not at all; europe will either be able to combine solidarity with subsidiarity or it will fail; europe will either be able to offer a model of sustainable growth or it will vanish; europe will either able to offer a solution in favour of social inclusiveness, gender equality and popular empowerment or it will fall apart; europe will be able to associate multiculturalism with civic cohesion, free competition with generosity, efficiency with justice and flexibility with security, or it will become meaningless. i also share the prime minister’s point of view that security is indivisible and it should be individual, social, national and international for all. i also share his point of view on immigration. yes, the right answer to immigration challenges is integration and not expulsion; integration and not marginalisation. the right answer should be directed towards treatment of the causes and not of the symptoms. i understand very well why the prime minister does not need a new referendum for the new treaty. he already has a ‘maxi-mandate’ and, therefore, he may accept a mini-treaty. we have to ratify this treaty quickly and then restart on our way towards a more integrated europe. (applause)
in writing. the commission's proposal to improve interoperability legislation is welcomed, given the need to improve the rail transport system in the european union. national procedures for the certification of locomotives and rolling stock and for the certification of train drivers are very different, in fact preventing the free movement of train sets within the union. it is of the utmost importance that interoperability rules be extended to the entire community rail network. the tens are already designed on the principle of interoperability, so investment must be concentrated on normal rail lines and all categories of rolling stock, in order to bring them up to common european standards in the future. interoperability is a necessity, but there are also areas of the european union where rail lines compatible with high-speed trains cannot be built: mountain areas, generally isolated areas, lines through tunnels and viaducts. i believe that the legislator must make specific provisions because, on the one hand, we cannot deprive these areas of the benefits of rail transport, but we cannot discount the safety of passengers, trains and the infrastructure itself.
in writing. national railway safety rules imposed by member states are essential for the safety requirements of railway systems to be met and for interoperability between them. when any rolling stock is put into service, a legal entity responsible for maintenance shall be designated for each vehicle. i consider that the technical specifications should specify the basic parameters and technical characteristics required for the maintenance of components, sub-assemblies or assemblies incorporated or intended to be incorporated into a railway subsystem. 66% of the romanian railway is operated with speed restrictions, due to the state of the railway infrastructure, and 77% of the rolling stock is morally worn. romania needs to invest in the development of rail transport. i consider it extremely important that romania and bulgaria are quickly connected to the high-speed rail transport system. the safety of rail transport is essential. the first set of projects on common safety targets for railways aiming at improving the safety performance of the railway system in the member states shall be adopted by the commission before 30 april 2009 and the second set of projects before 30 april 2011. i ask the european commission to support the new member states in accessing the community instruments available for the development of transport infrastructure.
in writing. i welcome the council's common position, which brings some significant changes relating to the protection of minors and children, access for people with disabilities to audiovisual services and the placement of advertising products. advertisements for alcohol and tobacco are seen by young people as a way to be socially accepted among adults, and these vices are correlated with physical attraction, fun, adventure, and relaxation. moreover, heavy advertising, especially to children, of foods and drinks high in fat and sugar is undermining positive public health initiatives, such as nutrition education and proper food labelling. the european union is facing an obesity crisis, and television is making the problem worse. in spain, 48% of the advertising on the children's programme card is for sweets, fast food and chips, and in the uk, foods high in fat and sugar account for 80 to 90% of tv advertising. the council text emphasises the development of codes of conduct on advertising 'junk food' to children, as well as the introduction of filtering systems and pin codes which will enhance the protection of minors from the negative influence of audiovisual services and which will play an important role in the fight against obesity.
last sunday, romanians elected their representatives to the european parliament for the first time. romania joins the european tradition of direct elections to parliament that began in 1979. the vote in romania has shown us that we have a great responsibility towards the romanian citizens, we will have to tell them more about the european union and explain the benefits and rigors of the family we are part of. because although romania is second in favor of the european union, the turnout in these elections was relatively low, at 29.4%. but the vote was a resounding success for the european popular current. the representatives of the democratic party of romania are now almost three times more in this forum, and with our victory the share of the ppe-de in the european parliament has increased by almost 4 percentage points. i thank the romanians for their trust and you for the positive messages you have conveyed to the romanian voters.
mr. president, it is a pleasure to see you today, three days after a very important moment for romania. in accordance with the treaty of accession to the european union, romania held elections for the european parliament on sunday, six months after the original deadline. thus, the citizens of romania, european citizens, were able to directly elect those who represented them in the most democratic institution of the european union. even if the turnout was in the european average, i.e. not very high, i am convinced that by involving the new colleagues from romania, romanian citizens will become increasingly aware of the impact of the european parliament's work on their daily lives. already, by the fact that the extremist parties did not gather the number of votes necessary to join the european parliament, romanian citizens have demonstrated european maturity and responsibility. on this occasion, i congratulate all those who have been nominated by the citizens of romania to represent them in the european parliament and i hope that we will work together for the good of romanians regardless of their belonging to different political families.
member of the commission. mr president, i can congratulate you on the excellent outcome of the negotiations. we support the compromise on the table today. if you, ladies and gentlemen, confirm your agreement, we will have brought to an end two years of discussions which have demonstrated the importance of this subject for the european area of justice and for the internal market. i would like to congratulate in particular the rapporteur, mr dumitrescu, for the efficiency with which he has contributed to the success of this dossier, but also the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups. i believe that 2007 was an important year for the community's harmonization of private international law in the field of civil and commercial obligations. the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction of courts, which covers both contracts and criminal offences, will now be supplemented by the rome ii regulation on the law applicable to criminal offences, which gave rise to the first conciliation in the 'justice and security' sector in may this year, and finally by the rome i regulation. the compromise reached on article 5 is a step forward for the consumer. the article is also compatible with the brussels i regulation, which implies that a consumer cannot be sued in courts other than those of the country in which he resides. i also confirm the commission's commitment to submit studies to the co-legislator, in the context of the report on the application of the rome i regulation, on two important issues for which the compromise did not allow for harmonised rules at community level. as regards the assignment of claims and insurance contracts, appropriate measures would be taken subsequently if necessary. the general report will also deal with article 5 on consumer contracts, in particular in view of the consistency of the rules of private international law applicable to consumer contracts. i would like to make it clear, however, that this report will not deal with the substantive right of consumption. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union. if it wishes, parliament can also endorse this declaration. in order to show its right of initiative in the area of external competence, the commission, as you know, made a second statement on recital 16a. i would remind you that we intend to propose a horizontal mechanism allowing member states to conclude bilateral agreements with third countries within the community framework. the commission nevertheless accepted recital 16a in order not to prevent the agreement at first reading. finally, i would like to point out that we share parliament's view on the importance of alternative dispute resolution methods for contracts concluded via the internet. that is why we have actively promoted the development of these methods, in particular through the mediation directive and through the creation of a european network to assist consumers wishing to initiate an out-of-court procedure in another member state. i therefore hope that parliament will today confirm the agreement negotiated with the council so that the council can accept parliament's amendments at its meeting on 6 and 7 december 2007, next week.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a second piece of private international law, more specifically on the future regulation on the law applicable to contractual obligations, that is to say a piece of pure law, which is rare in the context of community law. but, despite its technical nature, this regulation is of enormous relevance to european citizens. contract law is at the heart of all economic and social life and in our single market, contracts are increasingly being concluded between actors residing in different states. this is why this instrument is so important, since it establishes uniform rules on the applicable law. the solutions which were finally adopted in the amendments which we have proposed and put to the vote are the result of a friendly, ambitious and innovative collaboration with the fictitious rapporteurs, mr gauzès, mrs wallis and mrs frassoni, as well as with the portuguese presidency and the coordinators of the political groups in the legal affairs committee, mr medina ortega and mr lehne. i also have a huge debt of gratitude to mrs maria berger, who was rapporteur before me. at first, the problems seemed insurmountable, especially for a member of parliament from a newly-member country of the european union. it should be remembered that in seeking to replace the rome convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations, the european commission has claimed, perhaps with a certain naivety, that it was seeking to bring an existing instrument into the community, when in reality it was making radical changes. this situation has led to widespread criticism that the commission has failed in its duty to carry out an impact assessment. before i go into article 5, which was the main problem we had to solve, i will outline what we have achieved. however, it is not article 5 that is at the heart of the instrument, but actually article 3, which lays down the basic principle of the parties' autonomy, and article 4, which contains the rules on the law applicable in the event that the parties have not chosen the law. in this respect, the council followed the approach adopted by the legal affairs committee. it must be said that parliament and the council have been the ones to lead the way in this codecision procedure, extending the scope of the future regulation to insurance and transport contracts, clarifying the rules on police laws and mandatory provisions. turning now to the contentious question of article 5, it must be said that this was a total victory for parliament. it reflects the close and friendly cooperation between the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs. the problem was that the european commission's proposal broke with the rome convention by saying that, subject to certain exceptions, consumer law should apply to contracts between the consumer and the trader. the difficulty with article 5 as proposed by the commission was that traders, especially e-traders, should have had contractual terms tailored to each member state of the union. this would have been unaffordable for small and medium-sized enterprises which do not have the same resources as large multinationals. this would have resulted in a huge barrier to entry for small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to do e-commerce within the internal market. the rapporteur is very aware that small and mediumsized enterprises are the driving force of the european economy and create jobs and innovation. in addition, small member states were concerned about being excluded from the e-commerce market. the solution which was finally adopted was to return to a simplified version of article 5 of the rome convention. the new article 5 establishes the principle that consumer law applies while allowing the parties to choose the law. in practice, since most contracts between consumers and traders are take-or-leave-type contracts, this means that traders will impose their own law. however, since article 5 provides that the choice of law is subject to the mandatory provisions of the consumer's country of residence, it provides a very favourable solution for consumers. the new article 5 we are proposing therefore provides a win-win solution where the consumer enjoys the maximum guarantees of protection and where small and mediumsized enterprises will be free to offer their goods and services on the internet, on the basis of contracts regulated by their own law. finally, it should be noted that a small recital provides that the community may in future adopt standard contractual conditions for electronic contracts between consumers and traders. the last important step is the inclusion of insurance contracts, which has been the subject of long negotiations between the member states - commissioner frattini spoke about this - and of transport contracts. the last point that must be mentioned is that it seems that the united kingdom, which had initially decided not to take part in the adoption of the regulation following its reservation against the rome convention, has decided to take part in the light of the text of the negotiations. we therefore recommend this text, which we believe represents a very positive outcome for consumers and businesses, and a clear demonstration of the effective contribution that parliament is able to make in the context of the codecision procedure, even in such delicate cases. the president of the council has assured us that if the amendments in the first block of the voting list are adopted, we will have an agreement at first reading. this is an extraordinary and unexpected success for parliament and the presidency, to which your rapporteur, from a brand new country, romania, has made his small contribution. i am also very proud of the fact that my term as a romanian member of the european parliament is coming to an end.
the rapporteur. mr president, i had already asked to speak, but you preferred to give the floor to mrs mccarthy, which i understand because she is a lady. that said, we are in the middle of a voting procedure and i would ask you to start with rule 5 and amendment no 77. i propose that we reject the gue amendment so that we can vote for a bloc resulting from the compromise we have reached with all the other political groups. in this way we can hope, thanks to the decision of the council and the commission, to achieve approval at first reading. thank you.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution in the hope that it will have a concrete impact on the situation in georgia and on its decision to pursue democratic reform firmly, but also on the process of strengthening eu action in that country and in the eastern neighbourhood in general. as rapporteur on cooperation in the black sea, i would like to reiterate the importance of creating an area of political stability and effective democracy in this region. my draft report mentions this area as one of the key priorities of regional cooperation, and the situation in georgia confirms the imperative need to promote and strengthen cooperation in this area. three elements seem to me essential in this respect: the strengthening of democratic reform within georgia, the establishment of good neighbourly relations in the region and the constructive involvement of russia in this process and, finally, the eu's deeper and more active involvement in the effective stabilisation and democratisation of georgia and the black sea region in general.
mr president, the european commission is preparing a report at the end of the year on the state of barriers to access to the labour market. in my view, this report must necessarily emphasise the following two points: restrictions on the new member states are not justified, since their accession has not caused imbalances in the markets of the other member states of the european union; secondly, these restrictions must not exceed the first two years provided for by european labour legislation. the 2+3+2 formula tends to be used in the member states in response to some current political needs. i therefore believe that a firm position of the european institutions from the first two years is necessary to stop the unjustified blocking of labour mobility. i also want to reaffirm the principle of community preference in the context of parliament's discussion of the european blue paper, which will create the possibility of importing a workforce of over 20 million people from outside the european union. it is therefore unusual for workers from newly acceded eu countries to be treated more strictly than workers from third countries.
mr president, climate change is one of the most complex problems facing the international community. the bali conference is currently bringing together delegates from 190 countries, hundreds of experts and nongovernmental organizations and over 1,400 journalists. the common objective is to establish a roadmap for reducing climate change beyond 2012. we can respond to the challenges of climate change by developing scientific research, adapting to climate change, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, developing and implementing a global energy strategy. in the context of the bali conference, the union must take a leading role in the fight against climate change. the measures that the union has already taken in certain areas such as aviation, the promotion of cleaner vehicles, the quality of fuels, the quality of air, will not only have an impact on the fight against climate change, but also give an impetus to economic development.
mr president, today i intend to address the issue of the right balance between the fight against corruption and democracy. the international image of corruption in some countries, romania included, is so powerful that it has apparently generated the belief that, in order to fight it, even bending democracy is permitted. consequently, brussels continuously calls for and salutes vocally the strengthening of the instruments to fight corruption, but usually keeps silent when those very instruments are abused, being primarily designed for internal political consumption. therefore, if the fight against corruption remains a priority – and it should stay so – the praise one gets from the keepers of democracy should be equally accompanied by criticism of exaggerations and breaking of fundamental citizens’ rights. otherwise, under the pretence of fighting corruption, democracy itself will be gradually undermined, and, frankly, i consider that equally, if not more, damaging.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur. a key element of the european maritime strategy is to recognise the negative effects of human activity on the ecosystem and to increase efforts to counter these effects. human development and tourism along the coasts have a major impact on the marine environment through increased fishing, shipping and leisure tourism. climate change, waste, fishing, acoustic, biological and chemical factors threaten marine waters and this directive is an important step towards improving the integrity of ecosystems and conserving biodiversity. the oil and sulphur pollution of the black sea and the sea of azov, which was recently caused by a storm and which led to the sinking of several commercial ships, will affect us for at least 10 years. the disaster was caused by a system failure, as the vessels were intended for river navigation and not maritime, which highlights the lack of efforts to prevent and protect the marine environment. this serious accident makes it difficult to improve the ecological condition of these waters, already ranked among the most polluted marine areas in the world. the degradation of the black sea waters affects both public health and marine biodiversity, and considerable efforts are needed to restore the integrity of the ecosystem. moreover, shipping of dangerous goods must comply with the requirements of international conventions and ensure a minimum of safety in order to prevent these disastrous accidents in the future, which cause significant damage to both marine life and human life. this directive will ensure that the eu's marine environment is better protected and that human activities and transport do not affect water quality and biodiversity.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating mr kramer on his report. the proposal for a directive on ambient air quality and cleaner air for europe addresses the link between air quality and public health and proposes community measures to improve air quality in europe. urban traffic generates 40% of carbon dioxide emissions and 70% of other pollutant emissions from motor vehicles, and road congestion, concentrated mainly in metropolitan areas, costs the european union about 1% of gdp. in many european capitals, traffic congestion and pollution are serious problems for the inhabitants. over 66% of european citizens consider urban congestion and pollution to be problems that seriously affect their quality of life and call for the union to act in a coherent and particularly firm manner. at the european council of 8 and 9 march 2007, the european union made a firm commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% below 1990 levels by 2020. the union and the member states must concentrate their actions on metropolitan and urban areas, but the issue of air quality in urban areas must be tackled more ambitiously, respecting the principle of subsidiarity, and applying a strategy of cooperation and coordination at european level. the green paper on urban mobility promotes the development of public passenger transport, but also addresses measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from road transport. as regards amendment no 31, i would point out that some measures in the field of mandatory technical standards to reduce pollution from land vehicles and inland waterway vessels have already been dealt with in other legislative acts. i think it is extremely important that parliament is informed every five years about the progress made by the member states in improving air quality, but i think it is especially important that these measures can also be financed by the structural funds.
in writing. the european air quality directive will improve the health of european citizens and contribute to raising the standard of living in urban areas. by virtue of the binding nature of the legislative act, this is done throughout the european union. a sensitive point of the directive is the financing of adjustment measures to the targets set by the member states by 2010 and 2015. as a first step, a considerable financial effort will be required to set up air pollution sampling and measurement centres. the structural funds already allocated to the eligible member states for environmental policy will also be available for the achievement of the objectives described in the directive, but this will reduce the amounts originally estimated. i believe that an additional budget line should be established once the directive enters into force. at the same time, they support the inclusion of a flexibility clause allowing member states a transitional period of up to two years, provided they can demonstrate that they have made considerable efforts to achieve air pollution reduction targets.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and appreciate the importance of this proposal for a regulation on statistical data on housing collected by the member states. member states should use a common system of standard data to be collected and reported regularly. accurate and accurate housing statistics enable the union and the member states to implement appropriate policies in this field. however, any data collection must respect the privacy of individuals. the union is not based on economic criteria alone, but we must build a social europe. a decent life obviously requires a decent home. unfortunately, in the union today there are over 60 million citizens living below the poverty line, and the most at risk of poverty are children. these people obviously also have difficulty in having a decent home. the main social and demographic trends affecting social housing policies are generated by population ageing, population migration within the union, migration of the population from rural to urban areas and the predominant development of urban areas. however, there is no single model applicable in all member states: in some member states there are a large number of dwellings, in which many generations of the same family live together. austria, finland, the czech republic and poland have programmes for social housing for young people. in france, germany, hungary, spain, and britain, the number of single-person dwellings has increased. in romania, 95% of housing is privately owned and only 5% of housing is rented or social housing. in denmark, 47% of housing is occupied by tenants or is social housing, in austria 42%, in finland 37%, in france 44% and in germany 57%. statistics are only the starting point for developing appropriate housing policies for each member state. these policies are dependent on the allocation of public funds at national, regional or local level, but also on developments in the property market. i believe that the member states should also use the structural funds, especially those for regional development, for housing construction. the housing problem requires an approach based on statistical data, but also a global, multidimensional approach based on national and community law. but a pragmatic approach based on the needs of citizens is also needed. unfortunately, there are european citizens living in inadequate, unsafe housing, but there are also european citizens who have no home and no roof over their heads. what is europe's response and support to the needs of these citizens?
madam president, i would first like to congratulate our colleagues, the rapporteurs and the fictitious rapporteurs, who have taken on the difficult task of presenting to us this complex and essential package of amendments for the future of the common agricultural policy. it is clear that the very large number of european regulations and directives that farmers must comply with makes it difficult for them to access support schemes. the rules of the single payment scheme should be simplified as regards cross-compliance. the legal basis allows the application of the minimum rule for reductions in payments, but also for exemptions from reductions in the case of minimum deviations. reduced administrative burdens, harmonised checks, the combination of checks, including at the level of the european institutions, and the timely payment of payments would improve overall support to farmers, thus improving the efficiency of the common agricultural policy. it is also necessary to provide increased assistance for the preparation of inspections, which should, in my view, be announced with limited duration and carried out by appropriately trained persons. finally, in the case of bulgaria and romania as new member states, it seems to me appropriate to extend the optional nature of articles 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9 until 2013 in so far as the provisions of those articles concern regulatory management requirements.
in writing. the romanian meps of the european socialist group abstained from voting on the report on the agreements between the ec and georgia, lebanon, the maldives, moldova, singapore and uruguay on certain aspects of air services because of the reference in the text of the agreement with the republic of moldova to the moldovan language in the phrase 'done at luxembourg in duplicate in the bulgarian, czech, danish, dutch, english, estonian, finnish, french, german, greek, hungarian, italian, latvian, lithuanian, maltese, polish, portuguese, romanian, slovak, slovenian, spanish, moldovan and swedish languages and in the swedish language'. the delegation of the romanian social democrats stresses that romania's participation in this agreement does not imply the recognition of the name of the language "moldovan". romanian meps from the european socialist group reiterate that, respecting factual and scientific evidence, including the interpretation of the academy of sciences of the republic of moldova (from september 1994), the correct name is romanian. it should be borne in mind that in many other agreements the commission has used the neutral wording 'done at ...... on ........ day of ........... of ............ in duplicate in each of the official languages of the parties, each of these texts having equal legal value'. we regret that this wording has not been used in the case of the agreements with the republic of moldova and recommend that this neutral wording be used in official documents on eu relations with the republic of moldova.
mr president, the european union's 2008 budget is a pragmatic budget, one that is focused on results and on the european union's current development priorities. throughout the budgetary procedure, the european parliament used its power of scrutiny over the other institutions to promote the main objectives of the lisbon strategy, economic competitiveness and employment. parliament has put funds in reserve for the commission because of the shortcomings in the system for approving operational programmes, because overrunning deadlines means money lost by the european citizen. the same is true of delays in recruiting staff from the new member states, which has led to significant costs and has affected the work of the european institutions. i therefore consider it very important that, after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament's powers will be significantly extended, codecision will become the general rule and parliament's veto in adopting the budget will be extended to agriculture. the solutions found to finance the european union's major technological projects, galileo and the european institute of technology, lead to serious support for research and development. but we must ensure that european support is distributed evenly and does not widen the differences in technological and information development that already exist between member states. as a technical solution to finance these programmes, the use of agricultural margin should not become the rule. agriculture must not be a predetermined field whose funds are systematically diverted. i am very pleased with your support for increasing the amount of money for the european school dairy funding programme and extending it to other products. last but not least, i believe that it is very important for the european union to become more involved in education in general and in the expansion of scholarship and continuing learning programmes in particular. i therefore thank you for supporting the amendment which sought a significant increase in the budget for this area for next year.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the european institutions for producing this report, which is a true indicator of the importance the european union attaches to human rights and the promotion of democratic values throughout the world. it's a detailed report, and i appreciate the initiative to expand it to new areas. at the same time, in keeping with this logic of improvement, i would like to highlight three areas of major importance which should be the priority for european action in the future. first of all, i would like to stress the importance of promoting and respecting human rights as a guarantor of peace in europe. today's europe is a globalised and multi-ethnic europe, and mutual recognition and respect for our rights and freedoms must be at the heart of promoting tolerance and understanding. the european union has a long-standing commitment to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the european union is committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in parallel, the promotion of roma rights and their integration into the european community, including through the creation of a responsible agency in this field, must be further strengthened. equally important is the human rights situation in the european union, which aspires to be a promoter of human rights and therefore a reference in this field. in this connection, i cannot but express my concern about the recent deterioration of the situation of romanians in italy, which has led to massive violations of their rights. i therefore call on the commission and the council to act firmly to restore the rights of romanians and to prevent such situations in the future. finally, i would like to draw the attention of the council and the commission to the need to strengthen the european union's evaluation mechanisms in the context of the annual human rights reports. only by knowing the concrete results will we be able to develop these actions in a coherent and effective way. the examination and evaluation of the european union's actions at regional level, including in the framework of the development of synergy in the black sea, should also be integrated into future reports.
madam president, the proposal to amend the regulation on common rules in the field of civil aviation and to establish the european aviation safety agency aims to improve civil aviation safety in europe. the amendments are intended to extend the original scope of the regulation to aircraft used in community airspace, obviously within the limits imposed by the chicago convention. one of the controversial issues is the certification of flight attendants. the commission has continuously taken action to improve aviation safety; it has regularly published a blacklist of companies that do not meet the safety standards imposed by the european union. there's already the sixth list published. air transport is a fast-growing industry and that growth cannot be achieved without adhering to safety standards. low-cost carriers are also part of this growth and it should be noted that in 2006 alone some 300 new routes were created, which meant a number of about 1800 flights per week. according to a recent study, in 2006 alone, low-cost carriers carried 140 million passengers, with a presence in 280 european airports. low-cost companies directly or indirectly provide 427 thousand jobs. i consider this regulation to be extremely important for the safety of air transport. although there is the possibility of sanctioning non-compliance with safety rules, we must not create a bureaucratic system, but a flexible one that helps improve air transport. i also think it is important to recognise certificates for cabin crew. i congratulate the reporter.
the author's substitute. madam president, the subject we are discussing is a request that the committee on transport has had for some time and that it has addressed to the european commission to present a model for the internalisation of external costs, applicable to all modes of transport. in fact, i have asked the commission to present, by june 2008 at the latest, after considering all options, including costs related to environmental protection, noise, traffic congestion and health, a general applicable, transparent and comprehensive model for the assessment of all external costs, which would define and serve as a basis for the subsequent calculation of infrastructure charges. on the basis of the interim results obtained in developing this model, the commission should indicate whether overall environmental costs, such as climate change costs and recently published health costs, are analysed in the interim report and whether they will be considered as a substantial factor in the subsequent assessment and calculations. i would like to mention that the directive we are referring to gives member states the possibility of introducing a road fee and of taking into account more cost elements in its calculation than has been the case so far. in fact, there is a discussion about including so-called external costs, such as environmental costs, in the road tax. many member states are against including these costs in the toll because they believe that there is no sustainable model for this calculation, but other member states believe that these taxes will bring in revenue and that this will create the funds needed for infrastructure development. i would also like to mention that it is extremely important to ensure fair competition between the different modes of transport, but also to ensure a reduction in noise caused by transport. i believe that this proposal which the european commission has to come up with will also help to improve transport efficiency and, in particular, the efficient use of the different modes of transport and of course contribute in general to the sustainable development of transport.24.1% of greenhouse gas emissions in the 27 member states come from or are due to the transport sector. so it's important, however, to know whether environmental costs like climate change will be part of this proposal. i would also like to mention that the eurovignette directive allows member states to include an additional charge for certain sensitive roads such as the mountainous regions of the alps and pyrenees. any revenue thus collected should also be reinvested in alternative means of transport and related infrastructure. i would also like to ask the commission whether it can confirm that, after the ratification by the european union of the protocol on transport under the alpine convention, the provisions of the said protocol on the application of certain freight charges will be taken into account in this model. i hope commissioner barrot will give us details of the date on which a new amendment to the current eurovignette directive will be launched by the commission. i would like to conclude this presentation with two additional questions, namely, i would like to ask the commission whether these external costs will be internalised not only for road transport but also for other means of transport, in order to ensure a balance in the development of the different modes of transport, and i would also like to ask the commission how it intends to monitor the implementation of this new eurovignette directive.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, the simplification of the community system for the information and promotion of agricultural products on the internal market and on third markets is part of the european parliament's objective of simplifying the legislative framework. this document is also extremely important because we are also discussing the reform of the common agricultural policy at this time and in this context the community mechanisms for the promotion of agricultural products must play an important role. fruit and vegetable and wine reforms will only succeed if europe also manages to promote its agricultural products properly. the agricultural sector directly employs 5% of the people able to work in the european union and thus contributes to 1.6% of the european union's gdp. once the new treaty enters into force, the codecision procedure will also apply to the common agricultural policy. as socialists, we support a global and gradual opening of the market, but also with fair and above all reciprocal rules. our agricultural model implies high standards in the social, environmental and food quality fields. this also implies that some costs are borne by farmers, but it must be mentioned that environmental protection must also be taken into account. the quality of our products must be the main point of international trade. as socialists, we believe that the 'made in europe' brand must be established, identified and also linked to the quality of products according to european standards; and the promotion of european union agricultural products is extremely important. i congratulate the reporter.
in writing. the signing of the new treaty at the european council on 13-14 december reforms the community institutions but, above all, increases the power of european citizens to have a say in european legislation. after ratification of this new treaty, the parliaments of the member states will also include the commission's legislative proposals in their own agendas, thus increasing the degree of democracy in the union. we would have liked a chapter of this treaty to be the european charter of fundamental rights of the european union itself. unfortunately, it is only an annex to it, but it creates the legal basis for the binding nature of its provisions. the six chapters of the charter guarantee the right to dignity, freedom, solidarity, equality, justice and citizenship. the adoption of its provisions will make it impossible in the future to discriminate against european citizens on grounds of nationality, ethnicity, religion, age, sex, etc. the treaty also gives the union the power to promote the fight against climate change at international level and guarantees adequate social protection for all its citizens. the union is not based on economic criteria alone. we must build a social europe based on solidarity, economic, social and territorial cohesion. adoption of the new treaty requires unanimity in the council and ratification by all signatory states by june 2009.
in writing. i am in favour of adopting the european commission's legislative programme for next year and i believe that it reflects very well the political priorities of the european union. however, the legislative proposals that the commission is preparing on private company and small and medium-sized companies legislation should not affect policies of member states that have contributed significantly to economic growth in recent years, such as the single tax rate. the recent european commission communication on the 'health check' of the common agricultural policy is also a good basis for interinstitutional negotiation. to this end, the european commission must table legislative proposals that fundamentally change provisions of the common agricultural policy pending the conclusion of the debates between the european institutions and the member states. last but not least, i regret the lack of legislative initiatives in the area of the common visa policy, as regards the reciprocity of granting free movement of persons between the european union and third countries. i would remind the european commission that 12 member states, representing over 100 million citizens of the european union, are still excluded from the visa waiver program for the united states of america.
ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are debating this afternoon is one of the greatest importance for the future of the european union and for the security of our citizens and our values. in recent years, extremism has been a growing phenomenon in the public life of european countries, raising many alarms and many question marks about how to combat it. although various causes from different backgrounds have contributed to the scale of this phenomenon, i would like to emphasize one key aspect of the debate created on the fringe of extremism, namely immigration. immigration is identified by extremist groups as the ultimate evil in european countries, because it is a topic that can be exploited by them to explain the unwanted changes in their societies. but as we all know, immigration is a vital element for the economies of european countries and it promotes economic growth. its undesirable effects, which arise from the misadaptation of immigrants to the societies that receive them, must be addressed by specific eu methods. otherwise we risk altering the very values at the very heart of the european construction. therefore, we cannot accept extremist parties to change the agenda of traditional parties. if we apply such a strategy to try to reduce the risks and dangers posed by these groups and to prevent them from getting votes from our citizens, we will only be giving legitimacy to their ideas and methods. we cannot allow extremist messages to be adapted and promoted as law in the member states. such action is tantamount to destroying the vision of a multicultural and multiethnic europe. the crisis caused by the roma problem and the extremist demonstrations in italy must not set a dangerous precedent for the fundamental principles of the european union on the freedom of goods, services, capital and persons. we must explain to our citizens that such an attitude would be harmful both to their societies and to the european union as a whole. the results of the elections to the european parliament in romania can be an example of this. no extremist grouping reached the threshold of votes needed to send its representatives to the european parliament.
mr president, we are seeing in europe a constant increase in extremist, nationalist and populist movements that endanger our democratic system. in an ideal world, democracy is government of the people by the people and for the people. in fact, democracy is still the ‘least bad’ political system if it has proper checks and balances. however, the paradox of democracy is that it contains the possibility of its own death, in allowing the expression of populist and extremist opinions which erode the democratic system itself. in many european countries, there are parties that have succeeded in positioning themselves at the heart of political life with populist and demagogic discourses. european history has shown how extremist parties, dressed in democratic clothes and using populist and nationalist propaganda, have often led democracy to dictatorships. the best way to fight intolerance is to stand firm, to defend our democratic values and institutions, to defend individual rights, justice, equal opportunity and diversity, but also to sanction any discourse instigating hatred, segregation or discrimination. as robert kennedy said, ‘what is dangerous about extremists is not that they are extreme, but that they are intolerant. the evil is not what they say about their cause, but what they say about their opponents.’ healthy democracies need active citizens. democracy can only function if citizens are conscious and exert their civic rights and duties. we need to reinvent citizenship. we need new ways to learn democracy. we need to ensure that our education systems promote the development of an active, critical and engaged citizenship. in a global world, we imperatively need a citizenship that celebrates diversity and promotes understanding and tolerance.
mr president, a mayor rails against immigrants claiming that immigration is a source of insecurity; another mayor declares his city free of foreigners; a head of state speaks about the parliament as a gang of outlaws, instigates the people to mutiny against the legislators and glorifies a democracy without opposition and without parties. a group of parliamentarians today, in a hooligan manner, called for direct so-called ‘popular democracy’ which would replace elections with referendums. an outstanding public leader expresses support for the violent groups which stormed the parliament building of a democratic state and asked for the revision of the peace treaties. a number of journalists express daily – even if sometimes in politically correct vocabulary – xenophobic, anti-parliamentarian, anti-pluralistic, anti-roma, anti-islamic, exclusivist, intolerant, discriminatory and chauvinistic views. a minister asked the european commission to make money available in order to concentrate a certain undesirable ethnic community in the poorest countries of the union. all these are facts, taking place in the european union and committed by persons reputed to be democratic members of the mainstream democratic parties. here, today, we condemn the extremist parties and their organisation. this is just because they are perpetrators of intolerance and intolerance should not be tolerated. but what about the facilitators? the populists disguised as democrats who, by weakening the democratic institutions and relativising the democratic principle, create the most favourable environment for extremists? if we keep speaking only about symptoms and perpetrators, remaining silent or passive when it is about the causes and facilitators, we are going to jeopardise our values. this must not happen.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that today's debate was of extraordinary interest - of extraordinary interest and also of high political level - and i thank all those who spoke, including those who said things that i do not and do not agree with. there are some who have criticised the need and the importance of bringing this issue to the house, which i think was extremely important. a theme has been raised that is a very highly political theme: the question of the balance between the right to freedom of expression, which is one of the rights recognized in the charter of fundamental rights, and other fundamental rights such as the dignity of the human person, equality and non-discrimination. i would say that those who have raised this issue, thinking that freedom of thought can be asserted in order to offend and excite fundamental human values, have misused the call for freedom of thought. i always speak quite frankly, even when i have opinions contrary to those who spoke before me. someone said: "if the people express themselves in a referendum against the bill of rights, this will be an expression of freedom". i do not agree, because to call for a referendum against the charter of fundamental rights is to call for a referendum against the citizens, because it is clear that it is the citizens who are the holders and protagonists of the fundamental rights that we must protect today. it is not because we should deny this principle, but because it is not an extremist who defends fundamental rights, but who violates them, who denies them, who wants to assert the right to incite a square or a group of violent people to destroy jewish graves. this is not freedom of expression, this is violence that must be eradicated by politics and punished by the instruments of the law. these are, i believe, the two actions that europe can propose with absolute discretion. we must not minimize, we must not think that a single fact can be underestimated because it is unique, if a single fact is a symptom of racism, of intolerance, of a profound disregard for human values, we must also be concerned about a single fact, even a single act of violence! many of you have raised another issue, which is an extremely important issue: the question is whether the political forces, in the name of the free expression of political thought, can tolerate the propagation of racist messages. i believe that those who make politics have a special responsibility, that of being elected by citizens avoiding stirring up the crowd against other citizens or against other people: it's a sense of responsibility. i find it difficult to believe, frankly, that the instruments of the law, the police, the intelligence services can be used to make a thorough analysis of this or that party. but when this or that party publicly proclaims that its intention is to restore racial supremacy, there is no freedom of thought here, there is an attack on a profound foundation of europe. these are the reasons that can justify repressive action, we are not talking about censorship, we are not talking about violation of free speech. i will defend the right of those who disagree with me to say what they mean to say, but i cannot defend the right of those who disagree with me to incite the mob or other people, to attack, to injure, to kill. this is not free speech! that is why today's subject is a central one and i will propose a similar reflection when we discuss that devastating form of extremism which is terrorism, because we do not distinguish, for the sake of charity, between the message of propagating racial hatred and the message of one who believes that killing with terrorist attack is a possible answer to the problems of society. both are forms which, in my view, must be tackled at european level by means of education, prevention and the promotion of tolerance, but also by means of the law and the instruments of repression. we can be satisfied when we are sure that there is no place in europe for racists, bigots and terrorists.
in writing. the european union must combat extremism of all kinds, insofar as this activity is contrary to the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights on which the union is founded. this is why, at european level, counter-extremism and counter-terrorism actions must not affect the fundamental rights of citizens. extremist movements, paramilitary groups, ultra-nationalism, xenophobia, calls for violence and local ethnic and religious conflicts threaten the stability of the european union, which is characterised by the rich cultural and traditional diversity of its member countries. the latter must join forces to counter extremist actions and identify instigators and organisers of such actions. the european agency for fundamental rights will also play an important role in preventing racism and xenophobia, ensuring a climate of security in the union. dialogue, education of the people and public information on issues related to the promotion of tolerance and the fight against racism are important elements contributing to the dissemination of the principles of freedom and democracy. member states must also cooperate and work towards the integration of socially and ethno-culturally marginalised groups, so that discrimination and incitement to violence ensure ethnic and political harmony within the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, as a result of the recent violent storms in the black sea, four ships have sunk and seven have been damaged, including two tankers. the accidents occurred in the kerch strait, which connects the black sea to the sea of azov and is the main route for russian oil exports to europe. 2,000 tons of tar spilled into the sea, and the sunken vessels were carrying over 7 tons of sulfur. the ecm civil protection has sent a team of 7 experts to the scene to assess the effects and identify the necessary measures. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament on the commission communication on black sea synergy, i called for the union to become a leader in promoting the principles of the common maritime policy and in developing maritime transport routes in this region. the package of legislation on maritime transport is important for the black sea region. the port control directive and port security directive 65/2005 will increase the safety of maritime transport in the region. in 2006, more than 4650 inspections were carried out on ships belonging to 83 flags under the black sea memorandum. following inspections by the authorities of bulgaria, georgia, romania, the russian federation, turkey and ukraine, 69.39% of the vessels were found to be defective and approximately 6% of them were detained. of the total number of vessels detained, 8.7% were cargo vessels, 2.9% were passenger vessels, 2.7% were chemical vessels and 0.5% were oil tankers. these detentions were due to deficiencies in navigational safety systems, lack of life-saving equipment and malfunctions in equipment and structures that ensure the stability of ships. also, the black sea states, including georgia, are on the paris memorandum blacklist, and the other five black sea states are on the grey list. i believe that the union must do more to increase maritime safety in the region. the european maritime safety agency, together with the paris memorandum secretariat and member states, will fund studies and programmes to increase maritime safety. from 2007, the agency will support member states through assistance in capacity building in the prevention and control of marine pollution by toxic substances. the commission has already implemented projects through the ten-t budget for the development of maritime routes in the baltic sea region, the mediterranean and the seas of western europe. i ask the commission to carry out a similar study for the black sea region and i also ask that the cleanseanet service developed by the agency, which allows oil spots to be detected and european waters to be monitored, be used in the black sea region as well.
mr president, the incident in november caused ecological damage to both the black sea and the sea of azov, demonstrating that marine waters have no borders and that oil spills from accidents outside the european area can also affect the coastal ecosystems of the member states. the sunken ships that led to the pollution of the black sea were intended for river navigation, not maritime, resulting in tons of oil being spilled into the sea and affecting natural marine habitats. over 15,000 birds and dolphins were covered in scabbard dust, and several rare species of flora and fauna on the coast and on the black sea floor were destroyed, requiring considerable efforts to restore the integrity of the black sea ecosystem. the degradation of aquatic life is fraught with negative consequences, as it affects ecological security and the quality of life and health of the population. the acute decline in the black sea's biodiversity is a cause for concern because of continued ecosystem degradation, illegal fishing and overexploitation of natural resources, and oil spills are contributing to the environmental degradation of this area, considered the most polluted in the world. the eu's heads of state or government have committed themselves to halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010, and these objectives must also be respected in the context of the marine sector. in the european union we need to ensure that shipping is safe and that maritime borders are protected as effectively as possible against cross-border threats. moreover, the new green paper on market instruments for environmental policy aims to improve the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle and hopes to have a positive influence on the methods of preventing such environmental disasters.
ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur on regional cooperation in the black sea, i welcome the organisation of this debate, but i also deeply regret that the subject of our discussion is in fact a sad observation of the fact that the black sea is still not enjoying the necessary attention from the european union and a satisfactory level of implementation of the envisaged actions. i would like to remind you, however, that with the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, the black sea has become a large part of our internal territory and we cannot ignore its strategic importance for the whole union. the black sea region is of major importance from the point of view of the european union's energy and transport policy. but this requires us to develop a comprehensive and coherent strategy for the whole region, one that would aim at ensuring security, sustainable development and a deep integration of environmental protection issues. moreover, to promote a genuine regional policy, joint efforts by all the riparian countries are needed, going beyond the national and bilateral framework. in this respect, i welcome the launch of the black sea synergy in 2007, but i reiterate a key aspect of my report, namely the need to take concrete and firm steps to develop and implement this cooperation initiative, both within the region and between it and the european union. the tragedy of the black sea oil spill on 11 november 2007 has shown us that we must strengthen our efforts in this area. the european union must play a fully central role, both in its deeper involvement in developing synergy in the black sea and in encouraging its neighbours and partners to do so. only in this way will we be able to respond effectively to the expectations and calls of our citizens who are suffering today from the direct consequences of the disaster of 11 november.
the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a number of resolutions on the situation in the middle east. in parallel with the creation of the fundamental rights agency and the proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights, the decision to conclude a cooperation agreement between the above-mentioned agency and the council of europe is part of the european union's efforts to strengthen its performance and its role as a promoter of human rights, both internally and externally. i would like to point out two aspects that i think are important in this area. firstly, i welcome the intention to achieve through this agreement a dual objective of making european human rights policy more effective and at the same time more robust, and of ensuring coherence and avoiding duplication. only in this way will we be able to further promote respect for the fundamental principles laid down by the european convention on human rights and supplemented by the charter of fundamental rights, including by strengthening our own mechanisms in this regard. secondly, we welcome the intention to deepen cooperation in the context of concrete projects for the protection of human rights launched by the council of europe. this way of interacting will allow us to continue to contribute to improving the human rights situation by acting on concrete cases, both internally and externally. i would like to point out that such cooperation must be promoted, in particular, in the european countries neighbouring the european union, with a view to creating a genuine area of democracy at the union's external border. as rapporteur on regional cooperation in the black sea, i call on the european institutions to support regional cooperation projects. i consider the initiative launched by the council of europe to create a euro-region in the black sea with the aim of promoting democracy at regional level to be a good starting point in this direction and i invite the council and the commission to give their full support to its success.
in writing. there is currently no single european system for the recognition and enforcement of the legal obligation to provide maintenance abroad. community provisions in this field are ineffective instruments for tracing debtors who attempt to evade their obligations to pay maintenance costs. by this regulation, a maintenance judgment given in one member state is to be enforced promptly and correctly in any other member state. this is to ensure simplification of life for citizens, i.e. recovery of child support from parents or other responsible persons when these persons live in a state other than that in which the child is present, implementation of one of the fundamental european rights, that of private and family life and protection of the child, the homogenisation and simplification of european legal rules throughout the eu and the construction of the european area of freedom, security and justice and the facilitation of the functioning of the internal market. i consider that the courts seised must verify the independence and competence of the legal advisers and take account of the situation of the parties during the proceedings. the maintenance creditor should benefit from the provisions of the law of the country of residence, disputes in this area should be resolved less costly and the search for the most favourable jurisdiction avoided.
