we are in the middle of our election period, for many of us the first period of great european politics. it is good to stop and take stock, or evaluate, of what we wanted to achieve and what we have actually achieved. if i look at the activities of the european parliament, the regulations, directives and recommendations it has adopted for the member states and its citizens, i can say that we have worked well, efficiently and for the benefit of our constituents. but in order to get a good result, we also have to look in the mirror of reality and see what we have failed to do, or where we have failed to meet the demands of our voters. the main shortcoming i see is the lack of acceptance of the new ten countries. it is above all a very weak representation in key positions, above all a lack of our citizens working in the european commission and almost zero representation in the agencies, not to mention that our citizens are placed at the lowest functional positions. i try to justify this fact by saying that we lacked the required experience at european level. this is no longer the case today, and i hope that in the second half, there will be a correction. it is not a question of making individuals visible, but above all of identifying the ten as equal partners, not only in terms of duties but also in terms of rights. we have big goals ahead of us to become a global leader and to compete with the big players in the world, like the us and china. but the reality is far from that. the european union cannot identify itself with the objectives it has set itself. we're stumbling around, not knowing where to go with the constitutional treaty, even though we know that passing it would take us further. competitiveness depends on the level of modern technology, but we are still losing young scientists, doctors, engineers every day because they do not find enough support in europe. mr borrell, you are no longer president of the european parliament. allow me to express my gratitude and my respect for your work during such a challenging period as the accession of the ten new member states. you have handled many challenging situations with insight and composure, and you have been willing to listen patiently to others. i wish you much success in your professional and personal life. today is a day of significance for the whole of the european union, not only as the day of the exchange of key posts in the european parliament, but also as the day of the implementation of the treaty of nice, the day of the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. this marked the end of a very important phase of political change in europe. i know from personal experience that the wait for this day has been very long and exhausting. the conditions also required harsh measures that were often unpopular. you have now completed an important period, but your participation in the european parliament will be conditional on an active approach, in which the experience of the previous period of the new decade can also help you. welcome those whose actions and intentions were pure and sincere. i wish you strength, courage and success.
allow me to congratulate you most cordially and sincerely on your election, and to wish you good health in your office and much patience in your decision-making. i want to ask you one thing that has not been mentioned in any of the previous speakers, because they were all from the old 15 countries. i would ask you to recognise that the european union is now 27 and to respect and try to support the officials from the 12 new member states, whose deputies were also elected with the confidence that their voices would be heard here. as regards non-attached members, i would ask you to remove the discrimination which affects them. i wish you well in your new position and i congratulate you.
as a member of parliament and a doctor at the same time, i cannot believe that a palestinian doctor and five bulgarian nurses, whose most sacred duty is to treat and help the sick, would knowingly and intentionally infect children with hiv in the course of their work in libya. i'm more concerned about whether libya and its compromised leader, colonel gaddafi, can be trusted. this country is still run by a man whose country knowingly and deliberately ordered the destruction of innocent victims when its terrorists blew up a passenger plane over the town of lockerbie. the only evidence that libya has, apart from admitting responsibility for this heinous crime, is that it has extensive oil and gas deposits on its territory. the death penalty for health workers is a vile and cynical act on the part of gaddafi and his regime, but it is not an expression of the rule of law and justice. i ask myself another question, is this not part of libya's dirty game to get dizzying money to compensate for the lives of children, or is it not blackmailing the west and blackmailing the european union, of which bulgaria is a member, to release libyan terrorists who are justly convicted and imprisoned for their previous terrorist acts. i therefore call on the european commission and the german presidency of the european council to use all the instruments at their disposal to put political and economic pressure on libya to save the lives of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. political concessions to gaddafi and his authoritarian policies would be a serious and even fatal political mistake. accepting, even collaborating with, politicians with a terrorist past is immoral and can bring into disrepute the principles on which europe is founded truth, the rule of law, human rights and respect for human dignity.
mr. chairman, congratulations on your new appointment. in order to improve the competitiveness of railways vis-à-vis road transport and to ensure their equal participation in the sharing of transport activities, it is necessary to complete the harmonisation of conditions between rail and road transport. just as in the energy sector we are separating transmission networks from media suppliers, so in rail transport it is necessary to complete the reform of those state railways which still bring together transport operators and infrastructure operators under one organisation. the fact that road transport is very successful even where rail is more suitable for environmental reasons is due to the lack of harmonisation, external costs, incomplete interoperability, lack of transformation, but also to the lack of quality of rail transport. the second key element is the liberalisation of the market. however, when opening up the networks to rail passenger transport, it is necessary to give the economies of the new member states sufficient time to prepare for this step.
the reporter. the dignity and mission of women have taken on a special dimension in recent years. this is particularly evident in the transversal european policies defined by the lisbon strategy, such as the demographic challenge, reconciliation of family and professional life, and the fight against violence against women. the recognition of differences on the one hand and the complementarity of men and women on the other can make a significant contribution to democracy and parliamentarism for the citizens of the member states of the european union. freedom is not limited to freedom of competition, as my favourite chancellor pointed out yesterday. in a wide and specific context, which is inspired mainly by the protection of human rights, women have a special value. on the one hand, this is because of her value as a human being who is entitled to inviolable respect for her fundamental dignity. on the other hand, it is precisely because of her femininity, regardless of her cultural context and of her spiritual, mental or physical characteristics, such as her age, health, education, job or her personal status - whether married or single. the report on an integrated approach to equality between women and men in the work of the european parliament's committees is the fruit of the cooperation in the committee on women's rights and gender equality during the first half of the current parliamentary term. this report was unanimously adopted by this committee, for which i thank you very much. we cannot always look forward to such a joint success and a coherent approach within parliamentary committees. the committee on women's rights and gender equality is currently the most important instrument to support the efforts that still need to be made in other committees to make equality between men and women a reality. our committee has developed the first methodological model for evaluation, which is applicable to all parliamentary committees. this model is described in the explanatory memorandum. the data from the questionnaires of the individual committees that responded to our survey were carefully processed by the secretariat of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. if all the committees had answered our questionnaire, this evaluation would be more complex. every committee should pay attention to our recommendations. the discussions in the femm committee resulted in the adoption of a number of amendments which strengthen the content of the report. however, let me mention the three additional proposals contained in paragraphs 8, 21 and 22. in my view, these undermine the powers of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and are not entirely in line with the rules of procedure of the european parliament. i particularly appreciate the plurality of the parliamentary debate that took place during the preparation of the annual report, which clearly highlighted the importance of this issue. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have been deeply involved in this activity and who have helped me to prepare this report.
in 1993, the un general conference in vienna declared for the first time the principle that human rights include women's rights and that they are rights with special priority. later, the beijing platform for action made it its main objective to talk about so-called gender equality and identified 12 problem areas. i will mention some of them: women and poverty, education, women and health, violence against women, armed conflict, women and the media, women and their participation in decision-making, political and social structures. despite the number of institutions involved in the implementation of these documents, such as the un, the council of europe, the osce and the european union, it can be said today that gender equality is still only de jure, but not de facto, resolved. we often look for excuses in the percentage of women. but we don't see that these percentages are represented mainly at the lower or lowest levels of the institution. the higher up the chain of command, the lower the representation of women. i think there's a good principle here, too: if i want to change something, i start by trying to change my environment. perhaps that is why the report drawn up by mrs zaborska is so important. in the european parliament too, we can say that the percentage of women is better today than it was before, but we must see that women occupy lower positions, either at the political level in the european parliament or in the secretariats. i would even go so far as to say that we have achieved gender equality in the secretariats completely, and women are in the majority. does the cultural and traditional principle persist in the european parliament that a woman is a good wife, mother, mistress, secretary, cook or cleaner, but not a good manager? it is sad that the only speech that has so far been heard from the male representative of this parliament was the one that was.
madam president, i would also like to congratulate you on your election. perhaps it's symptomatic that you're presiding over this discussion. i would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur for the clear language she uses in her report on the application of equal opportunities in our parliament. it does not say that there is nothing more to be done in this parliament in the interests of equal opportunities. on the contrary, it is clear that mainstreaming is well formulated, anchored in parliament's resolutions and european community directives, and institutionalised by the working group and the committee. however, the interest in the substance is virtually exhausted by the fact that the committees want to train their secretariats on what mainstreaming actually means. it seems that such training would be necessary for some of our colleagues as well. i would point out that even here in this parliament we are often inclined to downplay the impact of not solving a problem. the ageing of europe without a reassessment of access to equal opportunities for both sexes is an insoluble problem. it is certainly not enough to change and modernise pension systems. the main problems so far can be seen on two levels: first, in the philosophical approach of the political elites, which causes indirect discrimination by applying the so-called civil principle, with consequences that clearly indicate discrimination and differences in opportunities. secondly, on a practical level, there is a complete lack of work-life balance activities, which creates fundamentally different opportunities for women and men due to existing, hard-to-overcome stereotypes. i believe that the european parliament, recognising the seriousness of the challenge for europe posed by demographic change, should work much more closely with national parliaments on equal opportunities. the year of equal opportunities creates the right environment for this, in my view.
madam president, allow me to congratulate you on your election and on having your first debate on women. ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, ms záborski, on her balanced report and i would also like to thank her for her meritorious work as chair of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. i agree with the need for women to be represented in the political decision-making bodies of the european parliament. i welcome the efforts to gradually put the issue of gender equality into practice and on the agenda of all the committees of the european parliament. it is important to encourage committees to give sufficient attention to the issue of an integrated approach to gender equality. mainstreaming is not a strategy that is implemented all at once, but it must become a thread running through the whole policy process in order to integrate a gender perspective into all community policies at all levels. the demand for equality between men and women must be expressed in a practical approach that does not pit women and men against each other. by emphasising the importance of involving men in the process of an integrated approach to gender equality, issues that were previously considered to be exclusively women's issues will be given greater prominence. the political groups of the european parliament can play a very important role in this process by promoting the participation of women in public life, for example by encouraging women to stand for election to both the european parliament and national parliaments. i am convinced that the european parliament, in its structures, must set an example, especially in 2007, the year of equal opportunities for all, of gender equality as part of its normal political practice in favour of a society organised on the basis of the ideas of non-discrimination, tolerance, justice and solidarity. i believe that this challenge will be taken up by the member states and will not go unanswered in the pursuit of gender equality policy.
in writing. on the occasion of the review of the two years of parliamentary work of the women's committee, i would like to thank president borrell, chairman of the high level group, who supported our work with great insight and diplomacy, and sylvia yvonne kaufmann, vice-chairman, who paid close attention to the work of this group, an indispensable tool for cross-cutting synergy. the femm committee's powers, as defined by the rules of procedure of our institution, give elected representatives control over all matters concerning equality in the european parliament, including legislation on equal opportunities policy, the budget, information policy on women, and the implementation and further integration of the equal opportunities dimension in all sectors, including personnel policy, in complementarity with the administration. i would also like to say how much i appreciate the vigilance of all colleagues, particularly lissy gröner, who is at the origin of this dynamic, and who stressed in her report that the femm committee is the main body of the european parliament to be responsible for issues relating to women's rights, equal opportunities and an integrated approach. i hope that this powerful collaboration will continue to inspire our future work.
in dealing with a major issue such as climate change, we need to find more understanding in the european parliament for better communication and a more unified approach in finding appropriate strategic solutions. i think that the envi initiative could certainly have been consulted in advance by the itre committee, particularly in relation to the european commission's energy package. the envi resolution proposal comes with new binding targets, much more ambitious, and we are not at all sure whether and how we will achieve the objectives set in the previous proposals of the european commission. but we all know it's time to act, because the climate change situation is really serious. i will not name the areas of energy where it is really possible to significantly improve the co2 emissions situation. however, the expected economic development will bring new visions in the field of increased energy demand. the construction of new energy capacity must be based on carbon-free technologies. the renewables we so often rightly call for will hardly be enough to meet the growing demand. it is difficult to understand, then, that nuclear energy, which practically emits no co2, continues to be misunderstood and only vaguely defined in the strategies of the european commission and the european union in general, with only reference to the free decisions of the member states.
the european commission has reduced the amount of emission allowances for slovakia for the period 2008 to 2012 by 10,3 million tonnes of co2 per year. this means that the allocation for 183 sources, including the reserve for new sources, may not exceed 30,9 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. this is unacceptable for slovakia. the slovak economy has recorded record gdp growth thanks to the previous dzurinda government. in march 2006, the industrial production index reached 15,3% instead of the expected 7,4%. the shortage of emission allowances would discriminately constrain economic growth. during this period, as a result of the accession treaty, slovakia will face significant changes in the structure of electricity generation when decommissioning the units of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant. it is striking that the commission has not accepted the slovak proposal, in which we demand an increase in the emission quota by at least 4.5 million tonnes of co2. slovakia is emitting less carbon dioxide than required by the kyoto protocol.
this month marks 30 years since the world's newspapers published the text of charter 77, which is closely linked to the resistance against the communist dictatorship in the former czechoslovakia. it was a defiance against the arrogance of power coupled with the cruelty of state security, which did not respect religious freedom, punished all its critics with imprisonment, prevented young people from studying for their opinions or even for the opinions of their parents. charter 77, with which important personalities such as václav havel were associated, has not lost its relevance and relevance even after thirty years. she inspired the belarusian opposition to create the charter 97 initiative, which was signed by tens of thousands of belarusians protesting against lukashenko's regime. north korean, cuban, and burmese dissidents have tried to emulate this experience. let me therefore say on behalf of all those who have known the totalitarian communist regime, on the floor of the european parliament: thank you, signatories of charter 77, for the courage with which you have launched the victory over fear so that we, as part of the european union, can live and work as free people today.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. one of the cardinal issues in human resources is education. discrimination in all areas is counterproductive to the development of society, but it is even more so in the area of education. i would like to highlight two aspects of this subject. the report, which i particularly value for its balance, covers the most common forms of discrimination. but it fails to mention that child poverty and the associated early school leaving create a situation where lifelong learning becomes unrealistic because the foundations are missing, so there is nothing to build on later. while statistics show that in the eu member states, early school leaving is higher for boys, it should be noted that the main reason is poverty, which affects women more than men, and this is especially true for single parents, the vast majority of whom are women, and for families with a low income. the other problem that the report highlights is the situation of women who are cumulatively disadvantaged, who belong to different minorities. it is true that national and ethnic minorities, the roma, people with disabilities, but people with learning disabilities, such as dyslexia, dyspraxia, dyscalculia, are discriminated against in education in most member states. the european union's anti-discrimination guidelines require governments to take countervailing measures, but this is contrary to the constitutional principle of the prohibition of narrowly defined discrimination in several member states. thus, in the case of one member state, the constitutional court has ruled that an article of the antidiscrimination law which would have allowed for the adoption of temporary positive measures to ensure equal opportunities is unconstitutional. i am convinced that without these transitional measures it is impossible to create equal opportunities.
we are often confronted with the view that motherhood and the family are natural, even insurmountable barriers that impede many women's access to higher education, academic degrees and lifelong learning. are they really obstacles? i did. but these are obstacles that result from our way of life and can be overcome. i'm a doctor and i'm a mother. i know that medical school is hard and takes a lifetime. i also know how much time and energy a woman devotes to her family and children. but i also know that women are excellent doctors. i want every young woman who feels her mission is to heal others to be free to choose to study medicine. i want her to be able to make a decision with the confidence that in the future she can not only be a good doctor, but also a good wife and mother. this is also reflected in the report on discrimination against young women and girls in education. she says that the values of family and motherhood must not be in conflict with the values of education. motherhood is the natural calling and desire of every woman. until we can reconcile the role of women mothers with the role of women professionals in our daily reality, the european promise of equal opportunities will remain a hollow phrase. i would like to express my appreciation and my thanks to mrs flasar. we, along with the other colleagues on the femm committee, highly appreciate her work on this report. we have unanimously supported it in committee and i would like to ask the plenary to support this report.
perhaps thanks to the media, gender stereotypes predetermine the roles of men and women in society. it is rare for journalists to interview successful men and ask them the question, 'how do you balance your career with caring for your family?' as often as they do successful women. it is considered normal that the sacrifice is made by the woman, who in most cases puts family first. childcare in some cases acts as a factor in reducing women's interest in continuing their education. many women discontinue their studies because of motherhood and subsequently give up on further education. it is striking that while the ratio of 59% to 41% favours women at the beginning of higher education, only 43% of women attain a degree and only 15% of women attain the rank of professor. in this context, i welcome the report by the rapporteur, mrs flasar, which is a thorough analysis of women's educational attainment in the light of their employment in the labour market, while also drawing attention to the elements of discrimination against young women and girls in the field of education. education is a fundamental right and a key tool for social inclusion. it's a recipe for solving the problem of poverty, especially for women from vulnerable groups. i therefore consider it important to implement and use educational programmes funded by the european union to raise awareness of gender issues and equal access to education at all levels. in conclusion, i would like to call on the member states to make it easier for women to access education and thus to ensure their better integration into society through flexible training programmes, for example by offering distance learning through computer technology.
on january 22, the bbc was cancelled in slovakia because it was in english, which is not allowed by the infamous non-european law on the state language, which was adopted in 1995. under this standard, it is not possible to allocate a frequency to broadcasts in a foreign language. the closure of the bbc has caused great discontent among the citizens of the slovak republic, especially since the current government has highlighted the need to improve language education, in which the bbc radio station was an example. although the ministry of culture is aware of the absurdity of the regulations, it plans to introduce stricter controls and sanctions instead of a positive solution. the free movement of services is one of the union's fundamental principles, but the dissemination of information cannot be made conditional on language either. this case demonstrates that the language law in question does not comply with the principles of cultural and linguistic diversity, or the european union's system of values.
i would also like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs for a very important legislative document which aims to simplify the current legal framework for waste management. it should also be noted that the most frequent subject of litigation before the european court of justice is environmental legislation, and waste management constitutes a substantial part of it. i support the rapporteur in her efforts to avoid large-scale comitology. on the other hand, the framework directive is so important to the union that it is necessary to insist on the co-decision procedure for all the articles it mentions, namely articles 5, 11 and 21. it is desirable to reclassify incineration plants for the recovery of waste from today's disposal. by recycling, we also reduce our dependence on primary raw materials. border controls need to be improved to prevent some member states from becoming landfills for others. we are well aware that the waste management sector is the attraction for many of the highly profitable but illegal trade. however, i have reservations about amendment no 70, which amends article 30 of the directive, which seeks to abolish specific qualitative and, above all, quantitative indicators in the waste management programmes of the member states. if we really want to achieve waste reduction, we cannot do it without quantitative indicators. reducing the quantity does not automatically mean that the most hazardous waste will be eliminated. too much flexibility in programmes, imprecise and vaguely defined targets will not lead to the desired result and member states will certainly abuse this. especially when there is a directive that leaves it to the member states to achieve results. waste management programmes must also include quantitative indicators, otherwise these programmes will be unambitious. i also agree with the rapporteur that the member states should establish programmes within 18 months of the entry into force of the directive, the 3 years set by the commission seem to me to be too long.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank our rapporteur for his work and i welcome the lively and fruitful debate which took place in the committee responsible on the role of women in turkey in social, economic and political life. i would like to make three points in this debate. firstly, there is a persistent misunderstanding between simply discussing the role of women in turkey and concluding that turkey can join the european union or not. this merger does not help us to focus on the role of women in turkey, which is a theme in itself. in this parliament we regularly discuss the role of women in afghanistan, the maghreb or africa, without afghanistan, the maghreb or africa necessarily being called upon to become members of the european union. this also applies to turkey. in this context, i also call on the council of europe's counterpart to show responsibility and to conduct a dialogue with turkey as a member state of the council of europe. i would urge my colleagues in the house to continue to focus on the role of women in turkey. we women are an added value for the common good of society; as peacemakers, we have a special knowledge to share and a special wisdom to pass on, wherever we are, including in turkey. secondly, the debate on the role of women in turkey reminds the member states of the european union of their own responsibilities. how can we teach turkey lessons when we are not even able to do our homework at home? we will only be able to criticize turkey when we are ready to criticize ourselves. so let us not be lecturers. thirdly, we cannot tackle the situation of women by ignoring the role of men. but no one dares to bring up this politically correct fact, because men also have a very important role to play in the equality of men and women. at our meeting in istanbul, prime minister erdogan confirmed his opposition to violence against women. i invited him to speak openly on this matter and to set a good example for turkish men. it is not enough to be intimately convinced that violence is not a solution, it is also necessary to declare it out loud, with the strength of one's political reputation. that is why i renew my invitation to mr erdogan from this podium. take a public stand against violence against women, including in your country. mr. erdogan, be a good example that men can be proud of, so we can all take a step forward together to improve the status of women in your country.
mr president, at the beginning of my speech, i would like to offer my warm congratulations on your election as president of the european parliament, the most democratic institution and one of the most important european institutions. you became the first president of the european parliament after the treaty of nice was completed and implemented. the european union now has 27 member states. i have not mentioned this fact by chance, because political practice says that after the fulfilment of one treaty, the preparation of the next one becomes topical. two years of hesitation and stalling around the constitutional treaty is detrimental to the idea of a united europe. you are taking office at a time when germany, one of the founding countries, holds the presidency of the european union, and so i expect you to decide what to do with the constitutional treaty. the majority of member states have decided to support the constitutional treaty and to move forward with the idea of a united europe, and this will cannot be ignored by a negative decision by two member states. i would welcome it if the european parliament, now that the president has been elected, would also consider new rules or a revision of the current rules of procedure. i respected the gentleman's agreement that had been made in the past on the election of the president of the european parliament between the two major political parties. but democracy should also allow for the possibility of electing a candidate from a smaller political party. i'm sure this chamber has many valuable and capable people in smaller political parties. i hope very much, mr president, that in your role you will also be a strong advocate of greater involvement of the 12 new member states in european policy-making. i am saddened to see the new member states filling the committees of the european parliament today. similar discrimination between the new member states is also found in the number of staff in the european parliament. it's not just the number, it's the functional classification. our people, often with two degrees, a study abroad, three languages of the 15 countries, are appointed to the posts of secretaries, thus assisting their superiors, who may not have such academic and linguistic knowledge. i am speaking, for example, of the so-called internal recruitment of secretaries which took place last year, and which resulted in some 50 staff from the new member states being recruited as secretaries. all these people have college degrees and are currently doing b-level, a-level jobs, but they're taking secretarial salaries. the european union will save money because skilled work is done for little money, but i ask where is the justice and non-discrimination. the issue of non-discrimination also involves respect for gender equality, which is often discussed and debated here. we even have a separate committee, but the implementation is failing. in conclusion, mr president, may i wish you every success in your mandate as president of the european parliament. i respect you and your rich experience and expertise in european politics, and i trust you to be a good and fair administrator of public affairs.
two days before the european commission formally adopted the strategic energy outlook and other energy-related reports in january 2007, the eurobarometer survey on energy issues was published. the survey clearly demonstrates that energy issues, even in relation to the issue of climate change and future energy shortages, are not a priority for the citizens of the european union. energy issues ranked as high as 12th in the ranking of the most serious issues facing europe today. this issue lags so far behind the problems of unemployment, crime, health care, or the economic situation. it is also alarming that european citizens believe that the core of energy problems lies in continents and countries other than the european union. almost a quarter of european citizens admitted that they are doing nothing to reduce their energy consumption. citizens have little idea that energy prices will rise in the long run. if we are on the threshold of a new industrial revolution, linked to solving the energy problems, but also the problems associated with climate change, then we have a pragmatic goal, but with an absolutely political content. if this effort is to succeed, it must be implemented with the widest possible support from the citizens of the european union and the governments of the member states must stop hesitating to tackle the open problems.
i think we all agree that innovation plays, or should play, one of the dominant roles in responding to the threats and opportunities of the global economy. it is well known that the main problem in developing innovation is the lack of implementation in individual member states. the lisbon strategy is intended, in particular, to create the conditions for strengthening the internal competitive environment of each member state. the eu economy will be as competitive as the smallest and most remote firms in its regions are competitive and innovative. implementation of innovation programmes must therefore go directly to the regional level, where they create a sufficient competitive environment for local smes. the centrally managed implementation of innovation development is already doomed to failure. building a regional technical infrastructure for the development of innovation, such as technology incubation centres, high-centres, where all available knowledge potential, every viable innovative idea will find its place for implementation. however, this must necessarily include flexible access to different forms of financing, in particular risk capital, depending on the level of development of the innovative company or project, which must also be available at regional level. only in this way can we sustain, motivate, develop and exploit the knowledge potential in our regions for the sake of long-term sustainable economic development. i would therefore urge the commission to take these aspects of innovation development into account when assessing national strategic reference frameworks.
in writing. the eu wine sector produces the best wine in the world and has huge potential which must be further developed in a sustainable way. the steady development of the market in china, which is beginning to take an active interest in wine production, and the increase in production in other countries such as australia, new zealand, the usa, canada and south africa have led to 'new world' wines gaining a significant market share at the expense of european wines. i agree with the commission's initiative that the deterioration of the balance between supply and demand in the wine sector, the growing role of the european and international wine market, require reform of this sector too. however, i strongly reject some of the solutions in the commission's communication of 22 june 2006. a plan for the indiscriminate culling of vineyards, which poses a threat to the environment in particular, is considered to be an unjustified attack on europe's wine heritage. it is the viticulture sector, which makes the most of natural resources, that has the positive effect of protecting the soil from erosion and, at the same time, as a driving force for rural development, it means that many european regions can achieve the prosperity they have dreamed of. thanks to their wine-making traditions, the regions in slovakia have also invested in the development of wine tourism through the lesser carpathian, kamenín, hontianská and tokaj wine route and rightly expect that the reform of the wine sector sot, by providing adequate funding, in particular through innovation, will ensure the dynamism and competitiveness of the european wine sector.
a lot of important information has already been given in the individual speeches. the failure to provide our committee with the relevant information is a deep, moral and ethical wound to european policy for the protection of human rights and freedoms, inflicted not only by the high representatives of the states concerned but also by the council, which bears collective responsibility for this unprecedented deception and gamble with the trust of citizens and with the political and moral credit of the union. in the context of the facts that have been made public, i am struck by the attitude of javier solana, who has used the policy of the ostrich in this extremely serious case and, with his head buried in the political sand of his own interests and ambitions, has taken the position of being blind, deaf and silent. mr. solano, as our top foreign policy official, has clearly failed. on 2 may 2006, he told us in his speech before the committee that he knew nothing and had no information to help clarify the circumstances of this unprecedented case. the question is, who failed? mr. solana himself, his administration, or a system that helps cover up human rights abuses. whatever the answer, mr. solana should make an example of personal responsibility in this case.
i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the contribution to the spring european council meeting on 8 and 9 march. i supported the amended text of the resolution, as i regard the safeguarding of the competitiveness of the internal market and the implementation of a strategic innovation policy with a focus on energy efficiency as a clear and timely answer to the question of how to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. in the interests of greater transparency and better understanding of the strategy, i support the process of better regulation with a focus on consumer protection. the resolution calls on national parliaments to engage in national reform programmes, as the success of the ambitious lisbon strategy depends mainly on the initiative of individual member states. in this context, i will give the example of slovakia, where, thanks to the structural reforms of the government of mikuláš dzurinda, we can now speak of real results, namely almost 10% economic growth and the creation of hundreds of new jobs. the minerva strategy, i.e. the mobilisation of innovation in the national economy and the development of scientific and educational activities, is the concretisation of the lisbon strategy with the aim of making slovakia one of the most advanced, modern and prosperous societies in the world, which can also be a source of ideas and inspiration for other member states of the european union.
i voted in favour of a non-legally binding but substantive, coherent and balanced report by katarina batzelli, which includes a large number of important suggestions from members who are very familiar with the local wine-growing traditions and customs of their regions. following the uproar caused by the commission's communication on a sustainable european wine sector, in particular the decision to grub up 400 000 ha of vineyards, it was necessary for the european parliament to propose in this report how it envisaged future reform of the wine sector. i consider it most important to maintain the community budget and not to transfer appropriations from the first to the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, which is rural development, as this could lead to a diversion of resources to the detriment of the wine sector. at the same time, it is essential to promote the position of wine and the wine sector by establishing a genuine promotion, communication and marketing policy based on the common market organisation. i am convinced that only by taking account of the european parliament's proposals can the commission come up with an effective legislative proposal to ensure that the european wine sector, which is one of the sources of employment and prosperity in many european regions, including slovakia, maintains its world-leading position in the production of quality wines.
drafted by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. the femm committee believes that the issue of public services is crucial to achieving the lisbon objectives, but that demographic challenges cannot be adequately addressed without a strategy for the development of such services. i would like to raise two issues from the problem: the issue of accessibility and the issue of quality. since respect for human rights is a fundamental requirement for social services, no country is exempt from the obligation to subject these services and providers to appropriate licensing and supervision. people who use social services are most often in a vulnerable situation. access to services is also a basic need. since the demographic crisis affecting europe cannot be resolved without an adequate network of social services, it is necessary to emphasise that the financial burden of these services cannot be passed on to citizens alone, nor to municipalities, which are bearing increasing burdens. in the new member states, we find that the indebtedness of local authorities has reached alarming levels, as there is no adequate cover for the financing of services and powers taken over from the state. the cost cannot be borne by the entrepreneurial sphere either, but it is noteworthy that the burden can be shared if the entrepreneurial sphere receives appropriate support and incentives, such as tax benefits. it is true that this is a matter for the member states, under the principle of subsidiarity, but the exchange of good practice and the open method of coordination can undoubtedly be very useful in this area.
for the ppe-de group. i am pleased that we are discussing the implementation plan for equality between women and men 2006 2010 in plenary today. this report is the result of the joint work of all femm committee members, despite their different political views. i particularly appreciate the work of the rapporteur, mrs amalie sartori. this year is symbolic in many ways. on the occasion of the celebration of the european community's birthday, we also celebrate the european year of equal opportunities for all and at the same time adopt an equality implementation plan. time is symbolic. just a few days ago, we celebrated international women's day. i would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to a few points. the plan for implementing equality will lose its meaning if we do not talk about complementarity between women and men and about the alignment of their activities. no european or national plan to implement equality will succeed unless the poorest and most vulnerable women become our partners. efforts to improve the financial and social situation of women will not succeed unless we formally recognise the contribution of women in the informal economy, unless we recognise the activities of women that animate the networks of solidarity between generations. i would also like to emphasise the role of ngos. their initiatives are of great importance at both national and european level. i ask the european commission to look for specific uses of the individual budget chapters for all women's organisations. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the equal opportunities agenda is not just for women, but also for men.
women, through their irreplaceable role in society, have a significant impact on the ever-changing face of the world. they're mothers, wives, family business owners, working professionals, running big companies. they are successful politicians, artists, and athletes. they move the world forward, make it better and more valuable. despite women having commendable managerial skills and achieving significant success in the entrepreneurial field, for example in the central european region, men are twice as likely as women to become entrepreneurs. this situation is largely due to the fact that women in leadership positions are forced to face many additional obstacles related mainly to their role in the family. to meet the lisbon objectives, europe needs to increase women's employment by creating good working conditions, but at the same time, to survive in a globalised world, it needs to promote demographic renewal through family policies. a stable family, in which women play a unique role as the giver of life, is a prerequisite for europe's stability and prosperity. recently released statistics show that the birth rate has been falling to an unprecedented level in recent years. this requires analysing the situation and looking for solutions and ways out of the current negative demographic situation. i have mentioned the arguments which confirm the importance of this debate to the own-initiative report by mrs sartori, whom i would like to congratulate and thank for her work. however, the report also contains some problematic and sensitive points concerning the introduction of quotas or the reproductive health perspective. if we do not find the courage and the strength to protect human life, to promote orderly family life and to protect families with children, we will find ourselves in an untenable situation in a few years. i don't think women need quotas to push them into politics, science or business. they need us to create a space for them in which they have the right conditions to enter the labour market and also to remain in it. all persistent forms of discrimination, such as wage differentials and unequal introduction of pension schemes, need to be abolished. i am convinced that only such a focused plan for the implementation of gender equality will ensure prosperity....
i regret to say that i find the commission's communication on health services unsatisfactory. in addition to the fact that the commission does not give us any satisfactory and concrete proposals on how it wants to coordinate the provision of health services, since the provision is in the sphere of the national states, the communication strongly defends the position that health services should be governed by the principles of the free movement of goods. in this context, i want to emphasize that patients are not the same as goods, and healthcare professionals are not the same as other service providers. the european parliament has already advocated this principle when health services were excluded from the services directive. although crossborder foreign care accounts for only around 1%, the commission's communication focuses on patient mobility, reimbursement of procedures and the like. however, it should be noted that the patient is not a professional and does not seek health care to save money but because it cannot be provided at home. the sole legal basis, article 95, which governs the free movement of goods, is therefore absolutely unacceptable as the legal basis for a future directive or regulation. the commission should focus on other problems that exist in the european union, for example, what causes the death rate from colon cancer to be 40% higher in slovakia than in sweden, focus on how the european union can contribute to improving the quality of health services, for example, how to use the structural funds for health purposes more efficiently. i want patients to be able to connect with healthcare professionals and push for change as effectively as farmers can, for example, so that not only farmers and livestock, but people - patients - will finally benefit. at the same time, the commission draws attention to the recipient country. in this context, i would also like to draw attention to the country of origin. in eastern europe, so-called white holes are starting to form as a shortage of health workers.
the issue of placing children in pre-school care is also closely linked to the issue we discussed here in parliament last night, namely gender equality, equal opportunities. a woman wants to fulfill her desire to be a mother in addition to her desire to be equal in the workplace. inadequate state care for preschool children is one of the reasons for the lower participation of women in decision-making processes. the european union's barcelona summit in 2002 set a target that by 2010 the union's member states should provide care for at least 90% of children aged 3 to 6 and 33% of children under 3. it is known that this is the period of child development that is most rapid, and it is therefore necessary to take advantage of this time to prepare them not only for school but also for life. the implementation of the target will help the integration of children from disadvantaged groups. the state should be interested in ensuring that children from all sections of the population have the same chance of basic preparation for life, so that this chance is independent of their parents' wallet. with the declining birth rate in europe and the alarming demographic statistics, we need to think about why young families are not motivated to have children. there is some agreement that the most effective combination is a short maternity leave immediately after the birth of the child, reduced working hours and quality childcare facilities. this creates the conditions for the healthy development of the young generation and for the fulfilment of the professional ambitions of the parents.
i warmly welcome the statement by the commission and the council to remind the member states of the commitments they made in barcelona in 2002, as there is not much time left to fulfil them. as we heard, less than a quarter of the member states have reached the targets set. the situation in the member states seems to vary and in the new member states the situation is often worsening rather than improving. it would be a real shame to waste more time and declare in 2010 that the objectives were set illusory and unattainable, because there is no excuse for lack of preparation and in this case time is of the essence. there is no doubt that providing childcare is one of the basic prerequisites for a better work-life balance. i am convinced that it is not possible to increase the employment of women and reduce youth unemployment, which is indeed relatively high, without creating the conditions for the care of children and dependent family members. the requirement that these services adapt to the flexibility of work and that they adapt better to changing requirements and conditions than in their present form is also justified. it might be worth considering not including this area under flexicurity, because without flexibility and adequate social and legal certainty of these services, flexicurity itself is not achievable. as the network of these facilities expands, the question arises as to who should bear the cost not only of setting them up but also of operating them. the responsibility of the member states is not in doubt in this respect.
my question to the commissioner is: what instruments and concrete projects for the implementation of consumer protection policy will the commission support? i mean the european diary highlight: a sensible choice that appeals to students across europe and also listens to what the new generation of the european union thinks about consumer rights. the fundamental aim is to ensure that all citizens of the european union have the same rights within europe, wherever they choose to live, eat or shop. the project was financed by the european union. will the european commission continue to support this project?
the ageing of the population, i.e. increasing the proportion of older people and addressing social deprivation, are the major challenges facing the european union in the years ahead. i welcome the owninitiative report by mr hasse ferreira, with the aim of defining clear rules for social services in the european union, given that, due to their specific nature, they have been exempted from the scope of the recently adopted directive on services in the internal market. i fully support the application of the principle of subsidiarity. given the 27 different models of concepts for the provision and financing of social services, we must leave it to the member states to define the role of social services in accordance with their own customs and practices and to organise them as closely as possible to the citizen. our citizens rightly expect us to send a clear message that the union will give all europeans, especially the most vulnerable and weak, the opportunity to live a life of adequate comfort and social security. i believe that the european parliament, through this report, will also contribute to the creation of a sustainable european social model.
in writing. making the european charter of fundamental rights legally binding is politically dishonest and practically irresponsible. the charter has always been conceived as a symbolic document of a political compromise influenced by powerful representatives of individual interests which do not promote the common good. the charter creates eighteen new "fundamental rights" without justification but which are binding on national constitutions, without any government or national elected official being able to oppose them. this charter is useless and without purpose as long as we have not formally decided on the legal instrument which applies to the ecj in luxembourg or the echr in strasbourg. in the face of doubts about double standards, i refuse to support the charter, and i vote in favour of the convention. the only institution with the right to know about the protection of human rights on the continent is the council of europe. the only legal instrument on human rights in europe is the european convention on human rights. our european super-agency for human rights is the european court of human rights.
madam president, commissioner, honourable members, despite my belief that not all stones were left unturned in our joint efforts to bring the serbian side to support the final deal, i welcome the lagendijk report because it emphasises the need to obtain the consent of both parties involved. i know that the people of kosovo cannot live in limbo for much longer. they pay a very heavy price each day that negotiations are prolonged. however, we need to keep in mind the lessons of history: what happens when third parties decide the final outcome of a conflict between two countries without the clear consent of the primary parties involved. this is exactly the direction of mr ahtisaari’s report, from which serbian support is sorely missing. at present, it seems that all decisions have been made and that kosovo will soon have its own status. but if we truly desire lasting peace and prosperity in the western balkans, we need to continue to encourage belgrade to sign on the dotted line. we have the eu resources and the global institutions to achieve such a goal. i continue to hope for the best and in doing so i will vote for the lagendijk report, while acknowledging the fact that when the final status of kosovo is announced, the work of all interested parties must not end. the sooner we bring serbia to accept the deal, the better it will be for the balkans and for the whole of europe.
like my colleagues, i would like to commend the work of the rapporteur, but also of course our shadow rapporteur, mr tabajdi. i think we have been sufficiently involved in this matter in our committee on foreign affairs and have met with representatives of both pristina and belgrade. the un security council will decide on the status of kosovo, but it will decide, above all, on the future of the people who are currently living in kosovo. their decision will have the same impact on serbs as it will on kosovo albanians. it will have the same impact on christians as it will on muslims. it's going to affect how the quality of life changes. i, as a member of the european parliament, am very sorry that we have brought serbia to the stage where it has to turn to russia and expect russia to be the hot-rope that defends serbia's interests in the united nations security council. i must say that i expect that tomorrow, when we vote on the report, no proposals will be adopted which in any substantial way diminish the legitimacy of one of the parties and that this honourable parliament will support only those proposals which treat both parties equally fairly.
in the history of almost every nation, we find famine years as a result of random events of natural or social origin. the famine in ukraine in 1932-1933 is, however, exceptional. millions of ukrainian peasants died as a result of the deliberate application of the terror of hunger. this barbaric crime of the totalitarian regime in the former soviet union against millions of innocent ukrainian people is one of the most cruel crimes of the 20th century in europe. i appreciate the united stance of all representatives of ukraine to bring to the surface before the world a long-hidden past in an effort to restore an act of historical justice. sentencing the totality of the untouchable stalin would have meant at least life in the gulag or instant death, as in the case of my father, who survived nine years of the gulag hell. ladies and gentlemen, the devastating events that we are witnessing these days at the exhibition on hunger, which was opened by viktor yanukovych in the european parliament, must make us strongly condemn the brutal crimes of stalinism in the former soviet union. by recognising the famine as genocide, the european parliament also expresses its solidarity with the ukrainian people through written declaration no 4/2007, which i believe will be signed by the majority of members by 15 april.
the european commission is suing slovakia because some owners of slovak-flagged seagoing vessels use the services of bulgarian and turkish classification societies. the commission has not yet included them in the list of recognised classification societies. the vessels are 20 and fly the slovak flag. they are owned by foreign companies registered in different countries. however, the penalty of skk 480 million will ultimately be borne by slovakia. the contracts with these companies were concluded before accession to the european union and are of a long-term nature. however, since november last year, a european directive has been in force, which obliges member states to recognise only companies accepted by the european union. slovakia has requested the european union to recognise the bulgarian classification register. i trust that slovakia will try to rectify the situation as soon as possible. i would therefore ask the commission not to be hasty in its action.
there are no own resources or non-own resources of the european union. there is only european taxpayers' money and there are more or less complicated mechanisms of contributions to the european union budget that are of no interest to european union citizens. but what citizens are really interested in is the way these funds are used. it is not only them who have doubts about its effectiveness, but also those of us who sit in the parliamentary seats. if we do not address the issue of the efficient and credible use of the european union budget in the first place, no form of resource coverage of expenditure will be sufficiently transparent in the eyes of european taxpayers. the classical balance sheet 'must give' would then be changed to the equation 'must give' 'does not give', as we are currently seeing. the debate on the future of own resources is certainly a good one, but the problem with both feet is the reform of the european union's expenditure.
for the pse group. the founders of the idea of a united europe did not know what would happen in 50 years, but they knew one thing: if europe is to be built, it must be built together. we have translated these words of robert schuman in an excellent way into the slogan and logo of the european union, which reads: 'community'. in the 2008 budget, we put a strong political focus on the tools we want to use to better inform european citizens. one of our objectives is to address the shortcomings in the image of the european union, particularly in view of the 2009 elections. many of you, dear colleagues, watched on saturday evening, along with millions of television viewers, the great concert from brussels organized to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome. but the overall impression was not so much celebratory as rather embarrassing. the whole event could have been much more symbolic if artists from all member states had been invited to the event. to solve problems successfully, we need to have a comprehensive view of things. it is not enough for us, as the european parliament, to make progress in communication and information policy alone. we need to prepare effective communication measures in cooperation with the commission and the european houses in the individual member states and then regularly evaluate the effectiveness of the process. our efforts to take a comprehensive view and to strengthen cooperation between the institutions will lead to greater transparency and better use of resources. ladies and gentlemen, parliament recently decided to support the adoption of a meaningful statute for parliamentary assistants. i would therefore ask you to accept the amendment calling on the council to take a final decision on the matter. we all know that this statute will ultimately contribute to improving the quality of our work.
i appreciate the initiative and the enormous work of the rapporteur. the report openly points to the discriminatory effects of the common agricultural policy on the farming of the new member states. however, in the interest of transparency, the dictionary is worded in an idyllic manner. the argument that the old and new member states should be happy because the new member states are getting more money and the old ones have gained a large share of their food market is not valid. it is not only against the letter but also against the spirit of the common agricultural policy and the principles of the european union that one part of the european union should systematically decline and another develop. in the accession process, agriculture in the eu-15 was already developing, while in the new member states agricultural production fell by a full third. and it is not true that this was because the farmers of the new member states were unable to adapt to the market. it was for political reasons. the worst part is that this decimated level of agriculture in the new member states has in fact been taken into account forever as a so-called historical reference point for the discriminatory adjustment of the support of the new member states. such contradictory effects on the common agricultural policy in the old and new member states continue after accession to the european union. this is evident from the impact of the recently adopted commodity reforms, but also from the dramatic increase in food imports into the new member states. slovakia alone imported 60% more food last year than the year before. even in the 2020 scenario, the new member states are expected to continue to be the raw material base for animal feed and biomass for energy. the value added is to be generated in the european 15 countries under this scenario. the message is therefore clear. commissioner, i would like you to see this as a positive step, not as you have demonstrated in your speech. it is necessary to reform our internal competition between the old and new states within the union into a truly common, unified approach of all the states of the european union and to the growth of the global competitiveness of the european union's agriculture. above all, we must focus on lower costs, quality growth and effective marketing.
i supported joost lagendijk's report on the future of kosovo and the role of the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that the european parliament's approach must be uniform and clear, because this is our future border of the union and it will be our future territory. it is clear to everyone that the current situation is unsustainable and requires further sensitive and patient negotiations with a great deal of european involvement. i see the ahtisaari document as the starting point for negotiations and for seeking a compromise. europe must choose a position that is clearly towards an agreement. i am convinced that the final solution cannot be dictated under the threat of radicalisation in kosovo or serbia, but must be the result of a solution which takes into account the interests of both the people of the republic of serbia and the kosovo albanians. both nations must not live in hatred, because hatred breeds violence and is an obstacle to stability and security in the region. i believe that the european parliament's report will be a strong signal of a european perspective for the western balkans, leading to an acceptable compromise based on respect for international law and european democratic values. we, the members from the new member states, know first and foremost how much the accession of our countries to the european union has been a driving force behind many political and economic reforms. there is no going back before march 1999, which is why i believe in a future agreement to ensure peace and stability in the western balkans.
i supported the adoption of the document on kosovo, in particular for the following reasons. the proposed controlled sovereignty, which, after the final decision of the security council, must be ensured by a permanent international presence, is a particularly important solution. the current creation of a society of equal citizens is the only right way forward. i fully support that ethnic minorities, as communities, are equal and have clearly defined rights to preserve and develop their identity and the right to their own public administration. i can also only support the guarantee of maximum rights and security, that is to say, a large degree of autonomy for the serbian community. the union will have a central role in this process and it is therefore necessary to prepare a clear plan of action strategy. on the other hand, our task is to highlight the perspective of the balkans, and serbia and kosovo, respectively, in the european union. but this requires stability and peace in the region. we must work to bring the balkan countries into the european union. without it, our community will not be complete.
fifty years ago, count john esterházy, the leader of the hungarian community in slovakia between the two world wars and during the second world war, was a member of parliament. in the parliament of the so-called slovak state, he was the only one who did not vote for the law on the deportation of jews in 1942, and saved many czech, slovak and jewish people. esterházy was taken by the soviets in 1945 and sentenced to 10 years in a labor camp. in 1947, in his absence, the slovak people's court sentenced him to death. in 1949, esterházy, who had severe pneumonia, was transported to czechoslovakia, where he was sentenced to life imprisonment and then 25 years. he died in prison in moravia in 1957. john the baptist was innocent. the russians have already rehabilitated him, but the slovak authorities have not been able to do so. he died a martyr's death only because he fought for european christian values, for human and minority rights, and for sincere tolerance between peoples. let us pay our deepest respects to the memory of john esterházy.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to address you today as the rapporteur on the proposal for a regulation on advanced therapy medicinal products. furthermore, as a medical doctor, i should like to address the progress in medicine of highly specific medicinal products emerging onto the european market to treat patients with the diseases enumerated by the commissioner. i should like to seize this opportunity to thank the commission for its proposal. the time has come to treat patients with products which are safe, efficient and based on non-controversial grounds. since the beginning of 2006, the european parliament has been working hard on this proposal with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on legal affairs. the final report was adopted by a large majority. there is a broad consensus within parliament that the report by the committee on the environment, as presented for the vote in this house, is excellent. all stakeholders, representatives of both the bioindustry and of patient groups welcomed it after its adoption last january. last week three members of parliament, on behalf of their political groups – socialists, liberals and gue – tabled a number of amendments presented as a so-called compromise with the council and the commission. this individual action was undertaken without the knowledge of the rapporteur. i would like to underline that no agreement was reached with the other two institutions at the end of the informal trialogue that took place last month. ninety per cent of these amendments are a copy-and-paste of the committee report with cosmetic changes. the most relevant are the 10%. these amendments concerning the more sensitive political issues are the result of an individual initiative of three of our colleagues. as they mentioned in their letter last week, the interinstitutional agreement has not been finalised. furthermore, many of the amendments presented in the package do not have the support of the committee responsible, the other two committees nor of the rapporteur. therefore, i should like to urge all my colleagues to support the responsible report by the committee on the environment in the vote on wednesday. in order to speed up the legislative procedure, the informal trialogue with the council and the commission took place last month. the three meetings showed discrepancies. from a substantial point of view, several politically sensitive questions have not been solved. from the point of view of procedure, the question was raised of the two amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs which were directly incorporated into the report under the enhanced cooperation procedure. as the main rapporteur, i have tried to underline that the remit of that committee should be respected. in spite of the clear provisions in the rules of procedure on enhanced cooperation between parliamentary committees, colleagues from the two other institutions and some shadow rapporteurs refused to consider these amendments in the light of the first reading agreement. apparently, enhanced cooperation is respected only when it suits certain colleagues. it is welcomed in files such as reach, but as far as advanced therapies are concerned. some go even further and misuse the voice of patients’ groups, declaring that the enhanced cooperation procedure is undemocratic. i would like to raise one aspect of the proposal which still worries me: the principle of subsidiarity. in its fully harmonising proposal, the commission introduces an op-out for member states to apply their restrictive national legislation concerning certain contentious products. in practice, this would mean that certain products would not have access to the market of all member states. following the opinion of our legal service, this provision presents serious problems of incompatibility with the legal bases and could therefore be annulled by the european court of justice. if this is the case, this regulation would become a fully-harmonising measure for all products including those prohibited in some member states. here, the two amendments from the committee on legal affairs bring legal certainty by excluding from the scope products containing or derived from embryonic stem cells. as rapporteur, i have to respect the diversity of 27 sets of legislation relating to embryonic stem cell research, from the complete freedom of research to the prohibition of killing embryos for research purposes. if we do not support the amendments from the committee on legal affairs, this regulation would de facto promote the development of products derived from embryonic stem cells, although this might be considered as ethically unacceptable by citizens and member states. as an elected representative of this house, i have the responsibility to listen to all opinions, to marry positions and to propose to our citizens a text which can be considered as modern, progressive and respecting universal principles and values such as human dignity. i welcome the tone of the recent berlin declaration regarding european values, as well as the programme of the president of the european parliament, who stated that the question of human dignity is at the core of his and of our approach when voting on european legislation.
in writing. we live in a world of incredible technological advancement. despite advances in medicine, modern diseases are frightening. the innovative pathway and great hope for patients is the use of advanced therapeutic treatments, including gene and cell therapies and tissue engineering. i am convinced of the enormous potential of advanced therapeutic therapies to revolutionize the treatment of serious diseases such as cancer, parkinson's disease, skin burns and others, and therefore welcome the regulation from the european commission's workshop which aims to harmonise practices in this area in the eu and guarantee the safe treatment of these serious diseases for seriously ill people. removing barriers to the european market will facilitate patients' access to existing treatments through a single european marketing authorisation for these products. however, in order to respect the fundamental principles of the internal market and in the interests of its proper functioning, as well as to ensure legal certainty, this regulation should apply only to products prepared from cells which can actually be placed on the market in the near future and which do not give rise to serious contradictions. it is therefore absolutely unacceptable to ignore the opinion of the legal affairs committee, which is the main committee in the ep on ethics in new technologies. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr mikolášik, and to commend him for his fundamental attitude to ethical issues, to the protection of the integrity of the person on the basis of the oviedo convention and the charter of fundamental rights.
i thank the rapporteur for his comprehensive report on the subject. the european parliament's initiative in this area only confirms how important the issues of the proper functioning of the european union's systems are to it, and cohesion (or cohesion) policy is one of them. i believe that the report is not intended to speak of any specific extension, but is systemically oriented. the area to which the report refers needs to be seen in at least two ways, namely how good and effective the european union's cohesion policy is and what impact enlargement may have on it, or how we need to define it properly in the light of enlargement. in the absence of an effective evaluation of the effectiveness of the provision of eu funding for regional development, we can only speak roughly of the effect that enlargement can have on cohesion. but even if we have a good methodology for regional policy-making, implementation and evaluation, we cannot do without the professional approach of the member states, which are the guarantors of fairness, transparency, top-level administrative capacity and the prevention of misuse of funds. we will look forward to evaluating regional policy in the mid-term review in 2008-09. member states must also contribute to appropriate solutions to finance a quality european cohesion policy. it cannot be a fight for every euro between regions suffering from a low level of economic development. eu policy must be so objective that it is not implemented in the form of a who-is-who. but that requires sufficient resources. in its 2005 resolution, the european parliament clearly stressed that the budget for regional development must be significantly higher for the 2007-2013 budgetary period. the solution lies in reviewing the way the european budget is set up, otherwise a clear need for more direct financial involvement of the individual member states receiving and expected to receive aid. but where is the european solidarity that is so famous? finally, one more note: cohesion policy cannot be a victim of enlargement, nor can enlargement be a hostage to cohesion policy. however, only a system that takes account of all the links between the components of its cohesion, including enlargement and cohesion, can function perfectly.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a very detailed report covering all the areas related to the fight against this insidious disease. unfortunately, eurohiv does not have national data from spain and italy, despite both countries being considered by the centre as the areas with the highest epidemic incidence and despite the fact that in some countries of the european union the estimated number of people infected with the virus is almost three times higher than the officially reported number. in slovakia, for example, it is estimated that there are actually up to ten times more infected patients than official statistics indicate. obviously, accurate statistics are difficult to obtain because some patients refuse treatment and are lost to doctors. legislation does not address the problem, and despite the danger of infection, no one can force a person to seek treatment. it is often difficult to identify the source of the infection. in the case of syphilis, the infected person may be detected after a short time. in the case of hiv, that's a very long time. i support commissioner kyprianou's emphasis on the research and treatment delivery challenges of the seventh framework programme.
european cohesion policy is a driving force for sustainable and balanced development, particularly in less developed regions. it contributes significantly to raising the standard of living of the population. the european parliament, together with the ministers of the member states, has the final say in the adoption of the budget of the european union. a record €347 billion was earmarked for cohesion policy during this seven-year programming period. 84 regions in 17 member states whose gdp is well below 75% of the community average and 16 regions whose gdp, thanks to statistical averaging after enlargement, is only slightly above 75% of the community average, are watching the irish boom with great hope. ireland is a major success story of cohesion policy. when, by successfully drawing on the structural funds, it was able to turn its position as europe's poorest region into an economic leader and to share the cake of european solidarity with those who need it most. i expressed my support for the report by mr markus pieper because the european parliament has a strong interest in seeing the success of cohesion policy towards eastern europe. for cohesion policy to be effective, we must deal with the consequences of future enlargements, especially in the medium term, for turkey and croatia, which already have official accession status and with which the european union has already started accession negotiations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency'), which will be responsible for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. these enlargements alone would require an increase of eur 150 billion in the cohesion policy budget. if europe is to become the most competitive economy...
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her excellent work and her attitude. i can agree with all the points in her report on the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources. the fact that the commission has been working on this document for five years indicates the seriousness of the problem. the commission document does not contain specific timetables or describe the modalities of the procedure. we have to realize that we have a global water crisis, especially drinking water, global warming, endangered biodiversity, where europe's ecological footprint has doubled its biological capacity, and people die every year from diseases caused by environmental pollution. it requires a more proactive and radical approach. i agree with the proposal for a total reform of the subsidy systems. it is necessary to reduce or stop subsidising activities that have a negative impact on the environment, especially in agriculture. if the commission points out that it does not have enough indicators to include specific time targets, the rapporteur will list several in her report, e.g. gross domestic product, domestic material consumption, etc. if we are to achieve a reduction in our dependence on natural resources, i agree that by 2012 12% of the energy in the european union must come from renewable sources and that by 2008 concrete policies and actions must be developed for the 20 most important materials with the greatest impact.
rapporteur. – mr president, as rapporteur i would like to take this opportunity to make a clarification in introducing this report. i wish to condemn and strongly oppose the behaviour of some of my shadow rapporteur colleagues who, by bypassing the rapporteur and presenting block one as a so-called compromise with the council, are undermining the role of parliament. there are eight political groups in this house, but only three groups – the pse, alde and gue/ngl – have agreed on these over 70 amendments. we have not been informed by the council that coreper has accepted this package. i therefore urge you to vote to reject block one and support block two, which is the result of the work done by the parliamentary committees. however, at the same time i should like to state clearly that i will listen to the voice of this house, and that as the main rapporteur i will give my definitive support to this proposal.
the rapporteur. mr president, according to my voting list, amendments nos 24, 35, 44, 45, 61, 62 in two parts and 66 should also have been voted on, which was not done. i therefore ask you to put them to the vote, please.
we have just voted on a report in which i advocated the adoption of a text and amendments which would preclude, not only for the present but also for the future, the imposition on all the member states of the european union of the use of human embryos for research and potential treatment, the creation of human-animal beings for the purpose of the trade in tissues and the possibility of interfering with the genetic endowment of man. the will of the majority of parliament shows that a text has been adopted for the time being, which is ethically neutral, but only until products based on embryonic stem cell research appear on the market. as a man, a father and a doctor, i will always stand up for the right of countries not to use the above practices. i strongly reject any future possibility of trading in human tissue, buying and selling embryos, acting eugenically and eugenically altering the human genome. the european commission assured us in parliament on 23 april that there is no need to worry about the commercialisation of the human body, as this is covered by european legislation. i can assure you that i and the european parliament will be watching closely and monitoring compliance with this principle.
in writing. the so-called 'compromise package' of communists, socialists and liberals rejects important demands for common ethical standards. the responsibility of the member states for national health care has also been weakened. the compromise reached is not at all appropriate. small and medium-sized enterprises that cooperate with hospitals at national level are exempted from the requirement of european authorisation. others are forced to go to the agency in london. the compromise was dictated by big industry and the hospital lobby against the interests of the medium-sized enterprises. the member states are also losing their autonomy in the field of public health, because the approval of medicines is now decided by an agency in england. this is contrary to the notion of subsidiarity and national responsibility in such fundamental areas as public health and consumer protection. the opportunity to establish basic ethical principles for the whole of europe was missed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the compromise reached rejects these principles of respect for human life. but there are essential aspects which do not tolerate unfair political compromises. that includes the manipulation of human life. that is why i voted against the report.
for the ppe-de group. a report by my colleague herranz garcía calls for a change in the way we think about people with disabilities. we must ask ourselves together with them what solidarity they really need, and even more, we should accept everything these people offer as a testimony to the inalienable value of their lives. but i wonder whether the political institutions at all levels are capable of adopting this approach. as a doctor and a woman in solidarity with women with disabilities, i do not see their condition as a punishment, but as a space where human society can draw the strongest inspiration and the most beautiful resources for a world built on solidarity, hope and love. disabled people are a particularly powerful motivator for us. they are an irreplaceable asset to mankind, both morally and spiritually. they show us and teach us that the human person has value because of who he is, because he exists, and not because of what he owns or what he can do. these are aspects which our european society, which is often dominated by a mismanaged economic neoliberalism, does not understand. the disabled person is a living challenge to humanity. this report also challenges us to show respect for all those who care for disabled people, formally or informally. formal recognition of the involvement of these carers should be a challenge for all institutions. i would therefore like to ask the european commission to commission a study on the recognition of informal work in the field of care for disabled people.
i voted in favour of the report by esther herranz garcía because it has an important message for disabled people, with an emphasis on women who face various difficulties in their daily lives and are unable to fully exercise their rights. i feel that there is still room for improvement in the provision of assistance to the disabled, and i therefore welcome the european parliament's efforts to improve social security for people who cannot take care of themselves but are dependent on assistance. we must not forget the essential role of families and associations of people with disabilities, who can give us a detailed picture of the difficulties, of the barriers that exist, including architectural barriers, and at the same time point to solutions that ensure an improvement in the quality of life of these people in order to promote their full integration into society. i believe that it is worth remembering the people who were deprived of something, but were also given the ability to see and perceive the world differently. they see the world through different eyes and can sense things that the rest of us no longer notice and whose beauty often eludes us. what's so magical about them? with giant arms, they can give their immense devotion and gratitude.
in writing. all persons are equal in dignity, which must be respected and promoted. this approach must guide all our actions at all times. the procedure under rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure specifies that 'when a statement followed by a debate is placed on the agenda, parliament shall decide whether or not to close the debate by a resolution'. what is the point of the exercise if, even before the debate, all the motions for resolutions must already have been tabled and the deadline for tabling amendments has already passed? so, this is a deaf dialogue. this resolution does not echo the interinstitutional debate, in which, moreover, only insiders were able to take part. the procedure is all the more objectionable since the parliament's departments already consulted refute the allegations which have been adopted. poland itself, on the prime minister's official website, had already responded on 5 march to the accusations that parliament is raising again. although the title purports to speak about homophobia in europe, we have unjustly incriminated a sovereign state and its democratically elected government. this resolution will certainly be used beyond our desire to stand in solidarity with every human being against all forms of discrimination.
i thank the rapporteur for a comprehensive report covering housing issues, both in the new and the old member states. i believe that the problem of adequate housing for young people is particularly acute in the new member states and that the cohesive policy adopted to renovate social housing in order to save energy and protect the environment is an important but insufficient contribution of the european union to tackling this situation. we cannot create enclaves for the purpose of social housing, which lack many aspects of cultural housing and are a potential source of problems for cities and regions. i think that the european union policy, on the basis of analyses that should be carried out by individual cities and municipalities, regions, but also by the states themselves, should contribute and prepare a list of so-called best practices used in the member states of the european union to create areas or spaces for dealing with the problem of social housing on the basis of the experience that exists in many countries and cities of the old part of the european union. i hope that the structural funds and the possibility of using european union funds will help to ensure that these 'best practices', which are essential to know in the european union, can be used in the new member states to solve problems, especially in the area of housing for the socially vulnerable population.
let me thank mr janowski for his priority approach to disadvantaged regions, which are not very attractive to investors because of their lack of technical equipment. building research and development infrastructure is a great opportunity to keep scientists and researchers in remote regions, so member states and regional authorities need to support innovative projects that deepen public-private partnerships with businesses, especially smes, universities, technology training centres, with the partnership of civil society. at the same time, i recommend drawing on the experience of the euroregions, their established cross-border structures and, above all, their ability to successfully implement projects through the structural funds, which are an important tool for the union's innovation capacity. i consider the transparency of information to be a key factor in innovation. the business community and local authorities in the new member states do not have relevant information on the new commission initiatives jaspers, jeremie and jessica. without relevant and rapidly delivered information, innovation will not be people-centred and will not improve people's lives, and the objective of the innovation strategy for the european union, which is a competitive european union with thriving smes from rich european regions, will not be met. commissioner, thank you for your presence, which adds a great deal of seriousness to this debate.
mr president, at the end of august 2006 a hungarian student in slovakia was beaten. on her blouse the offenders wrote two slogans, well known from the period after the second world war, when hungarians were expelled from slovakia on the basis of collective guilt: ‘hungarians go back over the danube’, and ‘slovakia without parasites’. at the time, the slovak prime minister said that such a thing could have happened anywhere in the world. after a very strange two-week investigation, the minister of the interior announced to the media that nothing had happened and the whole story had been made up by the student herself. they indicated that she might be accused of giving false testimony. last week that happened. it is a real shock for hungarians living in slovakia. the victim and the students and teacher who witnessed her situation after the offence are now standing up to the police, which accused her, and to the government, which humiliated her. the first two elements making up the area of freedom, security and justice failed. the case will certainly be a test of justice. of course, it is doubtful: will the court rule against the police corps and the government?
mrs bauer mentioned the case of an alleged assault on a student in slovakia last year. in the course of the investigation, experts carried out forensic biology, chemistry, genetic analysis, expert writing and medical expertise. the investigation revealed that the student's statements were not true. the student thereby fulfilled the factual nature of perjury and perjury. in any democratic state, in such a case, the investigator will bring charges of perjury and perjury. the chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the parliament of the republic of hungary stated at a press conference that he considered it outrageous that slovakia was preparing an elaborate process. ladies and gentlemen, such statements are a gross interference by the political forces of another country in the work of independent law enforcement agencies in order to create tension. they deserve our condemnation. investigations and proceedings are conducted in accordance with the law. the case will be decided by an independent tribunal.
in her report, the rapporteur has addressed a number of very serious problems facing the european union today, whether it be the policy of reimbursement of medical treatment or the mobility of patients or the mobility of healthcare workers, as well as the legal liability for errors. i want to emphasize that the patient can in no way be considered a tourist or an economic speculator. the patient travels abroad for medical treatment because the treatment is not available in his country or the waiting period is too long. the risk of the provision of health services becoming medical tourism is low. the patient wants to be treated in an environment where he has loved ones and where he understands the language of the country. the percentage of patient mobility is about 1%, according to statistics. however, the future of the guarantee of free movement of persons shows that it will certainly be more. without access to health services, there is no free movement of persons. therefore, it is our task to provide access without complicated negotiations with insurance companies. it is also a solution within the framework of equal rights for citizens throughout the european union. i didn't find any mention in the report of differences in survival rates between countries. why is the life expectancy of a woman with breast cancer in slovakia 30% lower than that of a woman in sweden? why does a patient in poland with rectal cancer have a 30% worse survival rate than a patient with the same diagnosis in france? patient mobility, even if it is only 1%, seems to be a key issue for many. but the fact that a large proportion of doctors and nurses have left the 12 new member states is of no interest to anyone. so we don't have a problem with doctor mobility, but we do have a problem with patient mobility? i call on the commission to prepare a new proposal which will be a strategic document proposing a solution to this issue for the future: ehealth, reducing disparities between member states and using the structural funds for health purposes.
let me thank mrs. vergnaud and the shadow reporters for their work. so, to start, i'd like to talk about the different kinds of mobility that we can have in healthcare. this is, for example, a cross-border provision in the form of the supply of a service from the territory of one state to another without the patient or healthcare professional leaving the territory of his state. these include telemedicine services, remote diagnosis, remote prescribing and so on. second, it's the classic patient mobility that we talk about most, and that's using services abroad, where a patient travels to a provider for treatment. thirdly, it is the temporary presence of qualified persons in the territory of another member state, that is the mobility of health workers for the purpose of providing services, and fourthly, the possibility of a permanent presence of the service provider, that is the establishment of health facilities in the territory of another member state, as mr karas indicated to me in his contribution. to ensure that these types of mobility are gradually introduced into legislation and into practice, we need to ask and answer a number of fundamental questions in a responsible manner. these are the following questions: are there common values and principles of healthcare that citizens across the european union can rely on? how can a mechanism for adequate financial compensation be ensured? how can patients and professionals identify and compare providers? what is the degree of flexibility of the member states to avoid creating unjustified obstacles to free movement? how to provide long-term care and social services? and many other questions. these questions will certainly need to be answered by the commission, but also by the council and parliament in cooperation with each other in legislation to deal with the effects and consequences of the exclusion of health services from the services directive.
madam rapporteur, congratulations on your report on water policy. the report we are discussing today is very much in line with the report i am rapporteur for, namely the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides. all 8 substances listed in the other pollutants group are pesticides and most of the priority substances are also pesticides. the level of pollution of european waters by pesticides and other chemicals is very serious. this justifies the need to address the issue of surface water as well as the issue of pesticides at the level of the european union and not at the level of the member states. i therefore welcome the introduction of environmental quality standards that will be binding on all 27 eu countries. my report focuses, among other things, on the protection of the aquatic environment. the creation of protection zones of at least 10 metres along watercourses, the prohibition of aerial spraying of pesticides, including the prohibition of the use of certain pesticides near watercourses, the quantitative limitation of their use, are all newly proposed measures that are also intended to contribute to protection. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal that 8 substances from the group of other pollutants be relegated to the group of priority substances. however, water is not just a european union problem, and cooperation with third countries is also important. it will not be effective to introduce these measures in the european union if we have to leak contaminated water from third countries. some parts of eastern slovakia, which are among the poorest in slovakia, have insufficient groundwater supplies. so drinking water is also obtained by treating surface water, not groundwater. these parts of slovakia often have existential problems, and sanitation is inadequate and in some parts even lacking. so it is easy to see why this part of slovakia has such a high incidence of gastrointestinal diseases. then we spend a lot of money on treatment and vaccinations. these problems must be prevented by providing safe drinking water. an investment in surface water quality is an investment in health. the slovak republic uses only about 25% of its structural funds resources for environmental purposes. this number is alarmingly low. i suggest a higher use.
i would like to join those who thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, for the excellent work she has done in preparing this important text. the fact that we have been discussing clean water on the floor of the european parliament for the last two years shows that this is a very topical issue. today's topic is a direct follow-up to the groundwater directive and is logically and materially related to it. i am pleased that the european parliament and the council have reached a result in the negotiations on the previous two standards, although it is known that divergent views had to be resolved by means of conciliation. i believe that we as members of the european parliament must be more demanding than the commission proposal and include some other substances in the list of particularly harmful substances which are not yet present there. i am referring to teratogenic and carcinogenic substances in general, as well as to the so-called heavy metals which, unfortunately, are being dumped by industrial undertakings not only into surface waters but also into groundwater. last but not least, those who, through negligence or gross negligence, cause gasoline, oil, and petroleum products to leak into surface waters and groundwater reservoirs must be severely punished. in slovakia, we have a sad experience, as in the neighbouring czech republic, with the massive pollution of water, including groundwater, by the soviet occupation troops, who occupied our country for 21 long years. it is also necessary to ensure that no particularly harmful pesticides, which are used excessively in agriculture and thus directly endanger the health of the population, enter the waters. however, when determining the number of substances of particular concern, we must rely on scientifically verifiable information and evidence of harm to humans and other living organisms. i therefore call on the commission to draw up a separate legislative proposal so that the new standards become binding by 2015 at the latest.
when ngos in my country started a campaign against violence a few years ago under the slogan "one in five women", part of the political elite but also public opinion was outraged, because what is true in austria is certainly not true in slovakia. because at that time, there were no data on violence. recent research shows that the situation is far worse, with about 40 percent of students reporting that they are, or have been, witnesses or even victims of violence. and yet my country is no worse or better than the surrounding countries. this is a very serious social problem, as highlighted by the dialogue with a thousand children and young people that took place during the preparation of the strategy on the rights of the child. among the priorities was the first to formulate the issue of violence faced by children. in this respect, i would like to welcome the report by mrs gröner, who has been particularly committed to this report, and i am very pleased that this programme is running so successfully and at this point with wider resources. however, it is essential that we create a better legislative framework to combat violence. i know very well from the report on trafficking in human beings how important cooperation and to some extent the harmonisation of certain legislation is as far as european and national legislation is concerned. in this case i think it is really necessary, and i very much appreciate mr frattini's efforts in this regard. i would like to point out the positive role of ngos, which are playing a truly indispensable role in this area. in this respect, i would also welcome efforts to facilitate access to these resources by these ngos.
mr. prime minister prodi, allow me to welcome you. you are a politician with a wealth of experience in managing the nation state as well as the european commission, which you headed. i would like to stress that the adoption of a constitutional treaty is essential for the successful future of the european union. we recently celebrated the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome. this number alone says that a lot has changed since then and that the contracts still in force need to be changed. the european community then had 6 states and was more of an economic grouping. today, the european union has 27 members, 12 of whom are former communist regimes. the face of the european union today is therefore very different from that of 1957. 50-year-old contracts are opaque, complicatedly written, and arguably outdated. we feel it is inevitable to adopt a new constitutional document, new clear rules of the game. it is important to remember that the reforms offered by the constitutional treaty, such as legal personality, the binding enshrinement of fundamental human rights, the attorney general, institutional reform, reform of the legislative process, are all changes that can take the european union further. it's high time to end this period of reflection and move into a period of action. dear prime minister prodi, i want to thank you for trusting slovakia when it was possible to make the journey you said would be a long one. slovakia is a young, new member of the european union and it trusts you, as it trusts italy and the european union, which will change its rules of the game.
allow me to thank in particular rapporteur paul rübig, but also angelica niebler and the other rapporteurs, namely mr muscat, mr coveney, mr mauro, mr matsis, and the council, represented by our dear colleague mr joachim wuermeling, for their work on this difficult report. i also thank commissioner reding for the very sensitive and detailed analysis she and her team used to prepare this regulation and for the close cooperation with the european parliament. european consumers, especially tourists, students and business people, were often not pleasantly surprised by the high cost of their mobile phone bill when they returned from abroad. following constructive discussions in the european parliament, price ceilings have been set in such a way as to significantly reduce costs for roaming customers on the one hand and to ensure sufficient scope for price competition between mobile operators on the other. i'm happy to see a compromise that will have a profound impact on the average european consumer. the consumer will have three months to decide whether to change his current tariff scheme to a so-called eurotariff or to keep his current tariff model. i am glad that the european parliament has succeeded in ensuring that those who have agreed more favourable contracts do not automatically fall under the consumer protection tariff, but that they retain the more favourable, pre-agreed contract. the final draft also managed to push for the regulation to be valid for only three years. i am convinced that a truly competitive market will also be created in the area of roaming calls and that further regulation will not be necessary in the future. ladies and gentlemen, europe needs concrete results and the adoption of this european legislation in such a record time is a great step forward for the benefit of our european citizens. it is clear that when europe has a serious and concrete project, it can reach an agreement quickly.
i voted for the realistic approach in mrs vergnaud's report because it is clear that the decisions of the court of justice of the european communities, which have upheld the rights of patients and defended their right to be treated in a country other than their own, should their health be seriously endangered or should their lives be directly threatened, interfere with the competences of the national states. but we know that healthcare was excluded from the european union's remit in the services directive and remains strictly within the remit of the national states. it is clearer than the sun that patient mobility will increase in europe. patients will naturally seek access to treatment that ensures that they are treated according to the latest medical knowledge. and it's not just workers who work in another country. this may also be the case for a patient who seeks outstanding treatment abroad that would not be available in his country of origin for objective reasons and who decides to travel for this care.
for the ppe-de group. first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, mr gierek, for his balanced and complete report. despite the fact that the report touches on all known aspects of the development of innovation in the european union, i would like to highlight one important factor that should have a cross-cutting effect across the whole innovation strategy. i am thinking of the promotion of a competitive environment and also the flexibility of initiatives that should be the driving force behind the development of innovation in firms, clusters, technology and development centres and so on. the creation of a level playing field for the implementation of activities based on sufficient potential of knowledge, experience and practice is a decisive factor for the smooth development of all initiatives in this field, in order to meet the needs of the market as effectively as possible. we therefore need to create mechanisms at local, regional, national or international level to allow the creation of natural knowledge clusters for the application of knowledge through a r&d and business environment with a flexible structure that allows them to both cooperate and compete with each other. in practice, this means that a university, r&d centre or an innovative firm can cooperate on one innovative project in a certain advantageous cluster, while, for example, on another innovative project in another cluster, they will be in stiff competition. in defining a new strategy, we will therefore avoid inflexible long-term mechanisms which, after a certain period of time, become self-contained, institutionalised, fixate on a generally justifiable long-term system based often on absurd conditions, such as the principle of excellence or critical mass, which usually disqualify, in particular, small actors in the field of innovation. these complex mechanisms further inefficiently drain vast amounts of resources and, over time, lose the ability to respond flexibly to the speed and changing demands of the times in a global world.
i would like to begin by thanking rapporteur gierek and our shadow rapporteur on the itre committee, mr hudacki, for having incorporated into this report a number of amendments from the opinions of the regi and imco committees, which i helped draft as shadow rapporteur for our political group. in a globalising world, the european union is facing new challenges and promoting the commercial exploitation of research and development results must therefore be a cornerstone of strengthening competitiveness. the european union has many tools at its disposal which need to be used more effectively to promote innovation. i am thinking in particular of internal market instruments such as public procurement for innovative products and services, the establishment of public-private partnerships in innovative areas and the application of technical standards. i am convinced that we can expect the rapid and efficient arrival of technical innovation through standardisation and therefore i am particularly pleased that the rapporteur has recognised this fact and has incorporated my amendments in his report concerning the rapid establishment of technical standards in new areas, in particular in the areas of innovative and telecommunications technologies. in my amendments i have stressed the importance of identifying and supporting leading markets quickly. one example of potential lead markets where the european union can gain global leadership is the smart textile industry, environmental technologies or the electronic health card. we must turn our attention to europe's regions now, with very little time left before the lisbon strategy's target date of 2010. a competitive europe needs more than ever the dynamism of its regions, their creative spirit and their enthusiasm for innovation. regional partnerships based on cooperation networks of smes, universities, research institutes, local authorities and financial institutions can be triggered by a systematic transparent and incentive framework for state aid. i call on the member states not to underestimate the support for the development of innovative strategies, which must be a priority for operational programmes. i believe that if the union takes the opportunity to allocate a sufficient proportion of its structural funds to investment in research, innovation and further training, this will create new jobs, prevent brain drain and depopulation, especially in less attractive european regions.
as mr solana and commissioner ferrero-waldner have informed us, the situation in the middle east is indeed critical. it is critical in lebanon, it remains critical in palestinian-israeli relations. however, the very meaning of the word 'critical' is dramatic, especially because it is a state of economic, economic and social decline accompanied by terrorist attacks and activities, kidnappings or the death of civilians. the growing hostility and attacks against the state of israel and its citizens are causing fear and anxiety, which are resulting in actions that are incomprehensible to us. the regions are in a difficult situation, the conflict is deepening, the ceasefire is not being respected. last week's quartet meeting also concluded that an active role for our aid in the peace process is essential. but the level of disappointment on both sides, whether in palestine or israel, is as high as our efforts to help the peace process. it will therefore be necessary to step up and intensify our diplomatic efforts - and i want to stress that in a balanced way. our activities should not give the impression that we are on one side. it is our duty to ask israel to release funds, but it is also our duty to ensure that these funds are actually invested in the area of economic and social development. at the same time, it is our duty to guarantee to the citizens of the state of israel the elementary protection of their lives and the elementary protection of their state.
for the pse group. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and thank him for his good cooperation. last month, the budget committee was filled with marketing experts. they agreed that web television is an excellent information tool for citizens of the european union. it is therefore necessary to complete this project as soon as possible. we in the committee agreed that there was a need to involve small and local media more widely in the activities of the european parliament. this will improve the european union's citizens' awareness of the work of the european parliament. but we have different views on how to engage these media. one view is: let's give every member of parliament the means to invite journalists who work at local level to visit the european parliament. this is not the kind of cooperation our group can support. that is why, on behalf of the members of the group of the party of european socialists, we are tabled an amendment to adopt clear rules of the game for communication with local and regional media - on the one hand, to attract as many local journalists as possible to brussels and strasbourg, and on the other hand, to make our approach clean and transparent. i am sure you all want your work to be effective. you have to be able to show your constituents that you're using their funds in the most economical way. however, it is often the case that decisive documents are available to members for committee discussions only in one or two language versions. when there is then another extraordinary meeting of the committee to do so, this has a negative impact on the whole procedure and leads to an inefficient use of resources. i therefore trust, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support the amendment which aims to prevent these shortcomings and avoid unnecessary cost increases.
the european parliament is not a cheap joke. the volume of funds exceeding eur 1 427 million is a considerable sum and it is certainly important that the individual titles and the volumes of use of these funds are clearly justified. in this respect, however, the estimate of parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2008 still contains a fair number of unknowns and is somewhat of a blank check. i believe that the rapporteur has rightly named a number of bottlenecks in his report, and it must also be acknowledged that the rate of collective movements in recent years has been quite high. in 2005, the volume of transfers reached over eur 124 million, and in 2006 it was over eur 105 million. this represents almost 10% of the budget. parliament's call for the administration to estimate more precisely the budgetary needs in each of the expenditure groups is therefore certainly appropriate. i also strongly support the idea of creating a specific programme to promote the work of the european parliament by involving smaller regional media in this system. these media are not subject to so much tabloid press and can correctly bring information about the decisions of the european institutions, including the european parliament, to the citizens.
i would like to commend mrs garcia for the great work she has done in the report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down specific rules for the fruit and vegetables sector. the divergent discussions within the agri committee on this proposal have revealed risks based both on the content of the proposal itself but, above all, on the spirit of the legislative act. the greatest risks are in the early application of some regulations in practice and in the low commitment of the european union budget. this is only 3.1% of the budget, with a 17% share of the total agricultural production of the european union. salads, radishes, small fruits and virtually the entire range of fruit and vegetables are the most delicate agricultural commodities on the market and ensuring their smooth transfer from farm to table is the most complex organisational task. the european commission cannot therefore consider that it can continue to pass on to farmers the entire responsibility for the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. another major risk of the proposal under discussion is also the disadvantage to the new member states. the new member states do not have functioning producer organisations and their establishment and full operation will take several years. over the decades, fruit and vegetable producers in the european fifteen have gradually become equal trading partners in interaction with trading systems. it is therefore reasonable to expect that, following the application of the proposal under discussion, production in the new member states, which is already decimated, would decrease further. therefore, i think that these risks need to be addressed as a matter of priority in the finishing process.
in writing. the european parliament's legislative resolution, which we voted on today, which parliament adopted and which i also supported, is a major milestone in the enlargement of the schengen area. this provision contributes to the speedy application of the acquis communautaire in the field of the schengen information system in the territory of slovakia and the other visegrad four countries, all the baltic countries and slovenia. we have all asked the council and all the slovak members of parliament to ensure that the enlargement of the schengen area is not postponed until 17 december 2008, which is unacceptable to us, and that is why the process has been reviewed and accelerated, which i believe will also be a reality for the slovaks in 2007. i welcome the fact that the introduction of the technical assistance and information systems sis, sis ii and sisone4all will be implemented in time, and the fact that it was the european parliament that made the huge effort to reach an agreement at first reading so that parliament would not cause any delay in the introduction of sis ii. the citizens of the new member states are eagerly awaiting the introduction of the schengen area, which is widely perceived as the real and definitive completion of integration into the european union without any remainder.
in writing. the free movement of persons within the schengen area is the visible and practical fulfilment of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the treaty on the european community. for our citizens, the free movement of persons without passport controls is a concrete example of what membership of the european union brings. in the schengen area, the european border will move eastwards from the czech-german border to the slovak-ukrainian border from 1 january 2008, thanks to a portuguese proposal. the date of enlargement was agreed by the member states' interior ministers after many months of negotiations and countless discussions. in 2004, the european commission declared that, due to technical delays, it had to present a new timetable, which envisaged the launch of sis ii by 17 december 2008. the original extension was threatened with being extended until 2009. i voted in favour of the report by rapporteur coelho on the proposal for a council decision on the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis relating to the schengen information system of the new member states joining the union. i trust that the new member states will fulfil all the necessary conditions to secure the schengen external border in line with the recommendations of the ep rapporteur. even if the new sis ii has not been launched as planned, sufficient time will be allowed for the technical completion of sis ii during the temporary integration of the new member states into the existing sisone4all information system. i am convinced that meeting the deadline for the enlargement of the schengen area will help to increase citizens' confidence in the european project as a whole.
yes, mr president, i voted in favour of the european parliament's regulation on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to foods, which lays down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission, and i support the council decision of 17 july 2006 on comitology, which can be summarised in the phrase 'regulatory procedure with scrutiny'. the european parliament adopted a text which allows the commission to be empowered to adopt, in justified cases, quasi-legislative measures within the meaning of article 2 of decision no 468 of 1999, as amended by decision no 512 of 2006, laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission. this decision is a step in the right direction in this case. in general, however, the european parliament is to retain the power to decide democratically on legislative procedures by the decision of its members.
in writing. critics very often judge the eu as a strong organisation that meddles in too many areas. as a member of parliament for slovakia, a new member state that has only recently joined the union, i feel that we should have a stronger and more active europe. for this reason, i believe it is essential to adopt a revised constitutional document, i.e. clear rules of the game. the union needs a reform of the founding treaties that will have broad public support. i appreciate angela merkel's efforts to bring the union out of its constitutional crisis by introducing a roadmap that provides appropriate solutions to the problems facing the european union both internally and externally, as well as to the problems associated with the enlargement and deepening of the eu's political dimension. the enlarged eu needs the tools and means to enable it to function effectively, to strengthen its role in the world and to address the concerns of its citizens, against the backdrop of the challenges posed by, inter alia, globalisation, climate change, energy security and an ageing population. many of the issues of greatest concern to the european public, such as the services directive and the financial framework, have since been resolved. as the berlin declaration on the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome confirmed, the eu must be built on a renewed common basis before the 2009 european elections, which is why i voted in favour of the report by the rapporteurs enrique barón crespo and elmar brok.
these days, news media from several european cities are reporting on the disasters caused by extreme weather. the hot june weather causes torrential rains that cause considerable concern to citizens and immense damage to property in slovak regions. what causes weather extremes? over the last 50 years, we've created systems to quickly drain rainwater that still drains the agricultural-urban landscape. it is the rainwater that once cooled the country and kept its climate stable. the radiant heat from the dry land, which heats up very quickly, pushes the clouds into the cooler mountain environment, where they pour in extreme intensity and cause flooding. colleagues, as a member of the interim committee on climate change, i will be pushing for solutions that can retain rainwater in the arid regions of all continents. i believe this is one of the ways that we can contribute in a cheaper, more effective and less conflictual way to combat climate change. i hope that i will be able to win as many supporters as possible for this idea, particularly in the european parliament.
the slovak republic is preparing responsibly to join the schengen area, together with other countries, by implementing a number of security measures. this week, the slovak-ukrainian border will be visited by the european union's evaluation commission to assess the readiness to guard the future eastern border of schengen. we are also trying to meet all the criteria for joining the euro area, because we see both schengen and the euro as the culmination of european integration. unfortunately, we are still faced with statements from senior politicians who question the extension of the schengen borders. the latest was a statement by the austrian interior minister, who, in connection with next year's football championships in vienna, questioned 1 january 2008 as the actual date of the extension in the newspaper der standard. i believe that was just his personal opinion. needless to say, statements like this are not only reinforcing the influence of eurosceptics in my country. i therefore ask the european commission to strictly respect the promised deadlines for schengen entry.
i would like to make a few serious comments on the current process of adopting development programmes as part of the use of european funds and their implementation systems. i know that the commission is doing a lot of sisyphean work in this area, but it must be stressed that in many cases, especially in the new member states, there is not enough assets in the hands of the public administration. it is recognised that several of these countries lack the know-how of best practices for implementation, that there is a lack of skilled workers in their labour markets, that their information and monitoring systems lack quality software, and so on. i would therefore like to invite the commission to intervene further in this direction and to allow individual national implementation systems to link up and exchange information on problems and their solutions as widely as possible, on best practices on how to operate effectively in this area, especially in the direction from the old member states to the new ones, for example in the form of a dedicated website, by organising seminars for the individual problem areas and so on. as a member of the committee on regional development, i would be very sorry to have to say at the end of the 2007-2013 budget period that the funds for regional development have not been used to a large extent or have been used inefficiently.
i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur, mr hokmark, for his very good and balanced report. i will not go into the details and stress the great importance of further developing broadband connectivity for the economic development of the european union and its member states. but i would like to focus on the problem of access to these networks in rural or remote, less populated areas. this problem is evident in most of the new member states. it is the less developed regions that need much more attention than is currently being given by the european union, but especially by national governments. how can broadband operators be encouraged and motivated to invest more in these regions? i think that national, regional and local authorities should come up with new systemic incentives, which should include tax instruments or better access to public funding through public-private projects, which should be prioritised to build technical infrastructure for broadband networks in the locality. public resources invested in this way will pay off very quickly, both in encouraging entrepreneurial activities through the knowledge economy and in more efficient delivery of public services through, for example, e-government, e-health, e-learning or e-procurement. on the other hand, i would like to call on the european commission to take these aspects seriously in defining a european broadband policy and in developing a regulatory framework. paradoxically, overly restrictive regulatory policies in an area so important from the point of view of the need to increase the competitiveness of the european economy can lead to a slowdown in economic development and to an increase in disparities between regions. in my view, at this stage of the development of broadband, the possible introduction of unbundling may play a rather negative role in the form of a lower rate of private investment in the less developed regions mentioned.
let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr schnellhardt, for his work on this subject. i would also like to highlight the work of some polish members in drawing up amendments which seek to protect the tradition of vodka, which is the domain of the production of the eastern european countries, and thus the traditional, centuries-old production methods which have their history in the 15th century and should be respected according to the traditions of the countries which first began to produce these drinks. the main point of contention in this report is the definition of vodka, namely what ingredients a drink must contain to be labelled vodka. in eastern european countries, vodka has for centuries been defined as a spirit drink made from grain, potatoes, or sugar beet molasses. i repeat, since vodka is the domain of eastern european countries, not western european countries, i ask colleagues from other countries to respect this definition and not to extend it to drinks flavoured with various citrus fruits and the like. for these and other drinks which are the domain of production of other countries, another designation must be found, in order to avoid, in particular, misleading the consumer.
member states are rightly proud of the fact that the way in which the raw materials are produced and the traditional processing of the raw materials is respected, recognised and protected when we talk about traditional names such as cognac, champagne, scotch whisky, rum, port and the like. these terms are commonly used and it is natural that producers have clearly defined the technological process followed in the production and the starting materials are similarly defined. this is naturally guarded with jealousy and care by producers in traditional countries of origin. therefore, for example, slovak producers in the past had to change the word rum to something else, as they did not produce it from sugar cane and in an original way. in other words, the producers in the new countries have already paid their harmonisation tax. now we have the case where the majority of the original 15 countries have to prove that they are fair, that they are correct and that what they have consistently demanded of us in the past they will respect in the opposite direction when it concerns them. so it's vodka as discussed here. we are witnessing a sudden demand to call vodka second- and third-class alcohol made from bananas and various other fruits. the consumer will then be misled into thinking that he is consuming vodka and will stop buying the product. this will harm honest producers who respect tradition and who produce vodka exclusively from the raw material that corresponds to it. ladies and gentlemen, according to the traditions of finland, poland, slovakia, the czech republic and all the other scandinavian countries, the name vodka can be given only and exclusively to a product that has been made either from grain or from potatoes. i therefore ask you to take this into account when voting and to adopt these arguments.
at the beginning of my speech, i would like to note that the fur industry in slovakia has its historical significance and its real development took place practically only after 1990. since slovakia's accession to the eu, slovak fur traders have been importing used fur materials exclusively from purchasers in the eu member states, who, as direct importers, ensure all the attributes of the legitimacy of the imports, including their certificates. i understand and feel the same need as the rapporteur, mrs svensson, that, on the basis of the large number of petitions and the concerns expressed by consumers and citizens across the eu, the commission could not fail to act on the issue of banning the trade in cat and dog fur. it is indeed necessary to clarify the legal requirements in all member states. we need to respond to the ethical concerns expressed by citizens regarding the possible presence of cat and dog fur in the community, in particular in light of indications that these animals may be inhumane to keep and kill. consumers are concerned that cat and dog fur cannot be easily distinguished from other fur or synthetic material imitating fur and there is therefore a justification for unfair and fraudulent practices in the use of fur products, including fraudulent or even misleading labelling. there is no tradition in the community of rearing cats and dogs for fur production. in fact, the vast majority of cat and dog fur products present in the community originate from third countries. customs controls on the movement of goods from third countries into the european union should be tightened precisely to protect the internal market. the illegality of imports can be addressed by stricter procedures against the implementers, including high financial penalties up to an activity ban. i believe that on the one hand, european legislation is needed to unify the rules on the markets of the various eu countries. on the other hand, the eu initiative must not be a brake and cause problems for the fur industry in relation to the legitimate fur trade. we need to prevent obstacles to the functioning of the internal market and ensure the free movement of legally traded fur and fur products in general.
in writing i am deeply concerned about the situation in the palestinian territories these days. the palestinian government is divided, the fatah-hamas government was doomed to fail despite the election result, and it was only a matter of time before it erupted into a bloody conflict. hamas prides itself on its founding charter that it aims to destroy israel. today we see in hamas' behavior that it has never renounced its terrorist actions and thoughts. how are we supposed to work to help a palestinian citizen who lives in a refugee camp, is unemployed and in miserable social conditions, when the same palestinian citizen chooses in the elections a movement that lives by terrorism and its goal is to destroy its neighbor, israel? how can we work to implement the oslo agreements and to achieve the creation of two equal states, palestine and israel, when one of the partners dreams of destroying the very existence of the neighbour with whom it should live in peace by means of war and terrorism? as a member of the euromed political group, i call on parliament to condemn all forms of terrorism in palestine and links with hezbollah extremists. the european union must support the peace process in both palestine and israel. finally, the eu's humanitarian aid there should not end up in the hands of terrorist organisations in an opaque way.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs panayotopoulos for her great cooperation. it has allowed all the political groups to be included in its report without distorting the essential message. she's used to compromise because she's a mother of nine. i would like to stress two points. first, the conditions must be created to ensure that the responsibility of raising young people is not just a heavy burden added to the training requirements. this is true for both young men and young women. this requires the implementation of appropriate information campaigns. the second point concerns national and community policies. statistics show that in scandinavian countries 30 to 40 percent of young people in training do not deny the happiness and responsibility of being parents. the european union could usefully put its experience in promoting dialogue and the exchange of best practice at the service of all member states. higher and vocational education institutions also have a responsibility to set up childcare services within their institutions. it would be interesting to create competition between universities at this level: it would no longer be limited to the quality of teaching, but would extend to the supervision of students' parents. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of grandparents, their central role in the process of child rearing and in helping young parents who are studying or working. in the light of the many changes in the career paths of workers in the era of globalisation, this represents a chance for the young retiree to make himself useful in a different way.
in writing. i am very pleased that we have adopted the ep directive on the minimum safety and health requirements for the use of work equipment by workers at work. the consolidated proposal was drawn up on the basis of the consolidated version of directive 89/655/eec by means of a data-processing system. it is very important that the employer always takes the necessary measures to ensure that workers have the means and conditions for the work in question to ensure their safety and protection at work. as sometimes new employers in particular tend to think more about their net profit than about financing a whole range of protective measures or about creating safe operations, this leads to damage to the health, sometimes even to the life of workers. employers now have a clear framework of standards to adhere to and i therefore welcome the adoption of this text, which clearly strengthens the protection of health and safety in the work process.
in writing. we have approved the consolidated proposal on the basis of the provisional consolidated version of directive 83/477/eec, as amended. i am aware that improving the safety, hygiene and health protection of workers is the objective of removing asbestos and all asbestos-containing substances, which present a high risk to the health of citizens as they present a carcinogenic risk, from the working environment of citizens. the consolidation of this directive gives us a binding text which does not allow the use of asbestos and its derivatives in new construction and in demolition and remediation works and reinforces in every respect, as far as possible, the position of workers who come into contact with asbestos. i also welcome the preventive measures in the field of occupational health.
the entry of slovakia into the european union has brought about changes in the product nomenclature for producers of liqueur and spirits. the producers were not thrilled with the changes, but they were disciplined to comply with the necessity of changing the terminology. the rum that became um could have remained rum if it had been made from sugar cane juice. for economic reasons, producers have remained loyal to corn or beet molasses. therefore, we do not have rum in slovakia, but rum with specific rum essences, which the consumer continues to consume for its taste, which has evolved over generations and has not changed even with the entry into the union. these are the reasons, which i understand from my colleagues in poland, sweden, finland, estonia, latvia and lithuania, why i signed and voted in favour of the amendment which calls for a strict definition of vodka and considers only cereals, potatoes and, where appropriate, sugar beet molasses as acceptable raw materials. i do not consider acceptable the schnellhardt compromise, which would not change the label of vodka from cereals, potatoes or molasses and would require a product from other raw materials to bear the words 'vodka produced from ...' followed by the original ingredient. it's that simple, and that simple should be the definition in the eu. as this amendment was not adopted, i abstained on the report by mr schnellhardt.
i voted against the report by mrs ferreira because in paragraph 13 the rapporteur proposes the introduction of a consolidated tax base throughout the eu. the harmonisation of the tax base would, in my view, be the first step towards harmonising the corporate tax rate and would thus have a negative impact on reducing competitive pressure between individual member states. in my view, tax competition is necessary because it forces states to introduce the necessary reforms. my country, slovakia, is currently experiencing an economic boom thanks to numerous reforms by former prime minister mikuláš dzurinda. slovakia is an example of how transparent, simple and neutral rules bring increased revenues to the state budget. the tax revenue depends not only on the tax rate but also on the breadth of the tax base and on the number of exemptions, deductions, special schemes and the like. for this reason, i am strictly against any harmonisation of corporation tax.
i welcome the report by mrs mccarthy, who points out the problems of transposition and implementation of public procurement legislation, which are increasingly important for the eu's economic growth and its internal market. public procurement markets in the member states must be opened up to cross-border competition in order to create a level playing field for suppliers, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, throughout the community. the new directive clarifies how to meet environmental and social requirements. however, it is necessary to ensure that contracting entities do not apply those criteria in a way that discriminates against firms in other member states. i agree with the rapporteur that the establishment of national advisory bodies in the field of public procurement would help contracting authorities to apply the public procurement rules correctly and would make it easier for tenderers, in particular smes, to submit tenders for public contracts. the key to the successful transposition of european legislation is a high level of professionalism in the administration, which must be depoliticized. only a highly qualified official with extensive experience in the civil service or in local government, continuously trained in his or her field, can respond correctly to the new challenges of european legislation. in the new post-communist member states in particular, the changeover to the new government has become a national sport in almost all official posts, even where professionalism should be the main deciding factor. based on my long experience in the civil service and in local government functions, including in the field of public procurement, i am convinced that only a competent administration with a high credit rating can carry out the responsible transposition of eu legislation into national law. it is important that member states do not impose obligations on natural and legal persons going beyond the scope of the transposed legislation and do not place unnecessary administrative burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. i believe that the active mutual exchange of knowledge and best practice in the field of transposition of public procurement legislation between member states and the modernisation and simplification of public procurement rules will significantly increase the efficiency of the public procurement process in the eu.
let me also begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr papadimoulis, for his report calling for a ban on the export of mercury, mercury compounds and products containing mercury. this is very important for us in the european union, as the european union is one of the largest exporters of mercury in the world. since it is a very toxic substance, especially for children, we must be concerned not only about protection during the manufacturing process and, if necessary, the use of products containing mercury, but also about storage and, in particular, the handling of waste containing mercury. high doses of mercury are fatal to humans, and lower doses that accumulate in the body can cause serious diseases of the immune, cardiovascular and reproductive systems. large excesses of mercury are produced in industry, e.g. as by-products in the chemical industry, in natural gas refining, in non-ferrous metal mining, but also in the smelting industry. it is necessary to consider whether the export of excess mercury to third countries, especially developing countries, which are the largest consumers of mercury, will really rid us of this mercury. many developing countries lack the funding for modern green technologies and controls are less strict. i agree and support the rapporteur that the european union should not use a double standard, that is, if a product is not allowed to be used in the european union, it should not be exported to countries where there is no legislation regulating the use of mercury. we should be aware of this not only from the point of view of environmental protection and conservation, but also of the fact that this mercury can be returned to us as residues in food or through polluted rivers, not to mention the risk of contamination of local workers and residents. the european union must ensure that its stocks of mercury and products containing it are in line with its needs and demand. the surplus mercury must be disposed of in an environmentally friendly manner in accordance with the directive on hazardous waste which we have already adopted. at the same time, monitoring needs to be strengthened and possible breaches must be met with strict sanctions. i agree with the rapporteur that those producers who produce mercury in their production should also be responsible for its safe storage or environmental disposal. it is also important for the further development of the industry to move to new alternative technologies that do not require mercury. in helping developing countries, we too should do more to help implement these technologies where the environment is now devastated by this dangerous chemical.
the frosts that hit polish fruit and vegetable growers in late april and early may are likely to destroy about 90% of their annual harvest. the weather did not spare slovak growers of these crops. according to published information, 80 to 100% of the flowers have been frozen, depending on the location and type of the variety. i currently live in a border region on the slovak-polish border, and therefore i can understand that climate disasters in peripheral areas have consequences not only for farmers, but also indirectly increase unemployment and lead to even greater regional inequalities. unless the eu gives a helping hand to fruit growers, their existence will be threatened. the eu should therefore set up a compensation mechanism to provide compensation for damage caused by natural disasters, but it should also not forget long-established trade links. a solution might be for domestic growers to sell foreign fruit directly to their regular customers. this would provide targeted short-term eu aid while ensuring that fruit growers remain competitive in the future. solidarity is one of the european union's founding principles, and i therefore call on the european commission to show solidarity with fruit growers whose crops have been affected by devastating frosts by taking concrete measures.
i'm a dentist by profession. as mercury is used in dental fillings amalgams, i am following with interest the european union strategy on mercury and its elimination in all areas of life where a suitable alternative exists. in principle, i agree with many of the measures that the commission is progressively presenting in the form of legislative proposals in line with the mercury strategy. but i'm anxiously waiting to see how we deal with the notion that mercury should also be removed from dental use, where mercury amalgam has been used for 150 years, and i have to say, successfully. there is no clear opinion and no evidence of toxic effects of amalgam when used appropriately. at the same time, there is no clear view on the existence of suitable alternative filling materials. i believe that if the amalgam waste in dental clinics is properly separated and stored in a suitable, safe and durable way, as proposed in the report under discussion, there is no need to eliminate amalgam as a filler at this stage.
supplementary pension insurance, the so-called second pillar of social insurance, is an integral part of modern society. in the past, we have seen reforms of labour markets and social security systems in several member states. this included reforms of pension systems. as an example, let me mention my country, slovakia, which introduced supplementary pension insurance as part of its social security reform. the second pillar has been embraced by a significant proportion of slovak citizens. the second pillar savings are privately owned. they represent a greater certainty than the promises of the state of merit pensions from state money. the advantage of the second pillar is that the pension is no longer dependent on the demographic development of the country, but on saving in own account. for the reasons mentioned above, as well as to fulfil the principle of worker mobility within the member states, i welcomed the proposal for a directive to improve the transferability of supplementary pension rights and i believe that it will make it possible to reduce the number of problems relating to the conditions for acquiring pension rights, the conditions for maintaining suspended pension rights and the transferability of acquired rights.
in particular, the commission should be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. today, juvenile crime is more alarming in its mass nature, resulting from the lowering of the age of criminal behavior and the increase in the number of crimes committed by children under the age of thirteen, and, what is more, their acts are increasingly cruel. i welcome the report by mrs batzelli, who clearly identifies the causes of juvenile delinquency and seeks answers to how to eliminate them progressively. state-of-the-art psychological research confirms that the family is the first and only place where a child learns love, respect, and esteem. it is in dysfunctional families, where parents do not give attention to children, where the child does not receive the love and understanding and support he needs, that young delinquents grow up. as early as plato, the family was considered the basic unit of social life and the principal educational institution. auguste comte called the family the bridge between the individual and society, thus pointing to its fundamental role in society. the child's education begins in the early years of his life in the family, long before he enters school. everything a child learns in and out of school shapes the right or wrong direction of his attitude and personality. the period of adolescence, during which mental life is intensified and the relationship to the problems of one's own life in the life of society is formed, requires special support in the family. the role of the family as an educational environment is not limited to the first years of a child's life but continues after independence, i.e. employment. my dear colleagues, it is not for nothing that they say that home is a hand to cry on. i believe that reducing juvenile delinquency in society is only possible if we can create such a sustainable environment in which each family can consolidate its responsible role in society. the family must be the harbor, the family must be the teacher, the family must be our support.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate mrs batzeli on her report. the title of the report says that it is up to women, the family and society as a whole to respond to juvenile delinquency. i would have liked to see men and fathers of families included in the title. we all know how important they are, and i hope that in future we will be able to speak without shame about the role of fathers in the various european policies. extensive statistics, including those of irish researcher patrick fagan of the heritage foundation in washington, d.c., provide compelling evidence that the emotional bond between parents and their children is formed in early childhood. using statistics from the criminal investigation department, he shows that the stronger the emotional bond within the family, the lower the risk of juvenile delinquency. the lisbon strategy calls for 60% of very young children to be placed in a nursery. i do not question the desire of young parents to embark on a professional career, but in the light of the statistics and parenting experience which we all share, ladies and gentlemen, we must demand the highest possible quality of childcare. accessible childcare facilities at affordable prices should be located close to the place of work of one of the parents. i thank the rapporteur for stressing the importance of the quality of childcare facilities. ending youth violence is a responsibility that must be shared by both the family and society. the framework for state intervention must be set by society. i refuse to decriminalise and decriminalise violence by young adults and i am in favour of the european union being given a role as a monitoring centre for youth violence to institutionalize youth education.
let me begin by thanking the rapporteur for his report on this important subject. i welcome the intensification of practical cooperation between member states in the context of the need for solidarity among them in addressing problems that individual member states without internal borders cannot effectively manage. i agree with him that the decision-making process on refugee status should be faster, fairer and more reliable, which is the ultimate goal of establishing a common european asylum system. as rapporteur on the european union strategy on the rights of the child, specifically on the situation of children in third world countries, i also deal more specifically with the problems of refugee children, stateless children of immigrants and internally displaced children. many refugee and asylum-seeking children are treated as adults, leaving lasting effects on children. children suffer in refugee camps, where they are often the victims of neglect, violence, abuse, intolerance and inadequate legal protection. immigrants, refugees and internally displaced children make up 5% of asylum seekers, which highlights the need to provide children with well-trained legal representatives who will best represent their interests once they arrive in the country.
i thank mrs roith for this report. it responds to the dynamically evolving digital environment. it's an area of everyday life for all of us, whether we're consumers or business people. new technologies offer great opportunities to make full use of the internal market. however, statistics show that only 6% of european consumers engage in cross-border online shopping. 33% have problems because they are based in a different eu country than the seller of the goods. according to a eurobarometer survey, 48% of european union traders are ready to sell cross-border. only 29% of companies actually sell cross-border to at least one eu country. 57% of retailers in the european union sell online. the main obstacles to cross-border trade were identified as: transaction uncertainty, different accounting rules, complexity of complaint and dispute resolution, different national laws governing consumer protection, difficulties in providing after-sales services and excess costs resulting from cross-border delivery and translation costs. many obstacles make it more difficult to use an online environment than to do the same activity offline. i therefore consider it an important proposal to develop a strategy to increase consumer confidence. it wants to respond and take steps to make online commerce more attractive and to stop the fragmentation of the internal market in the digital environment. this should lead to improved access to goods and services offered online in another member state.
i would like to start by highlighting the work of the rapporteur, mrs roith, who has given us a very coherent and up-to-date report on consumer confidence in the digital environment. consumer confidence is a very important factor because, despite the existence of the single market and the availability of information technologies to consumers, only a very small percentage of consumers buy products and services cross-border. the most frequently cited reasons include, in particular, concerns about problems in product reclaim, the complexity of dispute resolution and the cost of translation and cross-border delivery. increasing consumer confidence will clearly increase the growth potential not only for large firms but also for smes, which can use information technologies to expand their business across the eu's internal market. the consumer must be aware of his rights. it's the only way to get rid of the suspicion of online shopping. the rapporteur has proposed a number of very specific solutions to increase consumer confidence. i hope that we will be able to incorporate many of them into the revision of the consumer acquis currently being prepared by the european commission. i support the rapporteur's idea that by creating and, above all, promoting the european charter of consumer rights, we could achieve an increase in consumer confidence in products and services offered online. consumers are very often told what they are not allowed to do on the internet, but there is no specific list of rights and obligations for online customers and traders. until consumers are aware of their rights, europe will always lag behind america or asia. the european commission should take action and exploit the potential that the internal market offers us. in conclusion, commissioner kuneva, i am very pleased that the european commission has, through you, finally given european consumer protection the importance it deserves. commissioner, i look forward to meeting you and to our cooperation.
in writing. the barcelona process is the framework that is gaining in importance and is also delivering concrete results. in the euromed parliamentary assembly too, we have recently seen progress in all sections. particularly gratifying is the progress in the political section, of which i am a member. the meda programme, on which we voted, is the eu's main financial instrument for implementing the euro-mediterranean partnership, which supports measures accompanying the reform of economic and social structures in the mediterranean partner countries with a view to reducing the gap between the two sides of the mediterranean region. the israeli-palestinian conflict is not only the cause of the deaths of many soldiers and civilians, but also brings with it the deplorable and even intractable economic and social conditions of part of palestinian society. in recent days we have witnessed a bloody conflict between the hamas and fatah movements and an escalation of violence in the palestinian authority. it is essential that the meda financial aid, which goes to palestine in addition to the other eight countries, does not end up in the hands of hamas extremists, but in the hands of the final recipients, the poor palestinian citizens.
youth crime is disturbing in its very nature and its mass. we are seeing an increase in crimes committed by children under the age of 13. sadly, statistics show that their actions are becoming increasingly cruel. youth crime certainly has multifactorial causes, such as socioeconomic conditions, the environment in which youths move, family and school, the environment of gangs, the choice of inappropriate friends, and early use of alcohol and all kinds of drugs. he wants to emphasize that unlike in the recent past, the material received finally emphasizes the absolutely unforgettable role of a well-consolidated family, in which both father and mother devote sufficient time to their children. otherwise, children lack the role models of their own family in shaping their personalities. finally, member states are encouraged to provide adequate support for families and parents. i also call on those responsible to do their utmost to limit the constant depiction in the media of excessive violence, pornographic scenes and scenes of drug use, which also appear on internet sites or in commonly available video games. i am glad that the path is not only the repression of negative phenomena, but above all the path of primary prevention.
mr president, first of all, i would like to join in congratulating you on your holiday. the refugee problem is not limited to crisis areas like malta. refugees live among us. my country, slovakia, is mainly a transit country for foreigners who have been forced to flee by war. many have found a new home here and applied for jobs. in the context of the debate on the report by my colleague hubert pirkér on asylum, practical cooperation and the quality of decision-making within the framework of the common european asylum system, i would also like to express my sincere thanks to the council for migrants and refugees of the slovak bishops' conference, also on behalf of the european parliament, and to commend its sensitive and exemplary approach to dealing with the extremely difficult situation of refugees. i see the debate on the report by my colleague hubert pirkers in the european parliament on 20 june, which is the day that the un general assembly has declared world refugee day, as a symbol of the european parliament's solidarity with the member states dealing with the plight of refugees. i am grateful to the rapporteur for this report, which i supported by voting in favour of, because it is a step towards achieving a common asylum system within the eu. it is an excellent basis for decisions that must be fast, safe and fair to all concerned.
madam chancellor, i join your congratulations on the agreement you have reached on the future of europe. the constitutional treaty was signed in rome by heads of state with great fanfare, but the period that followed showed that the heads of state had only taken a nice trip and signed an uncovered date. their signatures were not worth the votes of the electorate, as was later shown in the turbulent period of ratification and national referendums. this period has revealed all the common weaknesses that europe has. that is why your success in negotiating and your ability to compromise are to be commended. madam chancellor, the fanfare should be for you today. i hope that our work as members of the european parliament will also have a vision of cooperation, not a fight between the old 15 and the new member states, after the signing. i believe we can remove the parts of the contract that allowed for different interpretations. let me just conclude by wishing you a nice, good vacation, because you deserve it.
before joining the european union, slovakia met the requirements of the copenhagen criteria relatively well, including the rights of national minorities. but with the rise of fic's government, everything is taxable. increasing evidence confirms that this government is progressively questioning and restricting, in particular, acquired minority rights. among her first promises was to preserve the status quo of minority rights. a recent example is the attack by the ministry of culture against a hungarian daily in slovakia for illegally publishing the names of municipalities in hungarian. the attack and argumentation will not stand, because the right to use the names of municipalities in the mother tongue is guaranteed by international documents and required by the rules of each language, including hungarian. the main problem is that the current language law is still in conflict with the international documents that the slovak republic has ratified, as well as the unwillingness to implement the obligations of the european charter of languages. it is worrying that the fico government has again heightened slovak-hungarian tensions in an area that has been relatively quiet in recent years.
a year ago, lithuania was denied entry into the eurozone. lithuania fulfilled the maastricht criteria well ahead of and much better than most euro area countries. only the inflation parameter exceeded the reference level by one tenth of a percentage point. this was enough to deny lithuania entry into the euro area and caused a major domestic political crisis in lithuania. next year, slovakia's entry into the euro area will be considered. the slovak authorities have also been working on the implementation of the new legislation on the protection of personal data. it would be good if the 'rubber rule' applied to euro area member states too. such an approach raises a valid question: is the desire to expand the euro area to include eastern european countries real or fictitious?
in writing. – for many years food enzymes have been very often used in alimentary production process in order to provide the highest and the finest quality of products. as our technologies are improving and genetically modified micro-organisms are used in this process as well, there is strong need of regulation in order to ensure the safety and health of consumers at the european level. currently food enzymes used as processing aids are not covered by eu legislation. member states legislation on food enzymes differs significantly, which can lead to problems for the internal market and an unclear situation for the european consumer. that is why i support the efforts of the rapporteur and the commission to accept the package, which is designed to create a simplified common approval procedure for food enzymes.
i also agree with all the rapporteur's comments in this report. the commission reduced the health budget from an initial budget of €969 million to €365 million. it did so despite the fact that the parliament did not consider the €969 million figure to be sufficient and raised it to €1.5 billion. i consider this almost 60% cut to be very irresponsible. this is especially striking now that eastern european countries have weakened health systems because of the large numbers of doctors and nurses who have left to work in the countries of the old 15. in a situation where other programmes have only cut back between 2 and 5%, where one in three citizens in europe will get cancer, i consider this commission's position to be a mockery and ignorance, ignorance in relation to patients, citizens of the european union. it is therefore essential to support the rapporteur in his efforts to increase this small budget by at least 10% to eur 402 million and to maintain a maximum 5% ceiling for deviations. at the same time, the programme should explicitly state that the structural funds, as you mentioned, commissioner, can also be used to finance health projects if the member states make health a priority in their national programmes. until now, these funds have mostly been used for environmental projects or infrastructure construction, and only a small percentage of citizens knew that they could also finance the modernization of hospitals, the purchase of equipment and the training of health workers. i welcome the establishment of a european register of serious diseases, in particular cancer, which will help to collect data and, even more so, will show that in europe there are up to 30% of survival differences between member states for some types of cancer. i believe that also on the basis of these statistics, the commission will reassess the priorities in the field of health and allocate a budget that is appropriate.
it's been proven that the best money invested is money invested in people's health. they're the highest return on investment. i am therefore very pleased that the commission's original proposal to establish a joint programme for health but also for consumer protection for the period up to 2013 was not adopted. parliament has correctly increased the health budget to €1.5 billion from the €969 million originally allocated, thereby sending a clear signal and message to the council and the commission. the budgets for the new multiannual programmes in all policy areas have meanwhile been part of the negotiations on the new financial framework 2007 to 2013, and in this context, ladies and gentlemen, i must express my great dissatisfaction that many of the programmes, including health, have been left at a dramatically lower level of funding than the commission had originally proposed. although the european parliament was able to partially remedy the situation by spring 2006, the results for some programmes, including health, are still far from satisfactory. i'm talking about public health, where the increased budget has been reduced to an incredible 365.5 million euros. it is good that the health policy agreement adopted the revised commission proposal, including the budget, in november 2006. i believe that specific programmes for people, patients, such as screening for cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and many others, but also the necessary community cooperation between centres of expertise and the creation of a pan-european register of such diseases will not be jeopardised. i fully support the approach of rapporteur trakatellis and trust that parliament will again make a wise decision.
first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for his comprehensive and very high-quality report. i would like to mention some aspects that could contribute to the early completion of an efficient single energy market in the european union. i welcome the commission's efforts to achieve this objective through increasingly mature proposals on how to increase infrastructure investment in a non-discriminatory and transparent manner and ensure fair access to networks for many market participants. many discussions with relevant stakeholders on this subject both inside and outside parliament and the experience of some member states have led me to believe that 'ownership emboldening' with national independent operators is not the safest way to achieve these objectives. the ownership unbundling of the vertically integrated companies formally ensures the independence of the entities and the possibility for new players to access the energy networks. however, the question of the genuine interest of new investors in the geographically limited market space of national regulation, in particular in less developed regions, remains open. it is therefore difficult to assume with certainty that this step will actually bring about a strengthening of competition and a sufficient pressure on energy prices. the need to link national energy markets is likely to remain the same problem, as national interests will continue to prevail. i would therefore like to recommend that the commission should also take up other proposals which are more capable of addressing the situation in a more comprehensive way and which would be much more effective in completing the liberalisation of the single energy market.
mercury use is the subject of many measuring instruments, thermometers and barometers. the use of mercury is still used successfully and without major health consequences in the field of dentistry as part of amalgam fillings. on the other hand, it is known that mercury can also cause harm under certain circumstances and can accumulate in the body of living organisms, including humans. we all know that the council's common position covers most of the amendments which the european parliament has already adopted. it adopted them on 14 november 2006. this is also in line with the text, where there was almost complete agreement between the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs and we were close to closing the legislative process at first reading. the main difference between the council and parliament, however, is in the views on the manufacture of instruments using mercury, particularly barometers. as we know, parliament voted to accept a full derogation, whereas the council is proposing a temporary derogation of 2 years, which seems to be the right thing to do. the ban would affect new mercury barometers and it also seems to be balanced to consider those barometers already on the second-hand market as acceptable and could be resold, repaired and maintained. as a citizen and a consumer, i support the compromise advocated by the rapporteur, which does not endanger the general health of the population and allows manufacturers of traditional barometers to adapt as quickly as possible to the new situation.
i agree with those who would not like to live in a situation where labour law reflects exclusively the needs of competition. new economic trends undoubtedly bring with them the need for greater labour market flexibility combined with a higher share of atypical and non-standard employment contracts. the key question in this context is: who is to bear the new and increased risks of a more flexible labour market? the problem is not just greater protection of the outsiders, but without a new approach based on creating a win-win model, if the risks are borne by the individual or his family, the social losses will be disproportionately high. let us just remember the problems that the demographic crisis brings us. the search for a solution is difficult, and so far we have more questions than answers, both at european level and in the member states. however, the need for a new paradigm in labour law is emerging, but not only in a narrow sense. the concept of 'flexsecurity' was originally based on the idea that the individual can and should adapt to the new conditions of a flexible labour market, but the risks that this new situation brings should not be left to the individual but should be spread between him, the employer and society. the search for the right answers undoubtedly requires political courage. the courage to seek answers that are not only in the interests of competition, but also in the interests of a new balance of values.
employment growth is primarily a phenomenon of small and medium-sized enterprises and the craft sector. these employers are among the key actors in creating new jobs and increasing employment in europe. for this reason, taking into account the wide range of labour traditions, contracts and business models on the labour markets in the individual member states of the european union, the european parliament's priority task must be to develop european legislation that strengthens the position of smes in creating new jobs by improving labour law. practice shows that, for example, the european overtime directive, which is objected to by many eu member states, should not be transposed into labour law and needs to be changed. this is because the limitation of overtime is a threat to a number of economic sectors, whether healthcare, mining, social services or firefighting. in my country, slovakia, just this month our national parliament adopted a new labour code, which was met with negative reactions, especially from small and medium-sized enterprises. the current government wanted to promote the trade unionists beyond their competence. the fact is that, thanks to pressure from the opposition and the employers' unions, it was possible to change the original government proposal fundamentally and to strike a balance between the competences of trade unions and employers in the final draft. moreover, the amendments to the cfsp-ds have succeeded in changing the definition of dependent work so that it does not endanger the professional. thanks to more than 600 comments during the preparation and dozens more in parliament, it was possible to amend the original proposal from the smer sd workshop so as not to return slovak labour law to the last century. as the high unemployment rate in europe, especially in the new member states, is a failure calling for action, i welcome the approach of rapporteur jacques protasiewicz in a report which proposes a solution to meet the 21st century vision. however, i am concerned about its content after the vote in the committee on employment and social affairs, which i cannot support in the vote if the amendments tabled by the rapporteurs on behalf of our political group, the ppe-de, are not adopted. the draft report presents, in some parts, an outdated and unbalanced view of the current problems of european labour markets and therefore seeks to protect only workers. such an approach to employment policy could result in them losing their protection and becoming unemployed.
although the portuguese presidency has many tasks ahead of it, the most important of which is the organisation of an intergovernmental conference to discuss the draft constitutional treaty, i am pleased that the portuguese presidency will also be addressing other issues. these are mainly strategies in departments that are in the hands of nation states, such as health. this week, on 12 and 13 july, the minister for health is organising a round table on the theme of health strategies in europe, which i have the honour to attend. the meeting will address issues such as the differences between member states' health systems, health services legislation, the problem of the rise of cancer in the european union, or the mobility of patients and health workers. i appreciate the participation in this negotiation of the representatives of slovenia, which has long since announced that the fight against cancer will be one of the strong priorities of its presidency. mr. prime minister, i wish you every success.
we have just adopted a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 97/67/ec on the completion of the internal market for community postal services. the new directive brings many positive messages for the quality of services within the european union: accessibility and, not least, the loss of national operators' monopoly on shipments of up to 50 g. i myself was in favour of the monopoly being terminated in december 2010, two years later than the commission had proposed. the point is, and i agree with several members of the european parliament's responsible committee for transport and tourism, that some parts of the european union that need more time to ensure eu-wide delivery of parcels have an acceptable price. for the new member states, including slovakia, the liberalisation deadline is to be 31 december 2012, which is to ensure that the most appropriate way of providing the universal postal service is found. i believe that we have agreed on a balanced approach to the contentious issues of timing and funding, in the interests of citizens in all member states.
the liberalisation of postal services, which is already underway in the european union, means that the sector is being opened up to a wider range of stakeholders. i am convinced that the positive changes will also be felt by the ordinary citizen, as increased competition will bring better services and the development of innovative products for consumers, who will be able to choose from a variety of products and prices according to their own needs. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report by mr markus ferber, which is the last step taken by the european parliament in the fight against the monopoly of letter-delivery services of less than 50 g. it is true that change in the postal sector cannot be made overnight, which is why the european parliament has approached the preparation of the directive on the liberalisation of postal services with great sensitivity and responsibility, so that services in no corner of the eu are endangered. thanks to amendments tabled by members from the new member states, the new european twelve and the large island states will be able to continue to reserve these services to their providers, under certain conditions, until 31 december 2012, to the extent necessary to ensure the maintenance of universal services. the european parliament has also not forgotten disabled citizens in its report. amendment no 47 requires member states to ensure that free postal services are provided to blind and partially sighted persons.
i would like to emphasise that differences in inflation rates are largely the result not of faulty policies but rather of structural factors. the double pay mentioned for the new member states of the european union, the share of energy and raw material intensive production is higher in these countries than in the more advanced euro area countries. however, a significant part of this energy- and raw-material-intensive production is destined for the euro area. for these reasons, the new member states are more sensitive to movements in energy and raw material prices, but at the same time they create a buffer zone that cushions price impacts in euro area countries. however, inflationary pressures in the new member states may also stem from high economic growth, labour productivity growth and catch-up with more developed countries. but that's one of the goals of being in the european union. i therefore support the call for a review of the convergence criteria, in particular inflation, so that they do not become instruments for creating new barriers to divide europe.
last week i attended a meeting at the treasury in dublin. the irish economy is growing at an admirable rate: 6% on average over the last 10 years. gdp per capita is 40% higher than the eu average. unemployment is at 4,2% and in terms of unemployment rates they seem to be able to meet the lisbon target. but they have a problem with inflation, which is going to hit 5% this year. if ireland had not been part of the euro area, it would not have been able to join it under the current rules. i want to remind you that in high-growth economies, inflation is structurally higher. this is the situation of the single monetary union. inflation is part of a process of the new member states, in particular, aiming to approach the level of more advanced countries. the council and the commission should therefore undertake a new analysis and verify the convergence criteria. it is necessary to continue the policy debate on the application of these criteria to future new members of the euro area.
the international community faces a particularly responsible task. the future of kosovo, and the equal coexistence of the various communities in the region, must be determined. the eight-year process of stabilisation and search for the most favourable solution has culminated in a comprehensive proposal by mr ahtisaari which offers the possibility of a peaceful solution to the future status of kosovo. but for that, the whole union must be united. the delay in the solution could generate dangerous tensions and a state of war in the region, and that's not what anyone wants. we are fully aware that the verified sovereignty of kosovo with a permanent international presence can only begin after a final decision by the un security council. the refusal of serbia, stubbornly supported by the russian federation, must not discourage us. in this situation, it is always necessary to proceed from a rational assessment of the origin of this complex problem eight years ago, when, after bloody events, international forces took over the administration of this territory. this particular situation and the development of events prove that the integration of kosovo into serbia is not realistic. serbia has de facto lost its claim to this territory. despite the concerns of some european politicians and of the member states of the union, such as the slovak republic, where a state of schizophrenia has arisen in connection with the kosovo problem, i am convinced that this solution will not create a precedent in other countries. the initial condition was atypical and non-standard. a very important component of the stability of this region is the creation of a society of equal citizens so that there is a legal system for minority communities to preserve and develop their identity. and in the case of the serbian community, that means a lot of autonomy. it is imperative to speed up the decision-making process on the un's soil. only stability and peace in this region can secure the prospect of the balkans and serbia and kosovo respectively in the european community.
i voted in favour of the report by the rapporteur, mr dariusz rosati, on the 2007 annual report on the eurozone, which was tabled in the european parliament at a time when it is necessary to encourage other member states to continue their efforts to prepare for euro-area membership. malta and cyprus will be considered for slovakia's accession to the euro area in 2008. under the last slovak government of mikuláš dzurinda, slovakia was rated as one of the best prepared countries for the introduction of the euro among the then ten new member countries. learning from the failure of lithuania, whose entry failed only in the inflation parameter, but also encouraged by slovenia's entry into the euro area on 1 january 2007, i believe that slovakia will take a responsible stance to ensure the sustainability of the maastricht criteria. in view of the introduction of the single european currency in the new member states, i draw your attention once again to the written declaration on the introduction of the one and two euro banknotes, approved by the european parliament in october 2005. the absence of these banknotes has a negative impact on the perception of the higher nominal value of the cent by european citizens whose monthly salary, when converted into euros, will be only a few hundred euros in slovakia, for example.
mr kamiński's report is the result of reflections on what europe will be like in the future, whether we can build a europe based on christian principles. what does ukraine mean for the european union? in my view, ukraine is one of the european union's most important strategic partners, and it is therefore very good that the european parliament's helping hand is turning towards kiev through this report. only a european perspective can help ukraine to continue its reform policy. the report is the first official document to give ukraine, and in particular pro-european and pro-democratic forces, a positive and constructive signal to lead ukraine towards its euro-integration efforts three years after the orange revolution. i was very happy to vote in favour of the report and will in future, as a member of the european parliament's delegation for ukraine, be advocating its implementation in practice. the post-communist countries in particular, which have gone through a totalitarian past and know how difficult and thorny their path has been to meet all the conditions for their entry into the european family, stand in solidarity with ukraine and are the guarantors that the door to the european house will always remain open for ukraine.
in writing. i fully supported the report as proposed by the rapporteur and i particularly agree with the statement calling for serious action to address the major development gaps in the poorest regions of the eu, including many slovak regions, and stressing that they need special support for their ongoing institutional, administrative and economic difficulties. i recall that it is very important that the mistakes made in the old member states, and in 2004-2006 in the new ones, are not repeated, and i call on the commission to prepare a 'compendium' of best practices as well as of worst practices with a broad aspect of short case studies, which would, among other things, minimise the fact that in some regions community aid is misdirected. however, the best practice of member states, which should take advantage of the natural and cultural wealth of the poorest regions and turn them into attractive areas for investors, is also important, and innovative approaches can play an important role here.
in central europe, some thought that membership would solve all their problems before joining the union. that's not what happened. although the union was created to ensure peace in europe, i must point out the radicalisation of the situation in hungary. a few days ago, members of the so-called hungarian guard were sworn in. their leaders talk about common borders for all hungarians and their statutes about compulsory shooting training. they have the uniforms and the support of a former cabinet minister. slovak-hungarian relations have been deteriorating recently. a few months ago, the hungarian prime minister refused to meet with the slovak, and again there is talk of revising the results of world war ii. calls on the hungarian government to intervene against the paramilitary guard and to disband it. in slovakia, we have outlawed a similarly radical organization. nothing like this belongs in 21st century europe. it's in our mutual interest to reconcile and apologize to each other. last year in ostrog, the catholic bishops of slovakia and hungary set an example. this is what it looks like to reject extremism in practice.
panel houses in the v4 countries, bulgaria and romania were built 40 years ago and are in need of renovation. the receipt of support from the structural funds is prevented by the de minimis rule. under this condition, the state may not pay more than eur 200 000 (approximately czk 6,8 million) to a single beneficiary over a period of three years without the consent of the european commission. panel homes are managed by only a few entities, housing associations or managers. the average cost of renovating a panel house is 580 thousand sk, for one apartment about 17 thousand euros. it is in the interest of the new member states that the commission does not apply this de minimis rule in certain cases. at the end of june, the ministers of these countries agreed to set up an expert group to negotiate with the commission. its task will be to align legislation with the conditions for using eu funds to help renovate panel housing from the structural funds. panel houses are a major problem in the regeneration of cities in the new member states of the european union. as they are in a state of emergency, i would like to ask the european commission and you, my fellow members, to support this initiative.
first of all, i'd like to address the need for codification. within the european union, there is a myriad of legislation governing a wide range of social relations. this quantity causes them to be too complex and opaque. the european union's legislative acts are not just for lawyers, but also for ordinary citizens of the union. the problem arises here, which is related to the follow-up of these provisions to national legislative acts. when a citizen of the european union searches for a given regulation, he or she often has no idea that other legislative acts of the european union are also substantially related to it. i therefore propose to deal in greater detail with the question of codifying legislative provisions in order to improve their search and subsequent application in practice. secondly, i would like to focus on the introduction of amendments in the european parliament. i do not think it is appropriate to enrich the text of the commission's original proposal with often absurd proposals. whether those which do not have a substantial impact on the substance of the case, which are often linguistic amendments, or those which extend the scope of the future law to such an extent that there is a duplication of legislation, which causes confusion. the solution to a single problem should not be contained in several community acts for the sake of clarity. as a result, the european parliament often adopts a legislative proposal that is twice as large as the european commission's proposal, which is not in the interests of simplification or clarity. codification should be based on the principles of efficiency, effectiveness, accountability, transparency and relevance.
i would like to start by highlighting the own-initiative report by mr jacques toubon, which provides an excellent and balanced basis for the commission's forthcoming communication. although the four fundamental freedoms have already been guaranteed by the treaties of rome, there are still a number of obstacles to their application. the review of the current situation in the internal market is an opportunity to support existing rules and revise outdated ones. this new approach can bridge the gap between the potential and the actual situation and provide solutions to remove barriers between the markets of the 27 member states. i agree with the rapporteur that the success of the single market rests on three pillars, namely the improvement of the position of consumers and the creation of a business-friendly environment, which is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. a concrete example is the need to improve access to public procurement for smes. under the second pillar, we should remove the remaining barriers, such as those that hinder the construction of a single payment area. the third pillar is to strengthen the international dimension of the eu internal market by building a wider transatlantic internal market. the eu will only prosper in the global economy if it matches or even exceeds the innovation capacity of its trading partners, and therefore needs specific measures to increase innovation capacity. member states must create an enabling environment for active cooperation between business, the public sector and academia. the conversion of public and private investment into highly specialised research centres linked to universities can create the fertile ground for the entrepreneurial community of tomorrow.
the search for better regulation is of particular importance from the point of view of the regions, their role and their position in the legislative process as direct guarantors of the implementation and enforcement of european union law. bodies at different levels of government, economic and social partners, representatives of civil society or non-governmental organisations must be as far as possible actively involved in the consultation process in the preparation of european legislation. their role is equally important in preparing the impact assessments of this legislation on the member states. this will increase the quality, clarity and transparency of the legislative standards being drafted, taking into account local and regional conditions and differences. it also prevents misinterpretation and delayed transposition and enforcement of legal standards.
in the course of my mandate as an mep, i have encountered complaints from citizens that some member states, when transposing eu legislation, impose obligations on them that go beyond the requirements of the transposing legislation. citizens are plagued by unnecessary administrative burdens that evoke in them a resistance to the adoption of european legislation. i voted for the report on better regulation in the european union, which includes my amendments and is a great opportunity to approach european legislation from a new angle. european laws are designed to make life easier for people in the union, not against them, so they must be written in simple and understandable language with regard to quality rather than quantity. at the same time, effective and timely information to stakeholders at all levels on the transposition of eu legislation is a guarantee of increasing citizens' confidence in the european project.
i recently saw a tv report that captured young people from scandinavian countries going on a boat trip to estonia on a friday night, for example, buying large cans of vodka and getting drunk on the way back. however, excessive drinking in similar and other variations is seen in all countries of the european union. it is certain that measures to reduce alcohol consumption will have a positive impact on the health of the population, its social conditions, occupational and non-occupational accidents and traffic accidents. i would like to focus in particular on the health dangers of the excessive consumption of all kinds of alcoholic beverages. here, it is necessary to keep young people in mind that even regular consumption of beer leads to alcoholism, which is no less serious than the alcoholism of wine or spirits. it is shocking that people still recklessly underestimate the seriousness of liver disease, often leading to cirrhosis and, in some cases, death. regular drinking gradually alters not only the will and character of the individual, destroying his family life, but also alters his neuropsychiatric characteristics, often of a serious nature. the alcoholic youth's capacity for higher goals and ideals is lost, and his emotional life is so dull that he has difficulty forming healthy relationships and family relationships. fetal alcohol syndrome severely damages the mother, but especially the child, leading to mental retardation and neonatal malformations. it is surprising that in many member states so little attention is paid to information for pregnant mothers in this regard. finally, it is scandalous how many people drive a car or a motorcycle under the influence of alcohol. and here i would also advocate perhaps harmonisation across the eu, where there should be a zero tolerance for blood alcohol content in drivers.
in the context of the 'minireform' of milk under discussion, i would like to stress the need to adopt amendments nos 5 and 7 to the european directive on the common organisation of the market in milk at this plenary session. proposal 5 is to establish a single aid of eur 18,15/100 kg for all milk under the school milk scheme. there is no doubt that by increasing support and simplifying this scheme, we will contribute to the objectives of improving nutrition and combating obesity in young people. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiary. the objectives of the programme, such as raising awareness of human nutrition and boosting milk consumption, but also modernising milk production in, for example, mountain areas, are particularly encouraging for the new member states. in fact, in several of the new member states, the reduction in milk production and livestock numbers by up to 50% over the past years has been incredible. unfortunately, this has been accompanied by a corresponding decline in the consumption of milk below the doses recommended by doctors, especially in children. by approving these three reports, the european parliament can contribute to the balance of milk consumption and production in all the countries of the european union.
in my regular business trips to european airports, i have witnessed the unpleasant problems that accompany passengers carrying liquids in hand luggage. passengers must bid farewell to their cosmetics. fortunately, they can drink a pint of mineral water, but shaving water or shampoo that exceeds the permitted limit ends up in a sealed container. passengers see this interference with strict airport controls as an interference with their rights. they don't know why they have to do it, and they're angry at the union, at its bureaucratic rules. they use air travel for a different purpose and therefore do not understand why they have to say good-bye to basic hygiene needs. no one on staff has and does not want to devote their time to the need to justify strict controls for the sake of counter-terrorism prevention. i voted in favour of a motion for a resolution which proposes to repeal the controversial air passenger measure and supports the need for research studies to find effective means of detecting explosives in liquids. i trust that the european commission will thoroughly review the ban on carrying liquids on board aircraft and, in the absence of new findings, will repeal this controversial measure.
first of all, i too would like to thank my colleague, mrs valenciano, for drawing up a subject which, as the most important instrument of human rights, is very sensitive and, unfortunately, often secondary. i therefore support the view, echoed in this report, that more attention should be paid to the reforms carried out by the partner countries in the field of human rights and democracy. i think that the european union will have to continue to strive to build a more effective and coherent response in the field of international cooperation and dialogue with third countries. i appreciate the fact that the report advocates and promotes the systematic integration of the protection of women's and children's rights in all the european union's human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries. i am the rapporteur of the subcommittee on human rights and am preparing an opinion on the strategy on the rights of the child. in my report, i call for the continuing need to complement the individual guidelines on children in armed conflict and the need to take into account the paris commitments to protect children from unlawful military conscription or from their abuse by armed forces or armed groups. i would like to stress here the need for increased control of the funds that the european union provides, for example, in the framework of humanitarian aid, so that the money provided by the european union to provide education or health care for children is not used to purchase small arms and light weapons, which are also suitable for use by children, for example. the dialogue must not be limited to questions of democracy or the protection of civil and political rights, but also to questions which directly concern the european union, such as environmental or health protection issues. we need to set clear criteria for the start, interruption or termination of political dialogue and the objectives we want to achieve. to achieve this, it is necessary to engage in dialogue, and not to dictate unilaterally to third countries, but to seek constructive cooperation and cooperation with local human rights organisations and non-governmental organisations operating in the country concerned. it is necessary to commit the provision of money from the european union funds to respect human rights and to stop or suspend the provision of these funds to countries that will not respect human rights.
almost 500 million european consumers now have more choice between products and services, but they also have to make much more complex decisions than in the past. in view of the need to make consumer law more effective in the internal market, i welcome the commission's intention to review eight sectoral directives to respond to the challenges of technological progress, in particular to define precisely the rights and obligations in the online environment. confident and informed consumers are at the heart of the dynamics of the eu internal market. if consumers are sure of their rights, they will be just as confident buying in stores or online in their own country as in other eu countries. protection against dangerous products or unfair practices by traders, legal and commercial guarantees, and the possibility of returning goods are the most important aspects of consumer purchasing decisions. a set of uniform, common rules for the whole eu is therefore important for consumers and businesses alike. in order to have sufficient confidence in purchases outside their own member state and to benefit from the benefits of the internal market, consumers need to be sure that they have effective mechanisms to recover compensation when a mistake is made. consumer disputes require precisely tailored mechanisms that do not cause disproportionate costs and delays in relation to the value of the product or service complained of. consumers need accurate information to be able to defend their rights. they can use informal mechanisms such as solvit or the services of consumer organisations, which must be adequately staffed and financially equipped. i believe that the revision of the consumer acquis will be an opportunity to produce better legislation written in simple language that is easily understood by citizens. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my great pleasure at the participation of my group of visitors from the prešov and košice regions of slovakia, whom i warmly welcome to our european house, in this debate which is so important for european consumers.
in writing. since we did not debate the report by mr ouzky on international health regulations, let me at least say this about this issue. increased international trade, increased mobility within the eu increases the threat of international infectious disease epidemics in the eu, or their transmission from more distant continents to europe. the response to these epidemics in the form of defence must be uniform and coordinated if it is to be effective. today, the european union has the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) to combat these mass epidemics, and the member states are also members of the world health organization, which has issued international health regulations that also regulate the fight against diseases that can spread from one country to another. the commission has adopted a decision on an early warning and early response system for the prevention and control of communicable diseases. there are also several financial instruments available to the eu, such as the european solidarity fund, the health action programme and the new instrument for rapid response and preparedness in the event of major emergencies. at the same time, healthcare is in the hands of the member states under the principle of subsidiarity. with this complex system of numerous legislation at several levels, it will be difficult to respond quickly and uniformly in the event of an epidemic threat. at the same time, we need to link the eu and national systems more closely so that we do not end up with european legislation that does not correspond to the member states' readiness to respond quickly.
in writing. i would like to comment on the ouzké report - the international health regulations - which i supported in the vote. this legal instrument is desirable to ensure the prevention, protection and, in particular, control in the event of the spread of the disease, while ensuring that the public health sector's response is proportionate to the risks posed. this standard, first adopted by the member states of the world health organisation (1951), has since been improved four times. as it stands, it will allow for its gradual implementation starting in june 2007. this regulation contains a clear definition of the commission's interpretation of the eu position and also clarifies the role of the european union in the implementation of the international health regulations. in doing so, it takes into account the existence and role of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the early warning system for public health risks (ewrs). i welcome the adoption of this regulation, which will further contribute to protecting the health of our citizens.
maybe that's what i'm going to talk about today. former hungarian prime minister viktor orbán addressed the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament in 2002. he declared that the decrees of president benes were not in accordance with the law of the european union. the european commission has subsequently carried out an analysis of the problem. conclusion the european commission considers the issue of president benes' decrees to be resolved and closed. following the continuous efforts to open these decrees, the national council of the slovak republic last week passed a resolution on the inviolability of post-war documents. the resolution, which condemns the principle of collective guilt, was supported by both coalition and opposition mps. history cannot be reversed or changed. facts which occurred in exceptional circumstances must be seen in the context of the time in which they occurred. questioning and revising the post-war european order is not what most progressive and positive-minded europeans expect of us. our common goal is peace, cooperation and solving the problems of the people who live here today.
in august of this year, the extreme right wing hungarian guard association was formed in the republic of hungary. the garda aims to protect hungary from attacks by neighboring countries, but its officials declare that they will never give up the claim that all hungarians live in one state. the hungarian authorities did not question the activities of this nationalist association, but allowed its registration and thus made its activities illegal. the first public appearance of the association was also attended by a member of the hungarian parliament for fidesz. the creation of this association is causing concern and apprehension in the surrounding countries, especially in slovakia, romania and serbia. in view of the radicalisation of the positions of some hungarian political circles, the slovak parliament adopted a declaration on the inviolability of post-war documents governing the post-war settlement in central europe.
in writing. the current energy and climate change situation brings with it not only positive solutions but also hasty decisions that can ultimately have many negative consequences. i am also thinking of renewable energy sources, which are essentially new solutions to complement the dwindling traditional energy sources and reduce harmful emissions. on the other hand, we see and even agree with the rash and hasty implementation of these rules by setting excessive binding targets at all costs. it is no coincidence that the oecd study, as well as the warnings of many experts, shows that the unconsidered promotion of some renewable resources (such as biofuels, biomass and others) will cause irreparable damage in other areas, such as agriculture or water management, thus upsetting the overall natural balance in nature. it's reminiscent of the shooting of sparrows in china during the so-called cultural revolution. i don't mean that i'm against renewable energy. however, they must be used in those areas where they naturally occur and in capacities which allow their natural regenerative capacity to be used without the need to increase their artificial production in order to achieve the binding targets as quickly as possible. the current knowledge and technical solutions allow us, and will continue to allow us, to use renewable resources only as a supplement. let us therefore look for solutions which are more rational and more efficient in the medium term. nuclear energy is a good example.
toys are the most sensitive commodities affecting people's health from an early age. the news that the american toy manufacturer mattel was pulling millions of chinese toys off the market for high lead content and the discarding of small magnets, as a strong consumer advocate, deeply concerned me, but also encouraged me to legislate. the issue of magnetics, which i note is a new hazard risk that should also be urgently addressed in the toy safety directive, should be brought to the attention of the european parliament without further delay. the purpose of rapex needs to be clarified so that it is understood in the same way by all member states. the question is whether rapex has as its priority objective to inform about the risk of a particular dangerous product or whether its priority objective is to inform about the identified flows of dangerous products into the european single market, which is very time-consuming. practice shows that the ce conformity marking does not give sufficient assurance that the product is indeed safe. for toys, the situation is further complicated by the fact that the manufacturer is not required to issue a declaration of conformity. the ce marking is the only indicator for the supervisory authority that conformity, de facto safety, has been assessed. in the debate on whether it is desirable to encourage or abolish the further use of the ce marking, i support its maintenance under the condition of systematic monitoring of its validity, its marking by the supervisory authorities of the member states. i would point out that the consumer public is beginning to perceive this mark as a kind of technical passport for all products entering the single european market. in preparing the legislative package for the revision of the new approach directives known as the goods package, in which i am actively involved as one of the shadow rapporteurs for our epp-ed political group, there is still a need to discuss in depth the need to indicate additional brands on products, for example the already used k-markt quality mark, or new brands that would place too heavy a burden on entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and at the same time could be confusing for the final consumer. i believe that together we can create effective and efficient tools so that all children get only safe toys for christmas this year.
in writing. i congratulate mr nikolaos sifunakis on his well-drawn report. i voted in favour of the document presented. as rapporteur for the committee on culture and education on the proposal for a european qualifications framework for lifelong learning, i welcome this legislative initiative from the commission. i think it is important that in the effort we are making to emphasise education, training and also lifelong learning in the context of the lisbon objectives, there is also a feedback loop in response to this effort and specifically to the actions in the field of education in the european union. comparable statistics will introduce a viable system for the collection of statistical data for education and lifelong learning. we will have at our disposal statistical data of the highest possible significance, which will help us to focus attention on shortcomings or misstated objectives in the implementation of community education policies.
i strongly support the initiative to establish a european day against the death penalty, even if it is not a unanimous decision by 27 countries. i welcome the introduction of this ban, which has recently been introduced in some african countries, partly under pressure from the european union, as for example the recent abolition of the death penalty in rwanda and gabon. these states also came to realize that the death penalty has no place in a democratic society. i think we need to put pressure on other countries, like the us and china, to make this institute a part of history. on the other hand, it is also necessary to point out that some european countries have still not ratified the protocols prohibiting the execution of the death penalty. protocol no 6 to the european convention on human rights, which unconditionally prohibits the death penalty in peacetime, has been ratified by all 27 member states. however, although all 27 states have signed protocol 13, which prohibits the death penalty in all cases, there are still 5 states that have not ratified the protocol, namely: france, italy, poland, spain and latvia. so even though today the main criticism of the introduction of the european day against the death penalty has been directed at poland, with which i fully agree and which i support, as do mr schulz, mrs frassoni and mr morgantini, it is necessary to raise the bar for these countries too. i would like to emphasise that there is no evidence to confirm that the death penalty has a deterrent effect on the commission of violent crimes. its irreversibility means that judicial errors, which are unavoidable in any legal system, cannot be corrected.
the european union has extensive legislation on migration policy, we have the geneva conventions, the dublin convention, several regulations and a number of directives on the table. but we're looking at big problems in their application, and the large number of them leads to a lack of transparency in the whole system. moreover, the laws of the member states are often not properly applied, and the status of refugee and asylum seeker are often confused. for a brief moment, i will focus on the issue of unaccompanied children who cross the border of their country of origin and seek refuge in another country. after all, 5% of all asylum seekers are children. we have statistics on how many of these children have applied for asylum, but we don't know how many of them cross the border and never apply for asylum. we know how many were granted asylum, but we don't know what happens to those whose applications were rejected. at the same time, children must be assigned a legal representative upon arrival in the country to defend the best interests of the child, but we do not know what exactly is the definition of the best interests of the child. the legal representative of the child shall not be an inexperienced volunteer, student or legal person with a conflict of interest.
if we really want to catch up with the usa, japan and the rest of the world in science and technology, and if europe wants to set the tone, it is essential that we create the conditions for this. however, the centres of excellence must have all the conditions and prerequisites in place. the european institute of technology is a step in the right direction. it's a pity he hesitated so much about this decision. i trust that the lack of systemicity in the issue of adequate funding of the eit will be satisfactorily resolved. i also support the idea of co-financing on the principle of public private partnership, as is the case for example in research bases in the united states. i would like to see scientists and researchers from new countries selected and involved in scientific teams on an equal footing and the management board subject to scrutiny by the european parliament. the research objectives should copy the seventh framework programme for science and research, only research on embryonic stem cells should not be funded by taxpayers of those countries where such research is illegal.
energy security and energy are the axis around which the internal and external policies of each community revolve and are vital to the functioning of prosperity and, in critical shortages, to the survival of the species. it was too late yesterday to take such measures to get us out of raw material and later possible political dependence on russia. it is alarming that we allow energy to be used as a tool to exert political pressure on transit and destination countries. i support the development of the black sea dimension and cooperation with the countries of the south caucasus, as well as the strengthening and involvement of norway, the maghreb and mashreq countries and the so-called euro-mediterranean partnership. the predictability of the energy market needs to be secured by contracts with china, india, brazil and also by a partnership with the us government. black and white environmentalists should finally realise that burning 'green' fuels and biomass massively increases the build-up of co2 in the atmosphere and that a sensible, decisive share of nuclear energy is absolutely necessary. tragically, the influence of the fanatical greens, who have pushed the ban on nuclear energy into the constitution of a member country, has had an impact on the economy, even in neighbouring countries.
i voted for the gruber report. i welcome the development of the general framework directive and the directive on the conditions of entry for highly qualified workers, the directive on the entry and residence of seasonal workers and the directive on the conditions of entry and residence of paid trainees. it is becoming increasingly clear that the european union must set clear rules and actively regulate who is admitted to work in the union. we all know that europe is already experiencing a demographic winter and is in desperate need of labour from third countries. but it is absolutely vital that we only hire skilled workers and i also advocate that we also choose professions that are lacking in europe's labour market. we must be consistent here, otherwise, in flooding the european union with unskilled labour, we would be willingly and recklessly manufacturing problems arising from the promiscuous lifestyle of unemployed immigrants who subsequently commit crimes, engage in the black market, the illegal grey economy and are often involved in drug and human trafficking. they form ghettos, often resulting in members of terrorist groups.
the services directive, which is to be transposed into national law in all member states by 28 december 2009, will have a significant impact on the crossborder provision of services. neither this directive nor the green paper on the revision of the consumer acquis address the essential obligations of service providers, and i therefore welcome the report of the rapporteur, mr lehtinen, on this issue. the report seeks to ensure that not only consumers but also smes buying or selling cross-border services can benefit from added legal certainty, simplicity and cost reductions. i believe that european standardisation is the key to success for smes and craftsmen, and therefore i welcome the introduction of european standards at european union level as a means of promoting service safety and guaranteeing consumer rights in relation to cross-border services provided by member states. once consumers feel uncertain about the safety and quality of services, they tend to create psychological barriers to foreign suppliers that discourage them from using cross-border services. if a consumer has a negative experience, this is often unfairly reflected on all foreign service providers. consumers have the possibility to resolve problems arising mainly from the different procedures applied in the various member states in the network of european consumer centres (eccn) and the network for the out-of-court settlement of cross-border complaints in the financial services sector fin-net. if a consumer is well informed about his rights within the internal market but is unable to enforce them in another eu member state, solvit can help him. i appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, that this report also focuses on consumers, because they are the fundamental and important element of the internal market. our common objective must therefore be to create conditions for consumers to feel the same confidence when they buy in another country as when they buy at home.
madam president, rule 173 provides that the full minutes of each sitting shall be drawn up in the official languages. i would draw your attention to the fact that this debate on the exclusion of people with disabilities will not be translated into the official languages of the union. this 'tool' has simply been removed in practice, even though our rules of procedure provide for it. the reason for my motion for a resolution is very simple: the debate tonight has been widely requested by many students, parents' associations, educators and doctors in different countries. but our electors, if they do not know all the languages that will be used tonight, will never be able to learn what was said during this parliamentary debate, which is intended for the citizens.
author. let me begin with the testimony of a young woman, 21 years old, a third-year university student. when i was 17, my friends laughed at me for a year because i read like an 11-year-old. my professors often wrote in my evaluation when i finally decided to study. and we with the dyslexia work much harder than the others, it's a very hard fate. this is a quote. ten to 20 percent of children with dyslexia never make it to the public because they are never diagnosed. their difficulties make it difficult for them to communicate, block normal learning and, unfortunately, sometimes lead to psychological disorders and social exclusion for these children. as far as we are concerned, the european union can offer what it knows best, to be a spokesman and to highlight with sufficient force an issue that might otherwise remain taboo and hidden under a cover. europe offers the chance to discover good ideas and proven practices of organisations and governments, as set out in written declaration 64/2007, which is currently before the european parliament. there is already a 'neuro-dys' programme and in addition the european union is funding projects which can also be well adapted for those affected by 'dys' diseases. for example: competitiveness and innovation framework programme, information and communication technology policy support programme, support for research work in the field of information and communication technologies, seventh framework programme for cooperative research - health, lifelong learning programme, second programme for public health for the years 2008 to 2013. these programmes are also the subject of the amendments to the 2008 budget which we have tabled with colleagues from the five political groups. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by expressing my deep admiration, respect and gratitude to those who may have reason enough in their lives to be 'des mères désespérées'. and yet, none of them are shrugging, they're the best fighters alongside their children, along with their fathers, if they're still in the family. i hope that this debate tonight will show that they are no longer alone and that their problem will become a problem for the european parliament.
let me begin by thanking mrs buitenweg for her work on this report. at the same time, let me look at this issue from another angle. the increasing mobility of people forces us to be more open to those who come to our countries. but this opening begins with education in families. it's in the family where children first learn to respect each other. the family is the first community that should teach openness, respect and solidarity. education against racial and ethnic intolerance must become a visible pillar of all dimensions of education and training, whether in schools or in society at large. education must focus on the ethical foundations that strengthen the unity of the human family. for this reason, the question of interaction between cultures, as well as the question of peace and respect for diversity, have become political and security issues of the utmost importance today. the fight against racial discrimination focuses mainly on how we want to ensure coexistence between people and nations at the beginning of the new century and millennium. certain legislation is needed, of course, but our society should address racial and ethnic discrimination by honestly evaluating the past and collectively seeking a future for every human person where each is respected in their dignity and inalienable rights.
i am not a supporter of extreme feminism, nor do i think that democracy should be gender-blind, and i therefore welcome this own-initiative report by mrs kauppi, to whom i extend my warmest congratulations. the issue of harmonising career and family responsibilities is a very pressing one, and currently includes maternity, parental and paternity leave. given the changed conditions in a globalised world, we should also encourage member states at the level of the european parliament to modernise these systems. following the initiative of young families, it might be useful for member states to consider introducing the payment of benefits at the rate of 100% of income for a maternity leave period of at least 12 months and at least 50% of income for a parental leave period of at least 24 months when mothers or fathers are fully devoted to their child. maternity and parental leave is still formulated in the language of the law as leave, despite the fact that not only mothers but also psychologists, doctors, sociologists and many other experts agree with parents that maternity and parental leave is not a leave at all. i think it's time to start using the language of motherhood and parenting, and to call maternity leave in more appropriate terms. after the end of the active working life, it is necessary to facilitate the unhindered return of mothers and fathers to the labour market and the continuation of their professional careers. i consider it important to emphasise the need for educational measures during parental leave to cope with the changed demands of employment, while strengthening key skills such as entrepreneurship, scientific and technological approach. the structural funds could also be used in the regions for this purpose. i believe that our society needs to value motherhood and parenting much more. parents have a tremendous responsibility in shaping society, and the way they raise their children is how europe will be. at the same time, such measures would certainly enable more women to pursue more demanding careers, such as scientific careers, in addition to raising children.
i would like to congratulate mrs kauppi on this very good report, which is the result of the close cooperation of all the members of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. the rapporteur has very well underlined the importance of implementing gender equality policies in the lisbon strategy. one of the objectives of the lisbon agenda is to increase the number of women in work, in employment. at the same time, we are not able to formally recognize women's informal work that is not financially valued. we know women who work to ensure solidarity between generations, who are involved as volunteers and who create acceptable conditions for social relations. however, this informal work is not valued. we don't want to officially recognize it because we don't see any money circulating behind it. to me, this logic is a form of discrimination against women. i believe it could be a real political project for our friend commissioner spidl to recognize the informal and undervalued work of women. it would also solve many of the minority problems that we were talking about a moment ago. to make progress on this issue, we have, in europe and in the world, individuals and institutions who offer us mathematical and statistical models and their political application. one of them is the oft-cited gary becker, nobel prize winner in economics. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have taken the liberty of pointing out the real problem of equality between men and women.
thank you for speaking and thank you, mrs descamps, for your report which takes the digitisation of libraries in the european union a step further. i voted in favour of the provisional document because the process of digitising the library, film and audio and video archives, which is under way in all member states, is slow and fragmented. i believe that attention should be focused on coordinating these national initiatives, and in particular on the preservation of digital material. at european level, considerable attention needs to be paid to the preservation of digital copies. the creation of a digital copy of a book or film does not necessarily guarantee its long-term preservation. all digital material, whether a digitised work or original digital material, should be maintained in such a way that it is always accessible. i mean, we have little experience with digital storage. digitisation alone, without a robust copy retention strategy, can lead to a loss of value of the investments made.
no one in the union should be discriminated against on grounds of his or her origin or religion. the situation in some countries of the union shows that discrimination is still a frequent phenomenon. there is a well-known example from the past of discrimination and gradual assimilation of the slovak-speaking population in hungary, by establishments of various political colors - fascist, communist, socialist and right-wing, when out of the number of 500 thousand slovak-speaking citizens from the 1920s, only 37 thousand remained. on the other hand, citizens who emigrate to the countries of the european union should not create new ethnic settlements, but should integrate fully and adopt the principles of freedom and democracy of the host country. a british colleague recently reminded me of a situation in britain where a group of citizens publicly proclaimed the slogan of a peaceful assembly with the words on their t-shirts, and i quote, "not britain, but muslims", end of quote. the transposition of a european directive into the legislation of the member states must meet the highest possible standards and it is right that member states have obligations to inform about the existence of anti-discrimination legislation, but some citizens are still unaware of it and have low legal awareness in this area.
first of all, i would like to express my support for the report by mr lamassoure and mr severin. we must face the reality that the number of meps for the slovak republic will be reduced by one under the agreed principle of degressive proportionality. when we talk about the proportional distribution of mep seats, this proportionality should also be transferred to the whole of the european union's employment policy. i therefore call for the number of representatives and staff from the new twelve to be increased in all the institutions of the european union. i think each member state has enough qualified people to be of benefit to the eu. one of the principles of the european union is equality. the old member states also committed themselves to respecting this equality when they accepted us. it should apply in all areas and not just to the position of mep or commissioner. i demand that this equality be respected and upheld. we had to meet many criteria when we joined the european union, and now i am asking the european union to fulfil its obligations towards the new twelve.
following up on the european parliament's statement of 21 june on the meda programme and financial support for palestine and the evaluation report of 12 july 2007 on the middle east, and in full knowledge of the quartet's statement of 23 september of that year, it is important that we, as the european parliament, want to make a clear statement on the situation in palestine. but we have to look at it from at least two perspectives, the humanitarian-economic and the political-security perspectives. on the humanitarian and economic level, it is up to europe, which has approved enormous financial resources for palestine, to make this support and humanitarian aid technically feasible. it is not acceptable that the ordinary people of palestine should not have access to medicine, that health facilities, schools and homes should be destroyed. access to safe water and food is often impeded by blockades to the movement of people and goods. on the political and security front, it must be made clear that just as the international community recognises the right of palestinian autonomy to exist, so too must palestine, including the ruling hamas movement, recognise the state of israel. hamas has so far done nothing to deviate from its own charter, which states that one of its goals is to "destroy the state of israel". this is a political problem that is escalating in the form of armed conflict, terrorism on the one hand and harsh retaliation on the other.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer ignore the reality of femicide in central america. in many parts of the world, women are making a vital contribution to the increasingly humane structures of society. women, with their feminine intuition, enrich our understanding of the world. they help to make human relations between people more honest and genuine. it is time to condemn and severely punish all forms of violence against women, not only in central america but also in several european countries. in this respect, the participation of women in the management of material assistance and assistance to victims of such violence could be of fundamental importance. ladies and gentlemen, if the member states of the union can bring their experience to bear in solving problems, we should not keep our know-how. i therefore remain convinced that bilateral cooperation between the member states and the central american states can be effective. i am here to testify to honestly sensitive work within the committee on women's rights. i thank the rapporteur, mr romeva, for his political sense and cooperation. we have tabled amendments by common accord. if these amendments are adopted, we can look forward to work that can improve the situation of women and thus of society as a whole in central america.
in writing. the committee on women's rights and gender equality launched its campaign to eliminate violence against women on 8 march 2007, the international women's day in the ep. as part of the strategy to eradicate violence against women on a global scale, this report also deals with the murder of women in mexico and central american countries. especially in these countries, the number of violent deaths has increased dramatically in recent years. according to official mexican figures, 6,000 girls and women were murdered between 1999 and 2006. alarming statistics in this area are particularly evident in countries characterized by deep economic inequalities in society and, in particular, by the financial dependence of women on men, such as guatemala, el salvador, honduras, the third poorest country in latin america, and nicaragua. the murders of women in ciudad juárez and guatemala are a cause for alarm, and i welcome today's debate. i believe that only by analysing these issues in detail before the eu-lac summit scheduled for 2008 in lima can we draw up a balance sheet of the measures taken, including the experiences of the mexican authorities, which will help to combat violence against women effectively within the european union as well as in latin america. i believe that we must make every effort to protect women from all forms of violence.
madam president, allow me to table an oral amendment by the ppe group to amendment no 6. add at the end of recital r 'but not definitive because it has been the subject of an appeal'.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by the rapporteur, anne e. jensen, on airport and ground handling capacity towards a more efficient policy, because i consider it very important in terms of ensuring the sustainable development of european regions. transport infrastructure is often a decisive factor for the location of investments in regions, for the development of tourism and for the rapid transport of goods. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. globalisation and rapid economic growth are driving up demand for flights in the eu. the current and future development of air transport in europe urgently requires the anticipation of the necessary steps to be taken at eu level for the benefit of its citizens and at the same time the economy as a whole. i am convinced that the image of all european regions can be improved by building new airports, modernising existing ones, including the transformation of former military airports into civilian ones. the construction and expansion of airport and logistics infrastructure requires appropriate assistance from national and regional authorities. the airport must appear in the regional development plans, be included in the development strategy, be subject to a feasibility study in relation to the area concerned, with a thorough environmental impact assessment. in particular, the financing of the airport infrastructure from state and regional resources, with the necessary financial assistance provided by the trans-european transport network, the cohesion fund and the european regional development fund, is of particular importance.
let me highlight the fifth edition of the european week of regions and cities, which took place in brussels from 8 to 11 october 2007. this event has created a unique space for regions and cities from across the eu to exchange practical experience and learn about innovation in regional development. it was also an opportunity for us members to meet regional politicians at interesting events. i would like to thank the committee of the regions, the european commission's directorate-general for regional policy and the european parliament's committee on regional development for organising it. thank you for your speech to our chairman hans gert pöttering, who added some seriousness to this event. only dynamic european regions with strong human potential working together in regional clusters, bold and committed regional politicians and well-prepared projects aimed at innovation and job creation will be able to survive in a globalised world.
the italian authorities have informed the member states of the european union through the european early warning system of an outbreak of tropical chikungunya virus in the province of emilia-romagna. they've recorded 197 cases of the disease from this tropical virus. laboratory confirmations were reported in 14% of the patients. the virus claimed one victim. there is no room for panic yet, but the european commission needs to re-establish the steps to prepare for a possible larger epidemic. the european centre for the prevention and control of infectious diseases points out that climatic conditions are suitable for the virus to persist, especially in the mediterranean. there is a high risk of transmission of the virus to other european countries. infected persons may start new transmission cycles in other areas of the union.
this weekend, the hungarian guard was again one of the main topics in slovakia and hungary. the aim of all people of good will is to work for peace and reconciliation among all nations. given the current governments in hungary and the slovak republic, democracy needs a strong christian-democratic opposition. but we will not win if we give in to feelings and emotions. i call on the hungarian government to respect the peace treaty with hungary, which was negotiated in paris on february 10, 1947. in it hungary undertakes not to tolerate in the future the existence and activities on its territory of political, military and paramilitary organisations of a fascist character which develop revisionist propaganda. i see nothing better that can be done for peace and mutual understanding between our peoples.
the reporter. the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides, as a non-legislative policy document accompanying the directive, responds to the continuing risk in the use of pesticides. today's residue levels in food are above the acceptable limits. 44% of the fruit is contaminated with pesticides, of which 5,5% is the maximum residue level. an increased level of residues was also found in fruit sold directly on the premises of the european parliament. the aim of my report is to minimise the health and environmental hazards and risks arising from their use. first of all, i want to emphasize that pesticide use is associated with malignant tumors and immunological and other neurotoxic disorders. it was therefore surprising to me, unfortunately in a negative sense, that the commission only marginally mentioned in its text the health risks arising from the use of pesticides, especially from their cumulative effect. the most at-risk group are pregnant women, children and fetuses. i'm all for plant protection, but i'm all for protecting people's health first. it is necessary to point out the link with climate change. global warming will result in an increase in pests, and therefore it is not possible to increase the amount of pesticides used indefinitely. the most important part of the process is the national action plans of each member state, which must set individual targets for reducing hazards. i consider the commission's proposal, which rejects quantitative reduction criteria, to be insufficient and the wording 'reduction of hazards, risks and dependence on pesticides' to be vague, failing to push member states towards real reductions. the thematic strategy as a general document does not deal with the detailed method of calculating the quantity, but in the directive i propose, together with other colleagues, a procedure: for the most dangerous substances, which are carcinogenic and mutagenic in certain large quantities, a reduction of 50%; for biological and low-risk pesticides, a reduction is not currently necessary and for the others a so-called frequency index will be applied. the specific features and conditions of each member state shall be taken into account. it should be stressed that even the quantitative indicators in the national action plans do not mean that the reduction in pesticide use is the same in each country. they will take account of the specific geographical and agricultural conditions of each country. true, an automatic reduction in quantity may not necessarily reduce the danger. in many cases, yes. the thematic strategy, like the directive, must cover both plant protection products and biocides. it is necessary to extend the protection of the aquatic environment against pesticide pollution by establishing adequately wide buffer zones along watercourses. i support a ban on aerial spraying of pesticides. it should be noted that under certain conditions, where there is no more appropriate alternative, an exemption may be granted. aerial spraying shall include the provision of appropriate public information on the time, place and substance of the spray. the strategy is not directed against farmers. i think all these measures can be done without drastic cuts in farmers' budgets. the danish experience shows this. we all need to realise that it is important for farmers to be competitive and that their products are not replaced by those of farmers in third countries. in conclusion, let me comment on the amendments tabled. i cannot agree with amendment no 4, which seeks to change the name of the entire thematic strategy. although i am, of course, in favour of the use of pesticides being careful, i think we should leave the official title of the whole document - it is still the official title in the official journal, which i think is appropriate. i would also like to comment on amendments nos 3 and 5, which refer to residential zones. amendment no 3 proposes to add the term 'urban', which i believe means 'suburban area', thus excluding those in rural areas. the term 'residential area' is both vague and indefinable. i also propose that point 8 be revised linguistically, because the term 'practitioner' is a bad translation, and even in french it is like 'médecin'. i'm done and thank you. first of all, allow me, mr president, to conclude by thanking all those who have collaborated on this report.
however, i also find the requirements of all three reports for highly qualified people at all stages of handling the movement of pesticides to be particularly valuable. action plans, integrated management, import rigour are also very positive examples of all the reports. but the wording of the aircraft ban and at the same time the aircraft options require clear, i assume, notification dictations. similarly, the intentions behind the quantified restrictions are not clear and open up many risks by being applied indiscriminately. for example, in the slovak republic, on average less than 1 kg of pesticides are applied per hectare, while in other countries it is up to 8 kg. so there are countries where we really need to reduce, and there are countries where we even need to increase consumption. i therefore propose that the recommendation of the european plant protection association be taken into account in the vote, or that reports 347 and 359 be rejected at first reading and that the commission's balanced proposals be retained.
in writing. like human medicines, pesticides are rightly called plant medicines to combat diseases, pests, and weeds. of course, they must be used according to the rules. when misused, they lead to failure in the form of oncological diseases. ladies and gentlemen, we must maintain a scientifically based approach to this important subject and not succumb unnecessarily to the pesticide hysteria unleashed in the ep. europe's food self-sufficiency is declining, leading to an increasing dependence of the agri-food industry on the supply of world markets. we must be aware that food shortages would cause food prices to rise. i consider that some of the amendments tabled by the envi committee to the marketing regulation and the directive on the sustainable use of plant protection products are not applicable after my consultation with the experts. these new elements take us away from the principle of scientifically based legislation that was targeted and proportionate. i am aware that we need to harmonise european legislation on pesticides, which must result in safe food. but we must not prevent farmers from using the tools they need to meet their needs for safe, nutritious and affordable food. i cannot support the reports by mrs klaß and mrs breyer as approved by the envi committee. i shall vote for the report only if the amendments tabled by our epp-ed group are adopted.
let me thank the rapporteur, mr reul, for his really excellent report. this report presents the state of play of conventional energy sources and technologies, while also comprehensively highlighting the many aspects of their continued use, both in terms of securing energy supplies and the need to continually increase emissions. given the world's ever-increasing energy demand, the european union cannot afford to completely eliminate fossil fuels, which, despite their rapid depletion, account for a significant share of total energy production. despite the fact that the european union on average has a relatively high efficiency in the production of energy from these conventional sources, there are still many reservations in some member states in introducing and promoting new more efficient technologies and developing new more efficient cooperative units. similarly, member states should not unnecessarily impede new investment in the exploitation of fossil resources by using the most advanced technologies available. the other area i would like to highlight is nuclear energy, which, as we know, practically emits no co2 and which, i am sure, will sooner or later find its way into the member states, which have so far rejected it for ideological rather than pragmatic reasons. the continuous development of new technologies such as fourth generation reactors, including in russia, mrs harms, provides the conditions for further improving the safety of their operation and for managing the safe storage of spent fuel. in conclusion, let me express my appreciation for the commission's work in making a tangible shift towards a more open and objective view and assessment of the benefits of nuclear energy, which has also resulted in initiatives such as the european nuclear forum, whose first meeting will take place in bratislava in november this year, as already mentioned here. europe has long needed such a platform for permanent discussion, which would contribute to the exchange of knowledge, information and opinions. these will be useful to both the professional and lay public, and i assume also to the green party.
at last week's meeting of heads of state or government, a treaty was agreed which should adapt the institutions of the european union to the new situation and improve the existing treaties. today, when the shape of the european union is diametrically different from that of 1957, it is necessary to adopt a new european document, new clear rules of the game, and i fully support this process. if the european union is to be credible, it must guarantee its citizens human rights and fundamental freedoms. these values are mentioned many times in the preamble and in the articles of the treaty and it is on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality that the union is founded. i am very sorry that, although we are committed in article 3 of the new treaty to strictly observing the principles of the un charter concerning the protection of human rights, we reject the inclusion of the european charter of fundamental rights as part of the treaty. i am deliberately generalizing this negative act, because my aim is not to point the finger at individual member states which refuse to comment on this important issue. i therefore express my disagreement with the omission of the charter of fundamental rights from the treaty. the charter nevertheless reaffirms those human rights which derive from the constitutional traditions common to all the member states. i believe that members of the european parliament currently play a very important role in the treaty reform process as advocates of the views of european citizens and should be a catalyst for reaching agreement, especially in areas such as human rights. mr socrates, mr barroso, i congratulate you on your work.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, i would like to thank mr virrankoski and mr itälä for a splendid, yet thankless, job. i believe it is important to underline not only the role of parliament as the institution with oversight over the budget, but also the role of each individual committee in regard to aspects of the budget directly under their sphere of competencies. i think it is very healthy that individual dgs report to the various committees on their expected expenses for a given year. there has to be a level of control and there has to be transparency. although the committee on international trade does not have a codecision in trade matters – yet – i think it is a very good practice that has developed in which we have a frank and open discussion with dg trade on budgetary matters and why certain expenses are needed. in terms of budgetary lines, i want to emphasise the need to maintain both aid for trade as well as the parliamentary dimension of wto as important aspects of a trade budget. we need to be able to promote european goods in third countries. we need to have experts who help our companies to enter foreign markets but, at the same time, we need to help developing countries export to the eu. without trade there is no long-term sustainable development. the wto has been criticised recently for its lack of transparency. the parliamentary dimension of world trade talks is an important initiative we should continue to support because it improves dialogue, gives greater legitimacy and allows for greater oversight. on a final note, i urge the commission to make sure that parliament is informed in due course of any projects of microfinancial assistance so that a proper debate can be held in the relevant committees, and that we as an institution are well aware of beneficiary countries spending eu money.
if we wanted to express the level of confidence in the centrally funded activities of the european union by the share of expenditure budget appropriations in gross national product, then the budgetary confidence curve would represent a falling sheet curve. that's really a warning. the share of budget appropriations in gross national product has been falling to 1% for several years. however, in the 2008 draft budget it literally fell to 0,95%. however, the volume of budgetary appropriations, and in particular payment appropriations, continues to fall below the ceiling for payments under the multiannual financial framework. in particular, the proposed under-utilisation of payment appropriations of more than eur 10 billion appears to be a significant departure from the objectives of the long-term financial framework. i am surprised that the council has proposed a reduction of over eur 1 billion in payments for programmes which are considered as priorities under the lisbon strategy to improve european competitiveness and cohesion. i therefore agree with the view that the budget's spending parameters are insufficient in view of the political challenges facing the european union. i therefore support the proposal to increase the volume of payments to 0.99% of gross national product.
first of all, i'd like to thank both reporters. i thank mr itälä for more than eight months of cooperation on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2008. the budget of the institution9 has increased by almost 18% over the last four years, mainly as a result of enlargement. this budget will not grow in the future at the same rate as it has been growing up to now. if we want to improve the efficiency of the institutions, we also need to strengthen their cooperation with each other. i'm glad the concerns about the risks of such a partnership have not been confirmed. our efforts have been directed towards ensuring that, on the one hand, all the tasks that citizens expect from the institutions are fulfilled and, on the other hand, that the funds are also used efficiently. in the area of the european parliament's budget, it is most important that we focus now and in the future on our main mission and priority: to improve legislation. things that are not related to that, we have to push out of the budget as much as possible. we're on the best way to do that. as we said in march, colleagues, you need to be better informed about all the resources and materials available to you in order to carry out your work responsibly and effectively. we therefore ask the administration to create a knowledge management system that will enable members to work efficiently with all documents. ladies and gentlemen, you want to show your constituents that you're spending their money wisely. however, sometimes you may not have documents available in the main languages either. extraordinary committee meetings are held where new resources are needed. we need to improve flexibility in this area. a large part of the institutions' funding is related to expenditure on buildings, and this area must therefore be given great attention now and in the future. in the past, in various cases, european institutions have bought or rented assets at prices above market prices. we want all the links between buying, renting and renovation to be better examined in the future. our aim is to reduce costs and ensure the necessary flexibility. we want to avoid cartels and monopoly situations. our second priority is to make the citizens of the european union better informed. we have therefore decided to strengthen this area for the benefit of regional and local media. ladies and gentlemen, we want to continuously improve the efficiency of all our institutions. we need to get reports of a higher informative value from their activities. these reports should clearly indicate the success or failure of the objectives. i appreciate the way the budget is drawn up in those institutions which do not draw up the budget by means of inflation coefficients but on the basis of real needs. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that, after difficult negotiations, we have managed to find good compromises that will ensure better use of the funds of the community's citizens.
thank you, commissioner, for your qualified reply and congratulations to the italian authorities on their exacting approach. in this case, it seems a little strange to me that there is still no vaccine against chikungunya, even though some estimates put the number of infected in africa at about one million. i understand that maybe in the case of avian flu, because we don't have an isolated virus that can be transmitted from person to person yet, so we can't develop a vaccine. but it seems that we have a virus that can be detected by serological and other methods, and that we could, at this stage, perhaps, develop a serum or a vaccine that would be effective against the chikungunya virus if it were to spread, or perhaps we should consider a worse infection, which is dengue fever.
rapporteur of the committee on culture and education, requested for an opinion. i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, rapporteur mantovani, for his work on the report on the european qualifications framework. we have been working on this issue in the european parliament since spring 2006. as we know, the mandate for the european qualifications framework is firmly anchored in the lisbon strategy. by acting as a bridge between the different qualification systems and their levels, its implementation will lead to greater transparency, comparability and transfer of citizens' qualifications across member states. in addition, the edf will help organisations representing sectoral interests to better link their sectoral qualification systems with national qualification systems, which will contribute to increasing the mobility of both staff and students. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, i support the principle of voluntary application of the european qualifications framework in the member states and the establishment of national qualifications systems in accordance with national legislation and practice. however, only if the european qualifications framework is consistently implemented in the member states of the european union within lifelong learning systems will it become an effective means of recognising and transferring qualifications on a european scale. due to its direct link with citizens' participation in the labour market and its impact on the quality of vocational education and training, it is justified to consider it as a relevant instrument also in terms of its contribution to competitiveness.
excuse me, mr. president, but this is very important. the vote on the corbett report now allows for a return to normalcy. all the discussions at the meeting are and will be translated into all the languages. now we should also make provision for effective implementation and, as we are voting on the budget tomorrow, i suggest that you prepare the amendments for the budget, so that we can ... (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. cross-border mobility in the eu labour market has become a necessity and an everyday reality since enlargement to the eu-27. these new changes bring with them demands for more innovative and flexible education that will prepare europeans for their integration into a modern labour market where education is a prerequisite for all age groups and all strata of society. i voted in favour of the maria mantovani report on the proposal for a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council on the creation of a european qualifications framework for lifelong learning, because i am convinced that this is the only way to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the structure of the european qualifications framework consists of eight vertical levels, the so-called reference levels, linked by three horizontal areas of knowledge, skills and competences, in such a way as to enable individuals to better fit into the labour market on the basis of the results of their studies. the successful implementation of the european qualifications framework requires a high level of cooperation between the member states and the social partners, based on mutual trust. in a europe where the nature of the labour market is changing and the need for flexible access to education is emerging, member states should use the edf to improve the standing of lifelong learning programmes. in addition, it is important that employers and european citizens alike understand the practical value of qualifications, thus allowing them to move more freely and, above all, without barriers across the european union.
i am in favour of a reasonable compromise to achieve a balance between health and environmental protection on the one hand and agricultural production on the other. that is why i voted in favour of the report by my slovak colleague, irena belohorska, a recognised expert in the prevention and treatment of cancer. i congratulate her on her report, which, drawing on her rich experience in medical practice, presents a balanced strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides. i hope that this report will also lead to more effective measures to improve information for the general public, ensure the correct application and gradually reduce the use of pesticides in agriculture. the solution may be to support farmers to use less artificial fertilisers to combat diseases and pests and weeds on their farms, thus helping a smooth transition to organic products. the report can inspire consumers to go beyond the most beautiful fruits in the market or supermarket to choose less attractive but healthier organic products for their health.
the report on the future co2 strategy for cars, which has just been voted on, is undoubtedly one of the most controversial debates currently taking place in the european parliament. at stake is not only the state of the environment, and thus the health of eu citizens, but also the competitiveness of one of the important industrial sectors. i supported the amendment which is a compromise between the two aspects of protecting the environment and at the same time offering appropriate and realistic conditions for the european automotive industry. car advertising accounts for up to 20% of the total advertising turnover of print media publishers. the introduction of statutory rules on advertising under the original report by chris davies would violate the fundamental principle of freedom of expression, which is why i voted in favour of the amendments which delete the disputed paragraphs 36 to 41 from the report. i supported the ppe-de proposal to include a voluntary code of conduct for car manufacturers on advertising. after the majority of these amendments were adopted, i voted in favour of the chris davies report in the final vote. the outcome of the vote is a clear political signal for the development of european legislation on co2 reduction.
i admire and admire the determination with which some countries have introduced smoking bans not only in offices, offices, workplaces in general, but also in restaurants, pubs, bars and clubs. there are economic impact studies that have not confirmed restaurant owners' concerns about lower incomes. on the other hand, we know that the treatment of respiratory cancer and other diseases costs us up to 50 million euros. in scotland, the percentage of admissions to hospital for myocardial infarction has decreased by as much as 20% since the introduction of the smoking ban. both smokers and passive smokers' pregnant babies are born prematurely and have reduced birth weight. i call on the member states of the european union, including my own, to introduce urgently effective laws to ban smoking in workplaces and restaurants and to take effective measures to reduce tobacco consumption as such.
i voted against the report because it does not take account of the european union's clear position on turkey. the accession negotiations with turkey must be stopped altogether. the reasons for this are numerous. turkey is an unreliable partner now. by rejecting them, in other words, by telling the truth to turkey as a future member country, we would be helping them to finally democratize their society. turkey continues to occupy a member state of the european union. it has, in fact, occupied 40% of the territory of cyprus. turkey is a country of religious intolerance. non-muslims, christians, and orthodox and protestant catholics are persecuted because they cannot build their churches. five hundred orthodox churches have been destroyed, while muslims in the european union are building mosques everywhere. turkey doesn't have freedom of speech. it doesn't recognize the massacre of one-third of the armenians of the past. he's going to launch another military intervention in iraq. he is not addressing the kurdish minority in his territory. turkey is not in europe and it is not part of the eu. it is quite sufficient to cultivate a so-called privileged partnership with them, but not full membership.
in writing. i did not vote for the european parliament resolution on eu-turkey relations, because the enlargement of the european union and the accession of turkey to the community is a more serious matter, requiring deeper knowledge and more intensive discussion. i believe that the same rules should apply to every country in the accession process. the amendments calling for the recognition of the armenian genocide and an apology to armenia and the armenian people were not passed in parliament's plenary, as only such recognition and apology can be the impetus for the process of reconciliation between turkey and armenia. at the same time, turkey continues to impede progress in finding a solution to the cyprus problem. cross-border military action against the kurds living on the border with iraq, authorised by a declaration of the turkish parliament, will not lead to a constructive solution to the problem of terrorism in the country. it will only destabilize the entire region. at the same time, there is no progress on the issue of freedom of religion in the territory of the republic of turkey. the security and respect for the rights of christians living in turkey are not guaranteed, as we have recently witnessed violent attacks against christian priests, missionaries, publishers or converts. turkey has also not yet reopened a seminary for the orthodox church, without which the very survival of this ancient church is threatened.
opium production has to be controlled. the entire international community must be much more concerned about controlling opium production anywhere in the world. the efforts to date by the un and its economic and social council (ecosoc) and the world health organisation to guide the use of opiates for the treatment of pain are necessary but still insufficient. at the same time, the international community must not tolerate the unrestrained use and abuse of opiates by drug addicts. i think it's our duty to not give up the fight against the abuse of hard drugs that definitely destroy the life of the user. and i'm not in favor of a society that supplies drug addicts with drugs instead of trying to reeducate them and get them back to real life. what's the cappat report about? there is a view that the international community is suffering from a shortage of opiates, or could suffer such a shortage in the near future, and that it is therefore necessary to buy this drug from afghanistan under certain conditions. opiates are, of course, needed to treat various medical conditions, to relieve pain in the postoperative period, and not least to treat patients with malignant diseases. this view has several shortcomings in principle which cannot be ignored in the current situation. first of all, it's the current political situation in afghanistan, which is unstable. there is the need to fight the taliban on the one hand and the black opium economy on the other, which is decisively controlling not only the afghan economy but also politics and foreign relations. i have strong doubts and concerns, and i'll tell you right now why i think it can't work that way. eligible cultivation schemes for opium poppy production will also not work for the reason that the international narcotics control board can only sanction the country additionally, but the country will be leaking part of the crop to the black market. international demand is steady. the afghan government is not capable of acting as the sole custodian of the opium plantations. under such circumstances, it is clear that the government is losing the battle against traffickers. competition will drive up opium prices and farmers from legally planted areas will move to the black market side. moreover, afghan prices, and this is very important, are not competitive with prices in australia, where a kilo of morphine costs 56 us dollars, in india 159, in turkey 250, but in afghanistan up to 450 us dollars a kilo. as regards medicinal uses, the processing of afghan opium into medicinal products would only serve to further overcrowd the market in this area. and i'm about to finish, madam president. i will be against the eu and its member countries supporting poppy cultivation in afghanistan for at least four reasons: insufficient infrastructure, not being economically competitive, huge expansion in the wrong direction and finally, there is currently no shortage of opiates on the world market.
the 17th of november is coming, which is as symbolic for the czech and slovak people as the fall of the berlin wall was for germany. 18 years ago, a barbaric totalitarian regime fell on our soil. our people returned to europe. so, thanks to the fall of communism, november 17th is a vivid anniversary, a symbol of something to remember. a united europe is not only about defeating nazism. it also stands for the defeat of communism. just as europe was threatened by our failure to deal with nazism and its criminals, so europe is threatened by our failure to deal with the crimes of communism. let me remind you of the message of john paul ii, whose words 'do not be afraid!' were a great support for the slovak dissident. let me remind you of president reagan, whose words about the evil empire made him our president, even though we didn't vote for him. communism has defeated the courage of men and women, injustice has given way to right. freedom is a great gift. i am pleased to be able to say this as a member of the european parliament.
let me thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs cizelj, for her excellent and stimulating report. the unfavourable global energy situation, the european union's high dependence on imported energy sources and the increase in greenhouse gas emissions mean that, despite many ideological opponents, nuclear energy is receiving more attention in the eu and is already an integral part of the energy mix of many european countries. in this context, the euratom supply agency has to face these challenges in order to provide its customers with comprehensive and efficient services with a high degree of flexibility and equal availability. let me briefly touch on three aspects that are very important to the fulfilment of the mission of this agency. first of all, it's her homework. here i fully agree with the rapporteur that the role of the supply agency should be better and more specifically defined in order to be in line with the provisions of the treaty and to take account of the objectives of the common policy on the security of supply of nuclear materials in the renewable energy context. secondly, it is the agency's own organisation. the new statutes of the agency proposed by the commission appear, at first sight, to be sufficiently effective, both in terms of the organisational structure, for example the reduction of the members of the advisory committee, and in terms of the budget. however, taking into account the overall mission of the agency, it should also maintain a high level of competence in monitoring evaluations, drafting recommendations and carrying out specific market studies. however, this means having highly qualified industry experts with extensive experience of market functioning and fuel cycle operations. in the area of interinstitutional relations, the european parliament should be a regular recipient of important evaluation reports concerning the agency, which would also increase the transparency of its activities and financial flows. third, it is the transparency of the funding of the agency. despite the fact that the agency was established under the euratom treaty, with legal personality and a significant degree of financial autonomy, its link to the commission's structures creates a complex and poorly transparent financial mechanism that provides only limited access to financial information.
before i go on to the actual text of the framework directive on soil protection, it is necessary to consider whether legislative action by the european union is necessary in this area. the decision of the legal affairs committee, which clearly rejected the need for legislation on soil protection in the european union on the grounds that soil has no cross-border impact and is a regional issue, should be taken into account. although the other committees giving opinions were in favour of the european union adopting legislation on the matter, some parts of the committee were hesitant. for example, article 5 of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development clearly states that soil degradation has local and, where appropriate, regional causes and consequences and that it is therefore necessary to adopt transnational but not european measures, which seems to me to be a bit in contradiction with the rest of the text, which is clearly in favour of adopting the framework directive. similar wording is also found in the thematic strategy of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in article 2. on the other hand, it must be recognised that the degradation of land as a non-renewable resource has serious consequences for other areas where legislation exists, such as water quality, food safety, climate change and so on. as both sides have a certain amount of truth about the need for a framework directive, i think that in the end the european union's framework directive will be adopted - yes or no - it will be a political decision. i would also like to comment on the question of changing the negative character of the report to a positive one. for example, to change the terminology from a threat area to a priority area. i think that areas where it is urgent to stop the degradation should be given an alarming name, risky soil should be negatively marked to emphasise that the situation is very serious.
i believe that the newly joined countries, including the slovak republic, are sufficiently well prepared to join the schengen area. the slovak republic fulfils the individual criteria in the areas of schengen cooperation and thus fulfilled the basic conditions for the abolition of all checks at internal and land borders for slovak citizens in december 2007 and at air borders in march 2008. the slovak republic has implemented the schengen acquis relating to the schengen information system as of 1 september 2007 and police information flows into the information system from both sides. a network of common contact points for the exchange of information from police information systems has been established. border surveillance and border checks are currently in line with the requirements of the schengen borders code. the shortcomings in the area of personal data protection and bratislava airport have been addressed. there is therefore no reason why, after 3.5 years of slovakia's membership in the european union, citizens of the slovak republic should not finally acquire the right that they are entitled to under the treaty on the european community, namely the right to freedom of movement. i firmly believe that our citizens will soon receive from the european union another right that is theirs, namely the right to work without restrictions in the countries of the european union, and that the european union will no longer give preference to immigrants from third countries and that preference will be given to citizens of the european union from the eastern part of europe.
mr. president, i'm sorry to interrupt, but i've been informed that the english translation says czech republic instead of slovak republic. i would very much like our interpreters to get used to the fact that czechoslovakia has been divided into two sovereign states, and therefore in my speech i spoke in the full context of the slovak republic's compliance with the conditions.
i would also like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the portuguese presidency for its initiative in launching the solution with the sis one 4 all proposal, which has enabled the accession of 9 new member states to the schengen area. the historic significance of this step for the citizens of these countries is undeniable, it is the fulfillment of the principle of free movement of people, but it is also a historic step towards the reunification of europe. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, carlos coelho, for his very good cooperation and for his excellent handling of this issue. thanks also go to commissioner frattini for his commitment and help in meeting the schengen criteria. the author of the report has often stressed that access to the schengen area is a matter of mutual trust, and i think that this discussion is also about that in principle. there is no doubt that border security is not only a technical issue but also a matter of mutual trust. the reverse is also true. more technically secure systems would undoubtedly contribute to the reliance of individual countries on the member states securing the external borders of the union. it is therefore appropriate to ask why and for how long the delay in the sis ii, which will create a new level of security and facilitate cooperation in this area between countries, whether police or judicial cooperation, will continue. the extension of the replacement solutions is only an expensive and not a full substitute for the absence of sis ii. i also want to support the amendment in fulfilling the schengen criteria so that parliament is informed after six months of the assessment of the situation in the member states. the situation should not be repeated where the council has been unwilling to provide parliament with information which is, however, necessary for its decision.
the creation of the schengen area, characterised by the abolition of checks at the common borders between all the participating states and the establishment of genuine freedom of movement within the european union, can quite rightly be considered one of the greatest achievements of the european union. the citizens of the countries that will join the schengen area in december this year will see our decision as a decision for the people, a decision that fulfils the essence of freedom of movement. however, the decision to extend the schengen area also includes a legitimate obligation to introduce some compensatory measures, including the introduction of effective checks at the external borders, the strengthening of cooperation between administrative, police, customs and judicial authorities, a common visa policy and the creation of a schengen information system. the slovak government has handled the preparatory phase very well, according to all assessments, and i am honoured to be able to declare today on the floor of the european parliament that the slovak republic is fully prepared to enter the schengen area.
it is important that the union, as it prepares for the euromed ministerial conference on 18 and 19 november 2007, take note of the fact that the euromed parliamentary assembly is a unique venue where both members of the european parliament from the european union countries and members of national parliaments from the southern mediterranean, including israel and palestine, are represented. i am very pleased to be able to develop the activities of the euromed political section, which i see as key in the context of the barcelona process. the theme of this euromedu meeting could not have been better chosen. after all, the migration problem has many pressing challenges, whether it is a development problem, where it is necessary to tell migrants about the possibilities of microcredit and other types of loans, the dimension of legal migration to the countries of the european union, but also the pressing problem of illegal migration, which is so urgent to solve. it is good that the eu is deepening its relations with many mediterranean countries, which are making political efforts and transformational steps that have already led to the signing of association agreements. the part concerning illegal migration must deal with the difficult situation created by the influx of thousands of unwelcome migrants, who are seriously worsening the security situation in malta, italy and other member states of the european union. my country has also experienced an influx of legal and illegal migrants, and i am in favour of the european union allowing the influx of qualified migrants, who, as commissioner frattini said, in agriculture, tourism, health care would be a benefit to the european union, so that they are already qualified if we agree to their admission, but those who are not qualified should be fundamentally rejected, and i believe that the blue card system will also effectively solve this problem.
in a situation where the phenomenon of globalisation is becoming more and more evident, the european union must react very promptly and ask itself whether europe's competitiveness is not only maintained but is growing. whether the lisbon strategy, the instrument that is supposed to ensure this, is capable of providing solutions, particularly in the areas of innovation, energy, migration, education and demography. all of this must correspond to growth and the ability to create jobs. new environmental challenges are emerging, including co2 emissions, pesticide use, concern for the cleanliness of drinking water supplies and sources, and the protection of soil and the groundwater. last but not least, there are the health challenges, the epidemic, but also the fight against obesity, cardiovascular disease and the rising incidence of all cancers. ladies and gentlemen, globalisation also brings with it challenges in security, migration and the growing dangers of crime and terrorism. soon we will witness the fall of the last remnants of the iron curtain and the division of europe with the entry of 9 new member countries into the schengen area. we must do everything to ensure that this common space is well guarded against the infiltration of illegal migrants who further worsen the security situation in the member states. on the other hand, i call for a responsible approach to work permits for legal migrants let's do it thoughtfully, let's choose skilled workers and let's go to sectors where it is vitally needed. at the same time, i believe that the older member states, and the commission could take note of this, the older member states of the european union will remove the senseless restrictions on the employment of citizens from the new member states of the european union. in today's situation, it's an incomprehensible anachronism.
thank you, mr president. over the past three years, the european neighbourhood policy has proved to be a very important tool for increasing cooperation with the states concerned and for enhancing the stability and security of our community. we are also bound by the neighbourhood policy, especially if the fragile system that has been built up in a country is threatened. i would like to draw your attention to the situation in georgia, where the jointly built democracy, the rule of law and the dynamic economic development are under threat. mass demonstrations and riots have made the situation uncertain. i am convinced that the background to this situation is largely the disruptive intent of the russian great power policy. the greatest attention should be paid to consolidating the democratic institutional system. after the declaration of the state of emergency and the excessive repression against the protesters, the early presidential election was a step in the right direction. the eu's committed partner is georgia under the leadership of mr saakashvili, which, despite a number of problems, is making significant progress in reforms and economic growth. the eu, and the commission, council and parliament, in cooperation with the osce, have an interest in resolving the tension by peaceful means. we need all the support we can get. the eu's 'soft power' approach is also illustrated by the situation in georgia, where president saakashvili, under the influence of the west, diverted the agitated process back into the democratic field. it is in the light of events in georgia that i consider it of the utmost importance to review regularly the effectiveness of the neighbourhood policy. georgian power is being tested. in any case, dialogue with the divided opposition, which cannot be excluded from this process, is inevitable. despite our support, tbilisi will have to prove in the january elections how solid the country's democratic system is.
rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, consulted for an opinion. monitoring the social situation and social policies in the member states is undoubtedly necessary to identify the problems and challenges facing the union, but even more important are the actions we take to address them. from a public health perspective, we should draw attention to the problems faced by the union's citizens in the provision of healthcare services. as a result of demographic trends and increasing life expectancy, we need to develop public health strategies that contribute to improving the quality of life of europeans, focusing mainly on disease prevention and effective control. at the same time, they should take into account the need for quality, accessible and reliable health care for all sections of the population, regardless of their social status, age or country of residence. particular attention should be paid to the most disadvantaged groups, such as the physically or mentally disabled, the elderly or children. in view of the ever-increasing health costs, member states should take effective measures such as targeted information campaigns, the use of generic medicines, the use of new technologies, mutual assistance measures at local level or greater solidarity between generations and families. member states, in cooperation with the commission, should further develop policies and support european initiatives in the field of combating smoking, alcoholism or obesity, which will definitely help to improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens. finally, and not least, we should focus on the correct application of the legislation already in place in areas related to public health. member states, together with the commission, should ensure compliance with european legislation on water, air and soil quality, noise reduction, as well as the application of the reach chemicals and products regulation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you very much, madam president, commissioner, colleagues. mrs lynne's report, for which i warmly congratulate her, clearly does not and cannot have the last word on the question of social inclusion, the transformation of social policy. we often tend to think that the european social model is timeless, but it is clear that not only globalisation, but also the economy, social expectations, demographic challenges, and changing values, require social policy to change, as we need to find appropriate responses to the challenges we face. the commission's initiative to draw up a sort of inventory of the social problems affecting the population of europe is therefore welcome. it is clear that the almost 500 million citizens of the union are not a homogeneous mass. despite the reduction in income disparities between the old member states, the gaps between rich and poor regions are still increasing. two thirds of the population of the 10 new eu member states live in poor regions where income levels are half or less of the average of the old member states. the situation is even worse in bulgaria and romania, where the average income is less than one third of the per capita income of the old member countries. there can be no question that to combat poverty, we need to know more about the different forms of poverty. however, this requires new poverty indicators, as only the relative risk of poverty has been comprehensively studied so far. we therefore await with great interest the commission's communication on this subject. the report also highlights new risks of impoverishment. for example, we know little about the dangerous scale of the debt burden on the population. in 12 of the 15 old member states, the debt per head of the population is over eur 16 000, which is 90% of the average annual income of households. allow me one last sentence, madam president. the report again highlights the importance of tackling child poverty, and we consider this extremely important.
a year ago, the deadline for the enlargement of the schengen area was threatened with being pushed back to 2009. i am glad that we have all mobilised our forces and found a constructive solution to make the free movement of persons without passport controls a reality. i therefore welcome the report by carlos coelho confirming the entry of nine new member states into the schengen area. i regard the free movement of persons without passport controls as a major achievement of european integration and was therefore happy to vote in favour of this report. the accession of new member states, including slovakia, to the schengen area is a clear signal to european citizens that the iron curtain, which was erected by the communist totalitarian regimes between western and eastern europe, will be a thing of the past after 21 december 2007. the vote on this report is a historic event for me, as it takes place in the week when, on 17 november, slovakia and the czech republic commemorate the 18th anniversary of the fall of the totalitarian regime that prevented citizens from travelling in europe. i hope this christmas present will please all european citizens.
like the drafters of the resolution, let me also express my appreciation and thanks to the portuguese government for submitting a proposal for a temporary technical solution to the schengen information system one 4 all, which will allow the new member states to join the schengen information system as early as 2007 before the commission introduces the new schengen information system ii. thanks also go to the new member states entering the schengen area for their efforts to meet all the schengen requirements in such a short time. the enlargement of the schengen area beyond 21 december 2007 by a further nine is also a well-deserved result of our parliamentary activities aimed at respecting the original deadline, which we undertook on the european parliament's soil. that is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
i am in favour of deepening relations with ukraine and support further structured dialogue with our immediate eastern neighbour. ukraine has shown great determination towards democratic change in the last elections. it has decided to continue with a coalition that is clearly pro-european, modern and progressive. moreover, ukraine, and this should be recognized, is a huge country with interesting economic potential and also a serious partner in economic relations. it is time to conclude an economic cooperation agreement with ukraine, a free trade area. we have to reflect the fact that ukraine is joining the world trade organization. i definitely want to support the provision of reliable energy transit systems between ukraine and the eu. i am a strong advocate not only of cooperation in agriculture and the environment, but i would like to put the greatest emphasis on cooperation in science and education, as well as on strengthening the knowledge economy.
ukraine is a strategically important neighbour of the european union and forms a natural bridge linking the european union with russia and central asia. it is a great country that started its journey towards democracy with the orange revolution and has become a key partner of the european union in the neighbourhood policy. we must work with ukraine better than we have done so far and do everything we can to support ukraine's accession to the wto diplomatically and politically. negotiations on a free trade area should start as soon as possible in order to conclude an ambitious agreement in a short time. we are all aware of the complexity of the situation in ukraine, which is a very young and fragile democracy. today, this country is faced with a strategic decision for russia or for the european union? the balanced, high-quality report by rapporteur zbigniew zaleski therefore comes at a time when ukraine needs to be given a clear european perspective. i welcome this report and have voted in favour of it. i believe that after the early parliamentary elections, we will be able to form a government that will bring ukraine even closer to our common european home.
i welcome the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights of the union as a document that will make these already existing rights visible to the citizens of the european union. at the same time, however, i would like to call for clarification of possible conflicts of interest between the charter of fundamental rights of the union, which is a document of the european union, and the convention on human rights, which is a document of the council of europe, to which the european union also commits itself. this also raises the possibility of a conflict of interest between the european court of justice in luxembourg and the european court of human rights in strasbourg. will the luxembourg court's correlation with the strasbourg court be on a par with the supreme court the constitutional court? is such a solution acceptable to the european court of justice? will the european union, which will become a legal entity, have an independent judge in the european court of human rights? i would like to point out the need to address this legal issue in order to avoid problems, because i foresee an increase in litigation in the field of human rights with the charter of fundamental rights becoming legally binding.
mr. prime minister, you have given respect to this parliament, i give respect to you and through you to spain. the future of europe is a strong role for the european parliament. in the context of the adoption of legislation, the codecision system is extended to 68 areas. it is energy, climate change, structural funds, cooperation in criminal law, intellectual property, etc. the european parliament becomes a co-legislator in 95% of european legislation. this means that parliament will be deciding on twice as many pieces of legislation as it does today. in addition, the european parliament will elect the president of the european commission, who will have to report to the european parliament after each of his meetings in the european council. in 2009, the european parliament will thus be the strongest parliament since its first sitting in 1968. it will be an equal partner to the other european institutions. it will therefore be our duty to increase voter turnout in this strong body in 2009. in the last european parliament elections, the voter turnout was the lowest ever. only 47% of the voters participated, whereas slovakia, which i represent here, had only 11%. we have a lot of work to do.
in writing. tourism (hereinafter referred to as 'tr') with a view to sustainable integrated regional and local development has a significant impact on the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the eu27. it also plays an important role in increasing employment in less developed european regions, thus contributing to the reduction of regional disparities. while it is not possible to develop a single comprehensive approach to r&d at eu level, we must not allow europe to lose its market share in this sector. the commission, together with the member states and regional authorities, should encourage and financially support new forms of tourism such as ecotourism, agro-tourism, social and health tourism. i see it as one of the tools to ensure the sustainable development of regions, with an emphasis on the protection of the natural and cultural heritage and its preservation for future generations. the cr must be better accompanied by information campaigns. smes, in particular those starting an economic activity in the framework of the cohesion fund, offering new cohesion fund products or developing economic activities in new locations or tourist areas, need to have better access to information on how they can benefit from the available european structural funds funding programmes. at the same time, i stress the need to exchange experiences gained from tourism projects already implemented, to learn from the bad practices of failed projects and to avoid similar mistakes in other european regions.
in writing. guns are not common products. they pose a major danger, especially to children and young people who are exposed to the growing culture of gun use via the internet. there's been a lot of negative things happening in europe lately, where the main actors have been young people using guns. i am glad that the events in finland, in antwerp, belgium, have not left us idle. i am aware that banning weapons would increase the illegal trade, and this issue requires a very sensitive political approach. the united nations protocols were the starting point for this directive. before ratification, it was necessary to transpose their commitments into european law. i voted in favour of the report because it provides a viable compromise that prevents the illegal sale of weapons while respecting the legitimate interests of legal holders of sporting weapons and hunters. the directive will lead to better labelling of weapons, while recognising that each member state has its own tradition and culture of using weapons. the directive prohibits the use of weapons by minors under the age of 18. the young people will be able to pursue their sporting hobby only under the supervision of their coaches and parents. i believe that, thanks to the responsible work of the ep's committee on the internal market and consumer protection, europe will have a modern gun legislation. partial harmonisation of rules across the union will not only eliminate the illicit trade, but will also ensure that dangerous weapons that threaten innocent people gradually disappear from our streets.
in writing. given the possibilities offered by new technologies to the tourism industry, more and more tourists are bypassing intermediaries and travel agencies and booking tourism services, in particular transport and accommodation, electronically. there are often cases where consumers are disappointed when they do not receive the services for which they have paid in advance. i recently received information about practices at the viktoria garden suites hotel in strasbourg where slovak tourists were moved from a three-star to a two-star hotel and treated as third-class citizens. the difference between the services paid for and the services actually performed, although entitled to it, was not reimbursed by the hotel. the development of the use of information technologies in the field of travel services requires a framework to ensure consumer and personal data protection in the case of electronic booking. it is important that consumers receive information that is true and not misleading, up-to-date and unambiguous. in the interest of consumer protection, the issuing of certificates for websites providing information and offering services of an electronic nature in the field of travel, booking and payment would help. nothing is worse for tourism than the dissatisfaction of european consumers, which is why i fully support the report on the renewed eu policy on tourism: for a stronger partnership in european tourism, as proposed by rapporteur costa, and i particularly agree with its focus on consumer protection.
mr president, citizens from eastern europe often experienced fear of border controls during totalitarian regimes, and therefore membership of the union is closely linked for many of them to the fall of border controls. euroregions have made a significant contribution to overcoming border barriers by facilitating cooperation in border areas through their activities. it was these crossborder groups that encouraged us in the european parliament to put pressure on those concerned to meet the original deadline for the enlargement of the schengen area. i am happy that the expectations that were instilled in us have been fulfilled and at midnight on 20 and 21 december the last remnants of the iron curtain will fall and borderless euroregions will become a reality. the accession of the slovak republic to the schengen area and the opening of the borders with the czech republic, poland, hungary and austria will create a new area for direct cooperation. i hope that all euroregional associations, border towns and cities will join the tatra euroregion's call and celebrate the greatest achievement of european integration by removing the borders that have divided people in the past on 21 december at the border crossings.
mr president, on 19 november this year, the a6 motorway, connecting the capital cities of bratislava and vienna, was inaugurated. i consider this a historic event which will greatly simplify the road link between the slovak republic and austria. after three years of intensive construction and slovakia's near entry into the schengen area, contacts between these countries are certain to intensify. i would like to thank the austrian side, which, in cooperation with the slovak side, brought this project to a successful conclusion. the opening of the a6 motorway is the first practical connection of slovakia to the trans-european transport corridors, thus relieving other, already quite burdened, transport hubs.
mr. president, the constitutional court of the slovak republic ruled at its hearing on 4 december 2007 that the law on abortion, which allows abortions up to 12 weeks without giving a reason, again without giving a reason, is not contrary to the constitution of the slovak republic. the constitution of the slovak republic, among other things, says that human life is worthy of protection even before birth. this day, unfortunately, will be written in the history of slovakia with the blood of children who will not have a chance to be born and live. i am very sorry that most of the constitutional judges were not able to find the courage to enforce the higher principle of the protection of life. justifying abortion of unborn children by so-called human rights or women's rights, which have nothing to do with human nature and dignity, is reprehensible and deplorable.
mr. chairman, i want to talk about the minority radio broadcasting in slovakia, which is currently on the verge of extinction. slovak public broadcasting is obliged by law to broadcast in the languages of national minorities. last week, however, the radio directorate decided to cancel the medium-wave broadcasts of radio pátria in minority languages due to lack of funds, which would mean the end of broadcasts in hungarian, russian and ukrainian. since the slovak parliament did not allocate funds for medium-wave broadcasting when it approved the budget for the next year, broadcasting in minority languages will virtually end on 1 january, a tradition that has lasted for 80 years in slovakia. the decision is to broadcast over the internet, with an estimated one percent of listeners owning a computer that listens to the radio broadcast in the background. there are alternatives...
mr president, accurate population data and reliable information on housing in the european union are now a prerequisite for a proper assessment of all areas of european policies, as well as for the formulation of operational objectives and progress in individual member states. in particular, i would like to stress the need for the reliability and quality of these data, given that they are essential for many important purposes. i can mention, for example, the qualified majority voting process in the council or the allocation of resources from the structural funds for the development of less prosperous regions. and these are just two examples, of many, where the accuracy of the population data is relevant. i consider it important that this area be regulated in a uniform manner. in order to be comparable, the data provided by individual member states must be comparable at european and often regional level. as a member of the committee on regional development, i would like to stress the importance of the humanity classification units in this respect. only a clear european framework, namely european legislation on population, housing and dwelling censuses, can reliably ensure the quality and comparability of this kind of information. i agree that legislation must be oriented mainly towards results and not towards inputs, thus ensuring reliably the need for comparability of statistical data, which often results in lower quality. member states should therefore be free to choose the best ways and methods of carrying out the census, while maintaining and respecting certain binding standards and quality requirements. it goes without saying that the topics covered and the periods and deadlines for carrying out the aggregation must be the same for all countries. only in this way will the transparency, reliability and comparability of the census results, which are an important factor in the achievement of many objectives, be ensured.
i ask, is the reform really about good wine? good wine is wine that's sold. this means that the customer accepts its quality at the price offered. however, some european union countries produce unsold wine, costing taxpayers €500 million a year. the slovak republic, but also other member states, have been uncompromising in reducing their wine sector and therefore no longer produce unsellable wines. it is against market principles that national financial support packages are now based on the so-called historical principle. it's discriminatory for us to be punished like this permanently for not having financed the production of unsellable wine. the reform proposal provides for a permanent reduction of several times the amount of support for producers of unsold wines. we therefore insist on financial support directed exclusively at the measurement of the vineyards. for the same discriminatory reasons, we also oppose the change in the labelling of wines and insist on the labelling as it is.
the european union is a wine producer of global importance. it has gained a dominant position on the world market by producing quality wine. however, as a result of globalisation, european wine production is threatened by imports of cheap wines from the usa, south america, south africa, australia and new zealand. cheaper third world wines are a delight to european consumers, but a cause for concern to european producers. european winemaking will be in a difficult position to succeed in a fully open market due to higher costs, which is why we need to reform the wine sector. the union has a budget of €1.3 billion a year for the wine sector. we must use these funds for positive measures to promote the quality and attractiveness of our wines, for development and research in this area. grape-growing in slovakia during its long history was, and still is, a tough business. traders are pushing prices, so slovak winemakers are unable to pay the growers adequate prices for the grapes. there is a concern that grape growers could easily succumb to subsidies for the destruction of vineyards in the struggle for survival. the vineyards would be in danger of being planted where surpluses are not produced. it is politically unacceptable to restrict the use of cork to the south of europe, where surpluses are produced and removed by subsidised distillation, as well as to stop the production of cork in northern europe. in slovakia, the czech republic, but also in germany and austria, the tradition of making a dish has a long history. let me commend the rapporteur, mr castiglione, for taking a balanced approach to an emotional subject such as wine. the rapporteur has managed to negotiate a viable compromise that takes account of the various aspects of the european wine sector. in particular, it seeks to reconcile the interests of southern and northern producers. only a good reform of the wine sector can preserve the best traditions of wine production in the eu, strengthen the social network and increase the attractiveness of rural areas, while protecting the environment. i am sure that visitors to the various wine regions of europe will appreciate the chance to taste the special wines produced in the local vineyards.
the innovative medicines initiative is a unique initiative launched by the european commission and the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations, with a total budget of €2 billion until 2013. that is why i voted in favour of this report. i am convinced that such a private-public partnership will have a very positive impact on the faster distribution of better and safer medicines to citizens. i am pleased that the innovative medicines initiative will allow for better research and therefore better medicines to treat neglected diseases. secondly, as a member of the sme association, i am delighted with this first public-private partnership, which involves funding cooperation between smes, universities, research centres, academia and companies that are members of the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations (efpia). this type of financing will ultimately facilitate access to the resources required and thus create favourable conditions for the european union's research sector and thus its competitiveness. the president took the floor. )
mr president, distinguished members of parliament, distinguished guests. many common policies financed with the european union budget are not good. they do not promote the pro-efficient development of the european union's production structures or the enhancement of their competitiveness. the agricultural sector, which accounts for almost 40% of eu funding, is typical in this respect. in other developments, the european union's common agricultural policy has proved to be very inflexible and rigid. it has historically been distorted by compromises based on gradual concessions, especially to large member countries. the reforms to date have more or less preserved an inefficient redistribution of resources. we continue to see 80% of european resources being used by 20% of companies concentrated in the old member states, creating unequal and discriminatory conditions for the new member states. it is contrary to fundamental market principles for national financial packages to be based on the so-called historical principle, as envisaged in the reform of the wine market. the common agricultural policy of the european union must ensure that the instruments operate in the same way and that the same participation is possible in the common budget of the european union and in the budgets of the member states. it is said that budgets are a reflection or mirror of the economic policies intended. the european budget in the field of agricultural policy, i note, through no fault of its own, is unfortunately a crooked mirror.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to recap a little bit about the other section. we have made significant progress on the european parliament's budget. some of them, anyway. first, we found a compromise in looking at the global budget level. secondly, in the area of informing the citizens of the european union about the work and benefits of the european parliament, we will have the tools to better cooperate and communicate with citizens. it is important to stress here that it is not enough for us, as the european parliament, to make progress in information and communication policy alone. efficiency also means involving the commission and the european houses in the individual countries. the procedure should be coordinated, the results evaluated regularly. the end result will not only be better information but also greater transparency and better use of resources. thirdly, i want to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for supporting our efforts to create a knowledge management system. it will enable you to better address your legislative tasks in the future. fourth, we have been able to increase the flexibility for visitor groups. fifth, i believe that measures to promote language services will also lead to better quality of service on the one hand and better use of resources on the other. sixth, we've reached agreement on some environmental issues and the hiring of handicapped people. the budget for the other sections requires that each institution be assessed individually. the court of auditors is a good example of budgetary planning. this entity has achieved savings on some budget lines by drawing up its budget on the basis of real costs and not using inflation-based indices. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all the teams from the commission, the council and the european parliament. i had the best feeling from our meetings, negotiations and conciliation proceedings. when you feel that everyone is interested in reaching an agreement, it is a very positive factor, and only good can come of it.
thank you very much, mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen. i believe that a common decision is essential to combat extremism, which has become very widespread in recent times. i consider this debate to be symbolic, especially today, as the presidents of the european parliament, the european commission and the european council have confirmed by their signatures the legal commitment of the european union to the charter of fundamental human rights. we cannot allow individuals, or extremist organizations, to attack citizens whose rights must be guaranteed in a decent society. the history of europe has shown the forms in which extremism, militant nationalism and ideological radicalism can take. it is our duty to monitor closely and to act decisively against the activities of these groups and individuals within the european area. i regret to say that we are seeing a rise in extremism especially in younger age groups across europe, which perhaps also points to the failure of politicians. it should be noted that many politicians, for lack of positive and professional topics, seek their political background and capital precisely by provoking the often inexperienced and poorly informed public. it is therefore the business and duty of all of us to adopt stronger legislation and stronger measures while there is still time.
ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your words. the report addresses the problem of the many conflicts of interest between the human rights agency and the council of europe. i see this problem as secondary. the primary problem is not between the fundamental rights agency and the council of europe, but between the european court of human rights in strasbourg and the european court of justice in luxembourg. both of these courts have jurisdiction to act in the area of human rights violations, and we have several court decisions where these two courts have contradicted each other. most of the cases concerned articles 6 and 8 of the european convention on human rights in antitrust proceedings, such as the national panasonic, hoechst ag, niemetz and others cases. finally, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention for the protection of human rights to which the european union is a party are two similar but different documents. the european union agency for fundamental rights has powers of a more monitoring and assistance nature and therefore the conclusion of an agreement under article 300 of the treaty on european community clarifying powers and the council of europe having its representative on the administrative board is to be welcomed. however, given the agency's limited powers, i believe that its work will not compete with the council of europe, but rather complement it. in any case, this issue will need to be addressed further, because the charter of fundamental rights, if it becomes binding, we have to deal with it.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, let me first congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur mr martin, for a high-quality and comprehensive report. our negotiators should take note of it. we should also learn from the recently completed usa-korea fta, which shows that speed of conclusion is important, but should not be the top priority. the main goal should clearly be to accomplish high quality and an even playing field in flows of trade. today, those flows are still seriously impeded by non-trade barriers. korea does not apply international norms or labelling requirements regarding automotive products or other important products such as pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and electronics. there is also a need for clarification in the area of intellectual property rights and counterfeiting. these issues need to be resolved before we sign this fta, in order to ensure free and fair trade. unless all these issues are resolved to our complete satisfaction, i would advise the commission not to sign this agreement. i admire the economic miracle of south korea, which is reflected in the fact that it is the european union’s fourth largest trading partner. having a strong democracy has obviously benefited them greatly, and one has to feel sorry for their brothers and sisters in north korea. we should be prepared to do all we can to bring about an emotional reunion similar to the one we saw in the late 1980s between east and west germany. this should, of course, be based on the principle of democracy, which has brought so much success to south korea.
mr president, the black sea is becoming one of the main routes for the region's growing oil exports and, unfortunately, in recent years it has also been the site of frequent accidents involving tankers or cargo ships. twelve vessels have sunk or been wrecked here during severe storms, with serious consequences, affecting lives and causing ecological disasters of great proportions. another example of a major disaster is the exon valdez oil tanker that crashed in the alaskan wilderness more than 18 years ago, and the effects are still felt today. given that an average of 200 tankers cross the world's seas every day, i consider it essential that the situation in the black sea, as well as in other seas, be regularly and strictly monitored. member states, as well as countries neighbouring the european union, should ensure more thoroughly the application of existing maritime safety legislation and standards, and here i would welcome the acceleration of negotiations in the council and the adoption of common positions on the remaining legislative acts in the third maritime safety package.
thank you very much, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our plenary session today concludes one of the most important presidencies of the european union in the last decade. this is not a normal political semester, when the presidency tries to coordinate the member states united in the european union. after the very successful german presidency, which concluded the period of reflection on the constitutional treaty, the portuguese presidency successfully managed to sign the so-called treaty of lisbon. just as portugal entered the history books as the founder and discoverer of a new land, so portugal will be written in the modern history of europe as the founder of a new history within the european union. i believe that the european parliament's future role in this treaty will be far more important than it has been up to now. in addition to this important document, the portuguese presidency should also be highlighted for the eu-brazil summit and the recently concluded eu-africa summit. both summits provided a good basis for the activities of the future presidencies and for increasing the european union's influence in this part of the world. mr president, allow me to conclude by thanking you for your work and wishing you a happy and cheerful christmas.
in writing. on the occasion of the end of the portuguese presidency, i would like to express my sincere satisfaction that on 21 december 2007 the internal borders of the enlarged schengen area will be a thing of the past. mr josé sócrates, prime minister of the portuguese government, allow me to acknowledge and thank you for your personal commitment and courageous stance to make one of the four fundamental freedoms of the union, namely the free movement of persons, available to the citizens of nine member states, including my country, slovakia, within the timeframe set. the path to one of the eu's longed-for freedoms was not an easy one, and at times the whole project threatened to end in a dead end. a year ago, it looked like nothing to celebrate, as the commission announced that the deadline for the borderless area could be pushed back to 2009. the delay was due to difficulties in preparing the sis ii system, which is to increase the capacity of the current sis and allow its extension to the east of the eu. several member states were reluctant to seek any rescue solution, but only the portuguese representatives did not hesitate. shortly after the first signs of crisis, the approval of the very elegant sisone4all solution from the portuguese workshop gave hope that the long-awaited schengen enlargement might succeed. thanks to the kindness and consequent commitment of the portuguese presidency, we will have a passport-free christmas this year.
