a society in which both sexes play an equal role is more successful than one run by members of one sex. there are also professions that are naturally easier or better for men to perform, and others that are better for women. but we've known for a long time that in leadership positions or political positions, both men and women can do well. why, then, do we need to adopt gender equality reports when we live in the european union, the most democratic society in the world, which has set itself the highest standards of democracy? i have seen for myself that even in the european parliament this is still necessary. in various documents we impose new duties on citizens, but when it comes to the division of roles and prestigious political functions in our parliament, there is an unrelenting battle for positions. gender equality and the equality of small and large countries are easily justified by the donatist system. i am happy to be a member of the epp-de political group, but i am not satisfied with the division of functions. in the event that a woman dares to run for leadership, she must give up her candidacy in favor of another female candidate so that at least one woman can be elected from among the multitude of men. women should not run for office just because they are women, but because we have many capable women who have proven themselves in the workplace many times over. i don't want to put all the blame on the men. we need to make women more ambitious, too, and not just do-as-you-thinkers. before we impose legal obligations and recommendations on our citizens, let's see how we meet them ourselves.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the group of the european people's party - european democrats is committed to the consistent observance of the european legal order and of all documents which ensure respect for the values of european civilisation and protect the freedom and personal integrity of the individual. we oppose all illegal practices that restrict this freedom and that act against the individual. at the same time, we are aware that security and peace require certain limits. that's why we advocate for the smallest and most legally justified intrusion into a person's privacy. on the basis of the documents available, there is a reasonable suspicion that access to swift data could constitute an unlawful interference with a person's privacy. so let me ask you the following questions. first, i would like to have a precise answer to the question of what data of the swift system is accessible to the us authorities and what data they can obtain on this basis. secondly, whether the us authorities have access to all transactions of the swift branch in the us or whether they can obtain transaction data outside the us via this or other swift branches. thirdly, i ask the commission, the council and the european data protection supervisor whether access to swift data constitutes a breach of data protection provisions and therefore an unlawful interference with privacy. fourthly, the october hearing did not provide convincing and sufficiently clear answers on the competence of the institutions in the swift case, and i therefore ask who is actually competent in this case and on what legal basis. and fifthly, i would like to know what our starting point is in negotiating with the us on this issue and whether in this context we will also learn how the us authorities handle the data obtained and what the risks of data leakage and its misuse are. mr. coelho will speak about the pnr. thank you, thank you!
on wednesday 17 january, a press conference was held in the european parliament, at which the german, portuguese and slovenian presidents presented the programme of the presidency for the next 18 months. this was the presentation of the programme of the first european troika. because of its great, even symbolic, importance, the press conference was attended by the presidents of the european parliament and the european commission, in addition to the three heads of government. given the importance of the event, i was appalled by the fact that the press conference was held in a totally inappropriate space, which was far too small for anyone who wanted to listen to the prime ministers. working conditions for journalists were unacceptably poor. let's ask ourselves two questions. do we want quality and transparent reporting of our work? and secondly, do we want our work to be more visible to european citizens? if that is the case, i would urge those responsible to arrange for future press conferences to be held in more suitable venues, and above all in larger ones, so that everyone can have access. after all, it is journalists who have a decisive influence on the public image of the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, i would very much like to welcome parliament’s report in response to our green paper and of course to congratulate mrs ries for her excellent work. i can easily say that i agree with her approach taken in the report and especially of course the underlining of the need to place public health at the centre of considerations right across europe. the challenge for all of us is to make this happen. we are talking here about a big challenge because we are referring to changes of lifestyle and that is not always an easy task. it is a long-term and constant effort and we have to insist and persist on this. it is a complex problem which requires complex solutions. the commission did not follow the blame game because, in reality, we are all to blame for this. we saw the problem creeping up but we tended to ignore it; we always thought it was more of a problem for north america and we were ignoring the fact that it was becoming a european problem. so we all have responsibility and therefore we all have to contribute to its solution. this issue is very high on our agenda, and i can repeat here once again that obesity could easily be the most serious health threat for the european union for the 21st century. there is no need to analyse the problems and the health concerns and harm that arise out of obesity. even more worrying is the rising prevalence of obesity among children. the figures are really worrying: 40 million children today, increasing by 400 000 a year. this is really something of concern. the commission will adopt a white paper this coming month. in developing and drafting this paper – i can call it a strategy – we will take the ideas and the views raised in the report seriously into account. for us, this approach will follow a combination of self-regulatory, voluntary and – why not? – some regulatory measures as well. in relation to regulation, i could easily refer to health claims or the review on food labelling that will be coming out soon, this year most probably. but of course we have the platform, you are aware of that, where we have concrete commitments on the part of the stakeholders. these are commitments that have to be verifiable and monitored and independent in an objective way. we will soon be issuing the second monitoring report from the platform. the report touches on many issues and many topics with which we agree, such as food reformulation, incentive schemes for self-regulation and the very sensitive issue of the advertising of foods to children. the truth is, until now we have been concentrating very much on the intake of food, on nutrition. we now aim to put more emphasis on the physical activity part, which is also a serious concern for european citizens. member states also have a great responsibility here and i would like to highlight the reference in the report to sports in schools. this is a very important factor. it is embarrassing for me to say that in the european union there is not enough physical activity in schools among children and teenagers. the big challenge is not only to bring it back but to make it fun again. this is an important factor. i can very briefly refer to a parent who was complaining to me that his son comes back home from school and plays basketball on the computer and does not play the real game outside in the schoolyard. this is the reality. so your reference to video games is very important, but we also have to use a more scientific, a more advanced, a more modern approach to bring fun back to physical exercise so that schoolchildren and teenagers exercise for fun. sport should not just be for athletes and competitors, but for everybody. we have already referred to the reform of the common organisation of the markets in fruit and vegetables. we intend to promote the consumption of fruit and vegetables. this is a very important aspect, but we will also continue working on the aspect of affordability as well, because unfortunately nowadays healthy food is much more expensive than what we have come to know as junk food. i would like to finish here and thank the rapporteur again for her excellent work. i assure you that we will take parliament’s views very seriously into account when we are drafting our strategy over the next few months.
on behalf of the alde group. colleagues, we generally agree that if we want people to change their unhealthy eating habits and lifestyles, we need to convince them that change is worthwhile. they need to be reeducated, so to speak. the manner in which this information is provided is essential in this respect. when thinking about appropriate ways of communicating, we could take into account the experience we have from other areas of awareness-raising. for example, the participation of individuals in the fight against climate change has long been unheard of by the general public. it's different now. the educational television channels are already falling into the ground. obviously, it takes a long period of patient notification before messages take effect. when it comes to persuading young people to abandon unhealthy eating habits, the role of parents should not be underestimated. we're raising them too. when they are convinced that this is good for their children, they can achieve great things in their particular environment. i have a report from my constituency on a case where parents, encouraged by our activity in the european parliament, started to change the outer frames of the dietary habits of schoolchildren with the consent of the school. for example, they removed junk food vending machines from nearby schools, encouraged the use of seasonal fruit for school lunches, and, imagine, children walking to school every day.
on february 1st this year, unknown persons set fire to a nursery in trieste, which is intended for children of the slovenian minority. as a result, the children had to be moved to other temporary facilities. similar actions against the slovenian minority have been carried out in the past, when a slovenian primary school was burned down, which after six years of promises has still not been renewed. so slovenian parents fear that the same thing will happen in this case. the slovenian minority rightly demands that the market authorities detect and punish the arsonists and thus protect the slovenian minority from further similar acts. they also expect to rebuild the kindergartens and schools as soon as possible. at this point, i would like to point out that despite many promises made in recent times, the italian authorities have still not fully implemented the law protecting the slovenian minority.
on behalf of the alde group. the alde group welcomes the commission's fundamental approach to the revision of the envelope directive, which looks at waste as a potential source. our aim is to take a balanced approach that takes into account both the consequences of the increase in the volume of waste, i.e. its risks to the environment and human health, and the requirements of the growing market for new waste management technologies. in terms of the hierarchy of waste management measures, we support in principle separate collection and recycling wherever it is economically and environmentally efficient. we also support the effective management of residual waste that cannot be used or recycled. we note that those countries that have been most successful in reducing dependence on landfills have achieved this goal through a combination of recycling, biological treatment of waste, such as composting, and the use of waste for energy production, provided that the specialised plants meet stringent emission criteria. if they qualify, they should have the opportunity to be recognised as energy-producing installations, rather than being at the bottom of the waste hierarchy, equated with landfills. the possibility of obtaining r1 status will encourage these plants to become energy efficient, which is also in line with the european plan to reduce co2 emissions by 20%. in our amendment no 133 we propose a compromise which complements the commission's original formula with elements from the debate in the committee on the environment. we link the hierarchy to the product life cycle criterion. the introduction of such a mindset is a contribution to the sustainable nature of resources and raw materials. it is an approach that sees waste not only as a harm and a risk to the environment, but also as a potential saving of natural resources. life cycle analyses should be complemented by cost-benefit calculations to guide operators in the choice of types of measures. in conclusion, let me say that in the field of waste management, much has been achieved in recent years, in fact, decades. as technologies advance and costs gradually decrease, there is no point in breaking down well-run processes. this has guided our group in particular in the preparation of the amendments to the definition of recycling and to the two directives on waste oils and hazardous waste which will expire. i can say that we fully support the ideas expressed today by commissioner dimas that we need legal clarity, because that is also one of our objectives. the european court of justice is a very important institution, but our aim must be that we do the legislative work and the court only judges in borderline cases that arise on this basis. i too would like to thank both rapporteurs, caroline jackson and johannes blockland, for their good work and cooperation.
mr commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. as a member of parliament, a frequent flyer and a pilot, i welcome the amendments to regulation 1592/2, which are very important for civil aviation safety. this is not just a crucial security issue. it is time for the european union to define more clearly its relationship with the sky, which is the relationship with those who fly, those who produce aircraft and those who control all of this. it is important that we contribute to the unification of standards, which is the only way to contribute to the establishment of a single aviation area. the common market is also important. if we want to have a more common market, we must also harmonise the rules for the production and certification of aircraft. the differences in this area are particularly felt by ultralight pilots. i particularly welcome the intention to pay more attention to sports pilots. they will be happy to see the rules simplified and streamlined, rather than attempts to introduce additional bureaucratic procedures.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. this report, for which i warmly congratulate my colleague doris pack, is a partnership with bosnia and herzegovina and expresses our clear will and expectation that after the presidential and parliamentary elections there will be progress in this country, which is not doing well enough in many areas. i think it is essential for bosnia and herzegovina to engage its political potential after the elections and to take its share of responsibility for the progress of this country on the path towards a stabilisation and association agreement. taking responsibility means opening the way to reform. and the only way that can happen is if the country lives more with what unites it and less with what divides it. without constitutional reform, there can be no progress on this path. i also support the report because it covers the open issues very comprehensively, is realistic, constructive and also very conciliatory. i particularly find the proposals in the field of education useful, and they are of course intended to help the new generation to take on political responsibilities. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the urgency of adopting and implementing police reform. it could also serve as a model for overcoming differences between entities in other areas. i end by emphasizing, as is clear from the conclusion of this report, that progress cannot be made without the unity of the international community and its representatives. i think it is very important that the mandate of the high representative be extended and, of course, that he should enjoy unwavering support in his care for bosnia and herzegovina.
i would like to congratulate mrs doris pack on her excellent report and thank her for her cooperative approach. the international court of justice ruling in the hague last month has opened old wounds, reviving wars and other antagonisms on the bosnian political scene. the court is right. there is no collective responsibility, only individual, concrete responsibility of politicians and commanders. as the european parliament's rapporteur on serbia, i therefore call on the members of the serbian assembly to respond to the call of their president, mr tadić, to face the past and condemn the genocide in srebrenica. the declaration condemning the genocide would be an important contribution by belgrade to the de-escalation of tensions in bosnia and a step forward for the future. it is unacceptable and unworthy that the perpetrators of the worst crime in europe since world war ii are still at large. the authorities of the republic of serbia also need to take a much more constructive approach to police reform, including by approving the demarcation of new areas of responsibility of the police. as has been mentioned several times in this parliament, without this cooperation the stabilisation and association agreement cannot be signed. finally, i would like to inform you that together with my colleague from the epp, neil parish, i have launched an initiative for an inter-parliamentary mission of meps to sarajevo and srebrenica, where we will be going next week. the visit will be devoted to the problem of refugees returning to this fragile part of our continent.
i would like to commend the rapporteur, mr lagendijk, for his extremely responsible effort to achieve the greatest possible political unity in the report by which the european parliament takes up its share of responsibility in deciding on the final status of kosovo, which has been under the auspices of the united nations since 1999. the european union's responsibility is even greater, since the negotiations have unfortunately failed to reach a solution. kosovo, serbia, south-east europe and all of europe need peace and stability. this is also the right of the people of this region, regardless of their nationality. in view of the accumulated problems and tensions in kosovo, the process towards final status should be conducted in such a way that chaotic developments do not occur, which would again undermine the dignity of any national identity or contribute to destabilising or further complicating the european perspective for the countries of the region. the rapporteur, like all of us, is bound by common values and principles, in particular the thessaloniki perspective for the countries of south-east europe, which was offered with the desire to permanently eliminate the sources of conflict in this part of europe. we are working together to find a solution that will bring about a multi-ethnic coexistence in kosovo and establish as soon as possible conditions under which kosovo, facing extremely difficult economic and social problems, can begin to move towards reconciliation, progress and prosperity.
this weekend in rome and berlin, we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome and looked forward to a long period of peace. but in the western balkans during this time, not only was there peace, but there were also very, very cruel and destructive wars. the genocide in srebrenica has taught us all that we cannot and must not risk and allow the danger of another such human catastrophe in kosovo. that's why we took the timely, preemptive military action eight years ago. even then, there was a risk of veto at the united nations, and we still succeeded. but today, kosovo is still only halfway there, without status, without access to international financial resources, without an effectively functioning rule of law. but only the state can and must provide the basis and framework for economic recovery, for foreign and domestic investment, for the creation of much-needed jobs. only a state can become a member of the european union. delays in these processes leading to the determination of status could jeopardise the fragile situation and slow down positive processes that stabilise the region, foster economic and political cooperation between neighbours and link them together in their intention to advance the development of cooperation with other countries of the european union and shape their own environment after our own example. and with the dynamism that marti ahtissari's efforts to establish status bring, we are also bringing more hope and the spirit and practices of the european union into the lives of all the people of this region. their future, their coexistence and their well-being are at stake. i therefore believe that politicians in neighbouring serbia, montenegro, albania and macedonia, as well as in croatia and bosnia, will find further incentives to bring the european union closer together.
i feel it is necessary to inform this house that on 12 april 2007 an attempt was made in kosovo to assassinate, for the second time this year, the director of the kosovo telecommunications agency, mr anton berisha. the first assassination attempt was carried out on february 28th of this year, the second assassination attempt was carried out with military hand-held anti-tank mines and, fortunately, mr. berisha survived the second assassination attempt. unfortunately, the policeman who was protecting him was badly injured. we have always spoken out in this parliament against acts of violence and violations of the most basic human rights, which cannot contribute to positive development. it is right that our parliament calls on the kosovo authorities to do everything possible to ensure that the sponsors of such terrorist acts are actually traced and brought to justice. only by the consistent work of the public security authorities and the subsequent prosecution of the perpetrators of such acts will it be possible to restore hope that peace and trust in the authorities will return to kosovo as well.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the european parliament for the particular attention it has paid to this strategy. i thank mrs liotard and the shadow rapporteurs for the report we are discussing today. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). the use of natural resources is vital both for the state of the environment and for our economic development. the developments are indeed worrying, and the effects are felt in the form of continued loss of biodiversity, greenhouse gas emissions, degradation of water, air and soil quality, and significant economic costs. it is clear that the way we use our natural resources is a threat to the ecosystems on which our quality of life and well-being depend. we must therefore adapt our economic activities to the resilience of our planet. this is the aim of the natural resources strategy, the result of an intense - often contentious - but highly productive dialogue that has lasted over five years. the strategy offers a resource-based approach to environmental policy and a long-term framework for reducing the environmental impact of the use of natural resources in a developing economy. it also aims to improve efficiency in the use of natural resources. these are very ambitious but achievable goals. europe has already managed to stabilise the use of natural resources in certain sectors of the economy. we are lagging behind other countries, such as japan, which uses its natural resources much more efficiently than europe. the strategy promotes products, technologies and consumption patterns that are more resource-efficient and less polluting. new initiatives to implement the strategy have already been taken and progressed. let me give three examples: first, the commission is setting up a data centre to provide information for policy-making, and this will help to understand more fully the use of resources and the impact of different economic activities. secondly, in order to measure progress towards improving environmental protection and saving natural resources, the commission will seek to develop a new generation of indicators; many quantitative indicators relating to the use of natural resources have already been established, for example in the fields of energy and climate change. the setting of strict air and water quality targets and waste recycling targets contributes to the objectives of the natural resources strategy. the strategy will help us to work out the overall quantitative objective of saving natural resources in our economy. thirdly, the application of a life-cycle approach to all our policies on the use of natural resources. we must take account of the environmental impact of natural resources from the seed to the sheath, that is from the cradle to the grave, so that the impact does not shift from one stage of the life cycle to another or to other countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the natural resources we use in europe are actually coming more and more from developing countries. biofuels are another very typical example. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of national quotas for the production of milk. in cooperation with the united nations environment programme, we are setting up an international commission on the sustainable use of natural resources, which will begin to assess the planetary impacts of resource use and propose measures. the work programme of this new international commission already includes issues such as environmental conditions for biofuel production and the implementation of measures on a global scale to strengthen the recycling society. if this committee can come close to the achievements of the international commission on climate change, we will have achieved a great deal of our objectives. the foundations have already been laid, ladies and gentlemen. the commission is committed to ensuring that the natural resources strategy is successfully implemented, through your careful consideration and your proposals. this strategy guides us in the long term towards the sustainable use of natural resources and can serve as a benchmark for other policies. it is only the first stage in a long process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group. the thematic strategy under discussion is probably the most important sub-strategy of the sixth environment action programme, with its aim of more efficient use of energy and raw materials. its main objective is to prevent the unnecessary waste of renewable and non-renewable resources, which threatens the balance of the environment. among the measures to limit overconsumption, the philosophy of product life cycles holds a special place. it is possible to significantly increase the volume of products that we return to the economy and re-use at the end of their life cycle. the strategy is closely linked to the process of reviewing european waste management law. the ambitious goals we want to see in this thematic strategy are not unrealistic. priorities in the policy debate on resource conservation have already significantly increased the willingness of citizens to participate in the useful reuse of waste. our cities, for example, are potential resources mines. just as mining can be used to extract iron, zinc, copper, plastic, using advanced methods of collection and separation, we will use three times less energy than producing it from new raw materials. urban mining is a promising vision of the modern city as a profitable mine of recycled materials. and it's not the only one that's dramatically improving resource efficiency.
first, my sincere congratulations to my colleague and reporter, swoboda. in previous documents, the european parliament has always simply called on croatia to settle open border issues with neighbouring countries through bilateral agreements. but nothing has changed. it is likely that nothing has changed because croatian policy is unwilling or unable to accept the responsibility to settle these open border issues through bilateral agreements, even though some neighbouring countries, including slovenia, have done everything in their power to bring about the conclusion of these agreements. it is therefore good and right that the rapporteur hannes swoboda has found consensus by mentioning the possible intervention of a third party and that this applies to all border issues or to all countries bordering croatia and with which border issues are largely unregulated. it is also right that we have welcomed croatia's progress and called on the european union to do everything in its power to establish a legal basis for croatia's accession to the european union.
croatia deserves to be congratulated on all that this report says, as it has made clear progress in many areas. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the lisbon strategy, which aims to achieve a high level of employment and social cohesion in the eu. relations with our neighbour croatia are well developed, and i look forward to the moment when our fellow observers from zagreb will be able to join us in this hall. in the spirit of strengthening bilateral relations, i support the amendment tabled by mr alfonso andrie, 23 members of the alde group. italy and slovenia were upset by the croatian parliament's decision in december to activate the croatian ecological and fishing zone. the unilateral provocation is clearly damaging to croatia's credibility and worsening otherwise good relations in the region. the amendment proposed by mr andria is important because it underlines the importance of the tripartite agreement between italy, croatia and slovenia reached in brussels on 4 june 2004. i also welcome the positive response of swoboda to the initiative to supplement amendment no 24 with an oral amendment. in this way, he achieved a balance in the report, as croatia also has open border issues with bosnia, montenegro and serbia. and let us not forget that bosnia, montenegro and serbia also deserve a european future.
first of all, i would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur, mr hannes swoboda, and to the shadow rapporteur, mr bernd posselt, for the work they have done, which has given rise to widespread support for this report. i am pleased that this report begins by recognising croatia's good progress in a number of areas, while also being realistic and precise about the challenging tasks that the candidate country still has to complete on its path to accession. among them, she mentions its open issues with neighbouring countries. i expect croatia to fully implement the commitments made in the agreements already concluded with slovenia and other neighbouring countries in the spirit of this report, and to work with them towards the resolution of bilateral issues and towards a lasting good neighbourliness, especially among the inhabitants of border areas. good neighborliness should be strengthened by joint action, not unilateral action. i welcome the ambition that, if the conditions are met, the negotiation process can be concluded in such a way that this parliament can give its consent before the next parliamentary elections. the project of european integration must continue. it is right that we are aware of the importance and welcome value for europe of any progress in croatia and in the countries of south-east europe towards the implementation of european values, principles and common rules of the game. i welcome the report's emphasis on the importance of croatia's progress for all the other countries to which the thessaloniki decisions opened the prospect of full integration into the european union. it is also right to be aware that we are receiving a progress report on one of the countries that was marked by war in the 1990s. some of the effects of war can only be overcome by a genuine commitment to the european spirit, which includes efforts at reconciliation. in this respect too, croatia's successes are important for the development of the wider region. we know that history is not always our ally, but in view of some of the amendments proposed, i must express the conviction that this report cannot impose on croatia, as a democratic state which has renounced all totalitarianism, tasks which the western democracies have not previously imposed on any other country. (applause) i would like to thank you.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, madam member of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great success in the fight against racism and xenophobia. first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament and the council for the efforts they have made to reach agreement on this proposal so quickly. i also welcome the report by mrs figueiredo, which has given rise to a constructive dialogue with the council presidency, thus creating the conditions for the adoption of the draft directive at first reading. the commission's proposal for a directive is part of the process of simplifying the legal environment. the aim of this proposal is to simplify and rationalise the reporting obligations of the member states and the commission on the implementation of the directives on safety and health at work, without undermining the principle of protection, which is a fundamental requirement. the new text harmonises the deadlines for the submission of national reports, to be submitted every five years, and this obligation is extended to all existing directives. only one report is planned, comprising a general section on the general principles of the framework directive, supplemented by special chapters on aspects relating to the individual directives. this will provide a general overview of the practical implementation. the simplification will concern the national authorities, who will produce only one report every five years, the commission, which will produce only one national report per member state instead of the current five hundred, and the social partners, who will also contribute to one report every five years. the commission, in close cooperation with the advisory committee on safety and health at work, shall set up a body to assist the member states in the preparation of the comprehensive reports. the commission is prepared to accept the amendments you vote for. they reinforce the role of the tripartite advisory committee on safety and health at work in defining the structure of the report, clearly define the content of the report and set deadlines for the preparation of reports by the member states and the commission. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. first of all, on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, i would like to welcome this report as one of the first steps towards a substantial reduction in the burden on member states in relation to various administrative tasks, while at the same time this directive will contribute to a simpler and clearer commission. we in the european people's party/european democrats are very pleased that the agreement with the rapporteur has been successful and that we have collectively reached such a high level of consensus within our committee. as i recall, we passed this report by only one vote against. in substance, this was another clear message to the european public that the commission, the council and the parliament were committed to streamlining procedures, to improving communication between the member states and the european institutions so that everyone could benefit from it. this directive and this single report will not reduce any standard in the field of safety and health at work in any way. in my political group we regard this report as a whole and this directive as an important step forward, but we would naturally like to see similar initiatives in other areas, including with other commissioners. for example, in the area of terrorism, the european parliament has adopted some 60 different documents, directives, regulations, etc. things are pretty fuzzy, like the schengen agreement, the internal market, and so on. in short, this report is a good example of how we can achieve a high degree of consensus within political groups on how to manage our common affairs in the future. i also want to thank commissioner spidla for his cooperation.
on behalf of the alde group. for the countries that joined the european union in 2004 and later, coordinating efforts in the field of structural policies will be a difficult administrative test. it's in everyone's interest to make this as smooth as possible. in order to be able to speak of the success of an integrated european structural policy at the end of the budgetary period, it is essential to promote communication between actors at national and regional levels, the exchange of experience and the learning from good examples. the rapporteur proposes indicators to compare the different practices. our group also believes that the achievement of the development objectives of the european union as a whole depends on the amount of structural fund resources devoted to innovation. the shift towards renewable energy sources is an area where national development interests are intertwined with community objectives. sustainable urban development also requires a coordinated approach to the use of the various structural policy tools, as it touches on a number of objectives, from housing to employment to waste management, as a specific aspect of the relationship with natural resources. we agree with the rapporteur that the indicators for measuring progress should be such as to encourage the implementers of structural policies to seek synergies in different areas. the promotion of competitiveness, especially in the small enterprise category, is one such potential synergy effect that deserves to be closely monitored and analysed. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs pleguezuelos, for her successful work.
the president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken on behalf of your colleague, mr miroslav ouzký, and i can assure you that the presidency will: as in previous meetings of the conference of the parties to the washington convention on biological diversity, the eu member states will jointly represent the agreed community position. the council will shortly adopt this position on the basis of the commission's recent proposal and will of course inform parliament of the position thus adopted. the community's position will have three overarching objectives: the aim of the agreement is to achieve the highest possible level of efficiency. this requires first of all the reduction of unnecessary administrative burdens. the parties shall endeavour to develop a comprehensive approach to the conservation of fisheries resources, including through the development of a comprehensive approach to the conservation of fisheries resources. the need to create more synergies between the convention on the conservation of species and other multilateral instruments and procedures concerning biodiversity; in particular, the outcomes of the 14th conference should contribute to significantly reducing the global rate of biodiversity loss by 2010 and to achieving the millennium development goals. the european union also wants to ensure at the conference that the proposed amendments to the annexes to the washington convention will actually improve the conservation status of the species concerned. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. this is the only way to reduce poaching and illegal trade and ensure the sustainability of international trade in species. as far as the individual species are concerned, elephants and whales are again the focus of this conference. in conclusion, the community remains unwilling to agree to the resumption of commercial ivory trade until appropriate mechanisms are in place to prevent further illegal killing of elephants. it therefore calls on all elephant range states to engage in constructive dialogue and cooperation on elephant conservation and sustainable management. the international whaling commission has the primacy in whale matters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. consequently, a review of the whale stocks for possible downgrading of the conservation status under cites should only be considered once the international whaling commission considers that appropriate mechanisms for this management control have been put in place. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee on the environment for their interest in this important question.
member of the commission. madam president, the 14th conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora in the hague is indeed the first cites conference to be held in the european union since cites was put in place in 1973. therefore i think it will provide a very good opportunity to highlight our strong commitment to the implementation of this convention and to raise political and public awareness. i believe it will be the first time that a ministerial conference will address key issues regarding the future of the convention. therefore the following key strategic objectives for the conference of the parties known as cop 14 have been defined. the cop should reconfirm the important contribution that cites made, or can make, to reaching the 2010 target of significantly reducing the rate of biodiversity loss. the community fully supports the contribution of cites to this global target by regulating international trade in wildlife and wildlife products in order to ensure that this is sustainable. the new strategic vision for cites for 2008 to 2013 will determine how cites can ensure that conservation, sustainable use and poverty reduction can also be mutually supportive and are therefore crucial for the continued importance and relevance of cites. the draft strategic vision also advocates that cites should pay greater attention to the international trade in commercially exploited timber and fish species. given the strain on natural resources and continued over-exploitation, the community believes that cites could focus more on ensuring sustainable trade in such species. we the community have submitted proposals for listing several marine and timber species on cites, so i think this will be a very important discussion. finally, a key issue for cites cop 14 will of course be elephant ivory. diverging proposals are on the table from elephant range states in africa. we continue to hold the view that commercial trade in government-owned ivory stocks should not be resumed until we are satisfied that all mechanisms are in place to ensure that trade will not result in the increased illegal killing of elephants. these mechanisms are currently being put in place and should hopefully be operational before we take a final position on this matter.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, there is a strong case for supporting the proposal for a 20-year moratorium on the ivory trade. contrary to what some southern african range states say – that they have too many elephants – estimates by the african elephant status report put the population at between 10 and 20 % of what it was in the 1930s and 1940s. the major cause of the decline is the ivory trade. ivory prices increased more than seven times over in china and japan in the late 1990s. a 20-year moratorium will send a clear signal that international trade is banned, it would suppress demand, lower prices and remove incentives for buying and stockpiling ivory. commissioner, could you be more precise as regards to what extent the commission intends to take into consideration the pro-moratorium position expressed by the delegation of western and central african states who visited us at the european parliament?
in europe, we like to boast of being recognisable for our cultural diversity and our fine art. but we rarely talk about the fact that these works of art are the work of many impoverished artists who were not paid properly during their lifetime and enjoy only posthumous fame. even today's rare artists find themselves on the edge of survival due to the complex procedures of obtaining work permits or calculating working hours, even though their works are magnificent and appreciated throughout europe. as culture and the arts are among those fields that bring not only spiritual enrichment but also great economic benefits and many jobs, it is quite unbelievable and unacceptable that today's top artists also have to deal with issues of survival and social insecurity. for example, an artist in slovenia is an artist elsewhere in europe and it would be a pity to confine oneself to the borders of one's own country because of administrative obstacles, thus depriving citizens of other member states of artistic enjoyment. in the field of education and in the european labour market, we place a strong emphasis on mobility, which is very important for artists and art users in particular and contributes greatly to intercultural dialogue and the interconnection of the peoples and cultures of the european union. it would therefore be right for europe to take important steps here too, to harmonise legislation to the extent that it is also useful and more transparent for non-artists, or at least to introduce appropriate instruments that will contribute to greater mobility and social security for artists.
a key component of our rapidly evolving society is timely responsiveness, which requires rapid access to, transmission and exchange of information. in this spirit, i welcome the resolution we are debating today and which the european parliament will adopt tomorrow. in the european union, we have set ourselves the main objective of the lisbon strategy to become the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world. however, we find that the objectives we set ourselves are not being fully achieved. i also see this document, drawn up by the european commission and inextricably linked to the lisbon strategy, as both an identification of the problem and an incentive to take a step forward in this area. the first priority is to promote the balanced development of the appropriate infrastructure, which will enable every citizen of the european union, regardless of geographical location or social status, to have access to high-quality broadband connections. these must be functionally capable so that the user can access the full range of services offered. i would like to draw attention to the raising of the threshold for the definition of broadband. we need to exploit the potential of data transmission, teleworking, digital signage, use in educational processes, etc. broadband services therefore offer not only opportunities for entertainment but also for job creation. measures are needed at both european union and member state level to encourage investment in this area, based on the principle of public-private partnership and equal access for service providers and users. at the same time, these measures should ensure market transparency, the same rules for all participants and adequate protection of consumers' rights. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation and for the excellent report. the resolution also shows meps that we want to achieve the strategic objectives of the european union and contribute to its credibility and to the integration of its citizens.
none of the arguments usually invoked to justify animal cruelty can be invoked in the case of the trade in dog and cat skins. they don't kill them for clothing or food, not even for hunting. the incentive to kill is set by the global market, the demand of some industries for raw materials that are cheaper than synthetic ones, since people living in extreme poverty on other continents get little from the sale. the european market now generates global supply with its own demand. and it's time to end it. for ethical reasons, but also to stop consumers being duped into buying clothes or toys made from the skins of dogs or cats. it would be better if there were no exceptions to the import ban. but if we have the main goal in mind, compromise makes sense. effective implementation of the regulation will be very important. we expect a lot from the commission and in particular from mr kyprianou, to whom i, like the rapporteur, mrs svensson, express my gratitude for the efforts he has made.
member of the commission. mr president, i have to say that i am happy that we are having this discussion today, but i know for many who do not know the details of these proposals that it may not sound very exciting. as a topic it may appear to be very technical, but it is not for me, because these proposals combine most of the european priorities. they involve food safety and consumer protection, which is one of the main priorities. they also touch upon innovation and the competitiveness of the european food industry, which is one of europe’s main industries. they also seek to achieve simplification and better regulation. although we still do not see eye to eye on the issues relating to these proposals, i am confident that we agree on the principles, the purpose and the targets of these proposals and that we will agree on a solution soon. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, mrs westlund for the work she has done, mrs doyle and mrs drčar murko for their considerable efforts in preparing these reports and, of course, the overall support for the proposal. in addition to simplification, this package also provides for harmonisation and promotes consistency between the three areas. the common authorisation procedure will establish a system for assessing and authorising additives, enzymes and flavourings in a consistent manner and will simplify administrative procedures for national authorities and business operators. comitology is a sensitive issue. the proposal introduces comitology in order to update community lists of additives, enzymes and flavourings to ensure that these can be adapted in a timely manner. i should remind you that these are purely technical and scientific issues, but we need to be able to resolve them in a timely manner. this is of major importance for consumer safety and the competitiveness of the food industry. i am aware of the concerns about the proposal to use comitology as expressed by members of parliament, but the alternative would be impractical and burdensome for all, especially for the european parliament, and would be unworkable in practice. i know there are several amendments already tabled which would introduce codecision for updating the community list of the additives, enzymes and flavourings. experience as regards various food additives has shown that authorisation of substances under codecision is long and complex. this has a negative impact on innovation and these delays increase risks for the consumers as well. on the other hand, comitology allows for fast authorisation and the introduction of restrictions or removal of substances, if necessary, in order to protect the consumers. we believe that the proposed use of comitology is a step towards the simplification of the legal framework and is essential for the three proposals. for this reason we would oppose the amendments that would introduce codecision for authorisation of these substances. however, i fully support the necessary adaptations the proposal contains with a view to establishing a regulatory procedure with parliamentary scrutiny. i would like to clarify this, because when the commission proposal was adopted we were still in the process of adopting the new system, so it still refers to the normal regulatory procedure. it will, therefore, have to be adapted, and we will do so in the amended proposal, to take into account the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny which will enhance the rights of parliament to scrutinise and have full input into the authorisation of additives, enzymes and flavourings. and i believe through this new procedure we will achieve the intention of the european parliament while still maintaining the advantages of a simpler procedure. and now we will look very briefly at food additives and the other proposals. food additives have been used since ancient times to improve presentation and maintain nutritional quality. the regulation of these substances is important to ensure food safety and also to ensure that consumers are not misled. that is why it is appropriate to update the current legislation, encouraging innovation and development as long as they are safe. these are assessed by efsa and comply with other criteria laid down in the legislation. the current directive on flavourings also needs to be substantially amended in order to take into account technological and scientific developments in the areas of flavourings and the developments of food legislation in the european community. in the interest of clarity, efficiency and simplification, i should add that the best approach is to replace the directive with a new regulation on flavourings alongside a separate regulation on common authorisation procedures. the proposal on flavourings offers a high level of protection for the consumers while allowing the industry to continue to develop new flavourings and new applications in order to respond to increasing consumer demand for more convenient products. and finally we have the proposal on food enzymes. these have been used traditionally in the production of food such as bread, cheese, beer and wine. they can improve the texture, appearance and nutritional value of food and can be used as alternatives to chemical-based technology. at this stage the use of food enzymes is not fully harmonised within the european union and the national regulatory contexts differ significantly among member states. this lack of harmonisation has created barriers to trade and hindered growth in this field. as well as that, there is currently no safety evaluation of food enzymes at european level except for those few that are considered to be additives. in the meantime technology has advanced and production methods of enzymes have become progressively more complex and their use more sophisticated and widespread. safety evaluation of all food enzymes is therefore essential. the purpose of the commission proposal is to bridge the current regulatory gap by creating harmonised rules for the authorisation and use of food enzymes in the community. the establishment of the community list of approved enzymes and efficient updates of the list by comitology will foster the competitiveness of this european-led sector and ensure a high level of consumer protection. as i am running out of time, i will not tire you with a specific response to every amendment, but a full listing of the commission’s position on each of the amendments will be made available to parliament. i trust that this will be included in the report of proceedings for this sitting. our response will explain our position on each amendment. in conclusion, i would like to thank the parliament for the considerable effort it has devoted to this whole legislative package. it should remain our shared interest – and i am confident that this will be the case – to keep these proposals together and apply a consistent approach. commission's position on amendments by parliament report: westlund (a6-0153/2007) overall the commission can accept 28 amendments, either completely, subject to redrafting, in part or in principle. it rejects 11 out of a total of 39. 17 amendments are acceptable: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15, 21, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 30, 32 one amendment is acceptable partially and subject to redrafting: 3710 amendments are acceptable in principle and subject to redrafting: 3, 8, 11, 12, 19, 25, 34, 35, 36, 3811 amendments cannot be accepted: 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 20, 26, 29, 31, 33, 39 report: westlund (a6-0154/2007) overall the commission can accept 46 amendments, either completely, subject to redrafting, in part or in principle. it rejects 35 out of a total of 81. 21 amendments are acceptable: 8, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 21, 22, 36, 39, 42, 46, 48, 51, 56, 57, 59, 60, 3, 61, 62. one amendment is acceptable partially: 33 (part) 6 amendments are acceptable in principle: 9, 26, 28, 35, 43, 44. 18 amendments are acceptable in principle and subject to redrafting: 7, 15, 23, 37, 55, 58, 1, 4, 63, 65 (64rev), 66 (65rev), 68 (67rev), 69 (68rev), 70rev, 71, 77, 79, 80 35 amendments cannot be accepted: 10, 11, 12, 17, 20, 24, 25, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32, 34, 38, 40, 41, 45, 47, 49, 50, 52, 53, 54, 2, 5, 6, 67 (66rev), 70 (69rev), 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 78, 81 report: doyle (a6-0177/2007) overall the commission can accept 32 amendments, either completely, subject to redrafting, in part or in principle. it rejects 8 out of a total of 40. 13 amendments are acceptable: 2, 3, 8, 10, 22, 23, 25, 27, 28, 30, 31, 35, 40. 3 amendments are acceptable partially: 1, 4, 19. 3 amendments are acceptable partially and subject to redrafting: 12, 14, 21. 13 amendments are acceptable in principle and subject to redrafting: 5, 7, 11, 15, 17, 18, 20, 24, 26, 29, 33, 34, 36. 8 amendments cannot be accepted: 6, 9, 13, 16, 32, 37, 38, 39. report: drčar murko (a6-0185/2007) overall the commission can accept 29 amendments, either completely, subject to redrafting, in part or in principle. it rejects 24 out of a total of 53. 15 amendments are acceptable: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 15, 28, 29, 30, 35, 36, 48. 10 amendments are acceptable in principle and subject to redrafting: 10, 14, 18, 25, 27, 31 (first part), 39, 41, 42, 45. 3 amendments are acceptable partially: 24, 33, 34 one amendment is acceptable partially and subject to redrafting: 125 amendments cannot be accepted: 2, 11, 13, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 31 (second part), 32, 37, 38, 40, 43, 44, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53.
the reporter. i support the premise of the flavourings regulation: outdated european legislation needs to be modernised and simplified in order to improve the functioning of the internal market and to stimulate technological progress, but not at the expense of reducing consumer protection. on the contrary, we must increase protection. the objective of the harmonised rules on the authorisation of new food additives is to increase consumer confidence. they must be such as to exclude any possibility of misleading consumers, which requires, inter alia, the precise and transparent labelling of the products. in addition to the toxicological aspect of food safety, i believe that the practicality of adding flavourings to food should also be considered. it is possible that manufacturers would also use strong flavours to hide the bad ingredients in the prepared food. the question of the technological feasibility of flavourings is therefore linked to the criteria of protection of human health. the contested part of the regulation, in my view, concerns food ingredients with flavouring properties, in particular herbs and spices. these were included in the text of the regulation following the publication in the press of reports on the genotoxicity and/or carcinogenicity of certain pure biologically active principles in herbs. the maximum permitted quantities, which concern some 60 herbs and spices, are set out in annex iii to the regulation. we do not underestimate the scientific evidence that biologically active ingredients can be harmful in themselves. i agree that the possibility of accidental ingestion of toxic substances in prepared food should be ruled out. there is no scientific evidence that such ingredients are harmful, even when they are present in extremely small amounts in herbal and spice mixtures and are consumed in prepared foods. the possible consequence of setting maximum levels on the basis of biologically active principles might be that some traditional products that have been on the european market for decades would disappear from it and food manufacturers would abandon herbs and use flavourings instead. i speak for almost all the members of the committee on the environment when i say that the question of bioactive substances must be dealt with in a complex, interrelated way. i propose that the resolution adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment be supported by the members in plenary. in that case, part b of annex iii would remain in the regulation but would be empty until, for a scientifically justified reason within the framework of its powers, the commission has commissioned an appropriate study to calculate the actual risks to human health on the basis of the average daily consumption of such food. in the additives regulation, we support the view that inclusion in the list of permitted substances is conditional upon a positive opinion from the european food safety authority (efsa), but not as the only criterion. toxicological integrity does not explain the usefulness of additives in the light of the european union's efforts to educate people about healthy eating habits. the reasonable technological interest is a concept that we support in light of this as a tool for political interpretation of border problems. it makes sense, for example, to prevent consumers from being misled about the value of food additives when they do not actually have it. our group also supports a unified and centralised procedure for the approval of new additives, flavourings and enzymes, provided that it is made more efficient, faster and more transparent. we had the concerns we expressed in the debate in the committee on the environment, but after we have summed up the pros and cons of the new proposal, we believe that comitology with the right of inquiry gives parliament the opportunity to supplement the technical aspects of the approval of additives with certain political criteria which it considers important from the point of view of long-term consumer protection. in conclusion, i would like to warmly thank the rapporteurs of the other regulations that make up the new legislative package for their excellent cooperation and very productive exchange of views.
when dealing with the internal market in gas and electricity, the issue of the separation between the transmission network and generation activities is one of the key issues. among the models of separation presented, ownership separation has so far proved to be the most effective. that doesn't mean we can't be critical of him, quite the opposite. i think there are a number of factors that need to be addressed in this process. let me highlight just a few of them. first of all, i would like to stress that we need to clearly define the responsibilities of the supervisory authorities. in doing so, we must be aware that the separation of ownership means the integration of the eu's internal market. this integration requires upgrading the existing supervisory authorities. the latter must be developed and upgraded, whether by national regulators or by new models such as iso+. the competences and powers of national supervisory authorities in the eu need to be more uniform, while at the same time ensuring that cross-border activities are properly supervised. i would also like to stress the fact that we must take account of our heavy dependence on imports in the shaping of the internal market for gas and electricity and in the process of ownership unbundling. if the internal market is to be a success, we must speak with one voice to third countries. the process therefore requires the simultaneous formulation of a common european external policy, or at least a common european external energy policy. we must also take into account the principle of reciprocity. finally, i would like to emphasise solidarity as one of the fundamental values of the european union. we must design the internal market in such a way that we protect the most vulnerable users at the same time. this can be done in a neutral way that does not jeopardise european competitiveness. i support the text with this content in the report and at the same time congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work.
it is right (...) to prevent terrorism and in this i fully support mr frattini and the commission's actions. but it's also right that i answer the question of why this is happening to us and who is the one who threatens us. the commission last year suggested that we not use terms like islamic jihadism and so on, but, quote, that these are "terrorists who use religion for their activities". i think it's crucial that we have a clear understanding that phenomena should be called by their proper name. and the real name for me is jihadist terrorism, because these people are fundamentalists who share a hatred for a democratic pluralist society. their ideology is diametrically opposed to classical democracies, their goal is to create a caliphate, and jihadism is often referred to as a religion that competes with other religions, as an ideology that seeks its place in the world, but this is wrong. jihadism is not economically inspired and is not capable of competing with others, but is an ideology whose goal is the destruction of other ideologies. the european parliament, the european institutions, should therefore create the conditions, perhaps an action plan, for the spread of democracy in the world and for the strengthening of economic and political cooperation with the islamic countries. there are democratic forces in the islamic world that are capable of confronting others. the eu has a long-standing commitment to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the eu is committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is also necessary to create conditions for confronting all the different interpretations and to open discussions, forums and websites to free-thinking muslims. the european public also needs to be told more about terrorism. finally, it is also important to recognise that in the fight against terrorism the european union must be aware of its values and defend them without fear or tact.
thank you very much, mr. president. last week, several slovenian provinces were severely affected by a natural disaster, a flood of the kind we do not remember. six people lost their lives, and the damage was estimated at least at 200 million euros. in the affected areas, people have been working to rebuild. the government is helping and many volunteers are helping, but the scale of the damage is such that we can rightly count on the solidarity of the european union. i am pleased that the european commission has already announced due diligence on aid. thank you very much for your attention.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i have already pointed out on several occasions the problems of the slovenian minority in italy and austria, and this time i welcome the activities of the italian government in the last year aimed at implementing the law on the protection of the slovenian minority: the drawing up of a list of thirty-two municipalities in the friuli-venezia giulia region and support for the construction of a slovenian school in špetra and bene slovenija. these measures will facilitate the life of the slovenian minority in italy and meet at least part of its rights and needs. i also call on the austrian government and my austrian colleagues in the european parliament to do everything possible to ensure that austria too will implement article 7 of the austrian constitution in full as soon as possible. i would like to draw particular attention to the third paragraph, which guarantees the slovenian minority the right to bilingual topographical signs in principle. this will contribute to cohesion and to even better relations between countries and also within the european union.
commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. renewable energy sources address two major challenges: firstly, the security of energy supply, as they provide diversity and reduce import dependency, and secondly, climate change, as they do not cause direct greenhouse gas emissions. renewable energy has been a hot topic in europe for some time: renewable energy is a topic that raises political points. their importance for further social development is supported by politicians, economists, scientists, energy professionals and citizens who are not otherwise professionally involved in either the energy or environmental fields. but the share of renewables in the overall energy mix is only slowly increasing. why would you do that? are we too politically engaged? i think not, as renewables account for a large proportion of european energy legislation. however, i believe that in establishing the appropriate framework, we have emphasised the technical and control aspect and neglected the economic aspect and the overall assessment. i believe that renewable energy cannot be treated in isolation. we need to evaluate their strengths and weaknesses along with other energy sources. we need to take into account their contribution to the diversity of the energy mix, to the security of energy supply, to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to the creation of a knowledge-based society. we need to evaluate the additional research and development needed. our current technical approach must be supplemented by a macroeconomic assessment. in fact, when deciding on a particular investment, an important factor is how much financial investment is required to release, for example, one tonne of carbon into the environment. until we build on our traditional approach to policy-making with a proper comparative cost analysis, we will not achieve the desired results in energy and environmental policy-making. in this case, in the case of a comprehensive analysis, the barriers between the different energy sources will be broken down, because only a diverse, sustainable energy mix will count.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. respected our mandate began with the wim kok report. his message was clear. we, we are responsible for directing the lisbon strategy towards the most important objectives and giving it the appropriate content. we have worked together to design the seventh framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme. we have thus given a european dimension to research and entrepreneurship. but we wondered if that was enough to boost european innovation. we knew that there was a shortage of a few hundred thousand engineers and researchers in europe, and we knew that innovation as such could not be stimulated by direct incentives and projects alone. we also lacked the connection to universities, so we had to worry about human resources. this shortfall shall be covered by the eit. its added value is the link between the research space and the academic and business worlds. research and academic groups becoming members of the eit knowledge and innovation community will be required to demonstrate their excellence. the eit label, which will be available for use by participants, will therefore also be an external quality mark of the group. i expect the participants to use this label with appreciation as a sign of their quality. at the same time, the eit logo should also help potential economic actors. they must provide a critical mass of suitably trained staff while responding to short- and long-term problems through research and development projects. the eit label could facilitate the selection of partners or implementers of education and research projects. ensuring adequate funding for the eit has been a key issue in the negotiations so far. i believe that we will be able to secure adequate public funding, but this is only a small part. it will soon be the turn of the economy, the private sector, to respond to globalization as we have done.
the rapporteur. today i am here as a reporter, but at the same time as a liberal democrat, as a slovenian, as a former yugoslav and as a european. just 15 years ago, my country of birth was torn apart by a series of bloody wars that lasted nearly a decade. today, many countries in the region, including serbia, are still dealing with the devastating effects of the conflict. for these fragile and young democracies, membership of the european union is a powerful incentive to further democratisation. the european union, which these countries want to join as soon as possible, is based on common values and standards. one of the most important is the rule of law. in the case of the balkan countries, it is not just about reforms of the judicial system but also about full cooperation with the international court of justice in the hague. serbia has so far failed to honour its domestic and international duty to arrest four remaining fugitive war crime indictees, including mladić and karadžić, who stand accused of orchestrating the slaughter of nearly 8 000 civilians in srebrenica. anyone who kills a single human being commits a crime, but those who commit genocide represent an international and political challenge. i visited srebrenica before preparing this report. i believe in serbian self-respect. that's why i insist that the serbian state has to prove it is cooperating with the icty. in may, a new pro-european government took office, with icty cooperation as one of its key objectives. that is a development which i warmly welcome. i also welcome the fact that the government moved against, arrested and delivered two of the six most wanted fugitives, tolimir and djordjevic. those arrests demonstrate that serbia is able to locate and arrest the remaining war fugitives. as chief prosecutor del ponte has stated, the principal obstacle is not ability, but rather translating ability into tangible results. this is why the eu cannot afford to waive its conditionality at this crucial juncture. as the tensions surrounding kosovo's future status mount, it would be wrong to think that caving in on eu conditionality and bending over backwards to make concessions to belgrade will serve either the eu or serbia in the long run. turning a blind eye to war criminals may suit modern day realpolitik, but it will not contribute to long-term peace or regional stability. it is often repeated that serbia is the key to stability in the region, but politicians in belgrade are wrong to assume that this will mean preferential treatment for serbia. serbia would do well to use its abundant talents and potential to act as an example to its neighbours in the region, rather than leaving them to languish because of serbian recalcitrance. it is true that the eu will not be complete until the balkans are part of the union, but this cannot be at any price, and certainly not at the price of undermining international law and ignoring fundamental european values. the citizens of serbia are entitled to know the truth about the recent policies of war committed in their name. it is also for this reason that i support the recent initiative by the special prosecutor to uncover the political motives behind the assassination of prime minister djindjić. it is for that reason too that i regret the leniency of the sentences handed down by the serbian war crimes court to four members of the scorpions for the execution of six muslims from srebrenica. there is tremendous economic and cultural potential in serbia, and a vast area of talented individuals in all spheres of life. the new government has proved itself to have a number of dynamic and ambitious ministers. there is no doubt that serbia possesses the administrative and institutional capacity to deal professionally with further eu membership negotiations. progress has been made in a number of areas in recent months, for example in the conclusion of the technical talks on the saa negotiations, ratification of the kyoto protocol, cefta and the election of an ombudsman, a governor of the bank of serbia, a commissioner for public information and the members of the council of the state audit institution. disappointingly, however, there has been little tangible progress on the nomination of judges to the constitutional court. in addition, the public denigration of civil society actors who criticize the government or try to draw attention to sensitive issues, such as war crimes, continues. in this regard, i condemn the recent events in novi sad, where a neo-nazi organisation attacked a peaceful gathering of individuals who had gathered for an anti-fascist demonstration. it is imperative that the relevant authorities find the perpetrators and thoroughly investigate the crime. at the same time, i recognise that the eu's strict visa regime, which prevents ordinary serbs from meeting with their counterparts in the european union, acts as a brake on serbia's democratic progress, and contributes to xenophobia and nationalism. i welcome the agreements which have been negotiated. while these mark an important first step, the ultimate goal must be to liberalise travel for all citizens of the region. do you know that only one tenth of serbs possess a passport? we have to give something concrete to the rest of the population. i urge the council to ensure that the agreements enter into force at the beginning of next year, as well as calling on the council also to establish a concrete roadmap for visa liberalisation. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my assistants, fellow members, the foreign affairs committee secretariat, the political groups, the commission, the serbian mission to the eu and the serbian office for european integration. in concluding my intervention, i would like to add a short personal note. as one of the very few meps born in the western balkans, i am very proud to have worked as rapporteur. my country, slovenia, became an eu member not because it was easy, but because it was difficult. we managed, just like serbian politicians, intellectuals and business people will also manage, when they decide to do so. i call on serbia and the serbian people to wake up now, to start helping themselves, to help their neighbours, to help the entire region and to join us. do it now. you are strong enough. together we will manage.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have an oral amendment to paragraph 29, because there is something that has to be deleted. in the english version, the words ‘both entities of’ have to be deleted. otherwise, the split vote would not make sense. this has been agreed by the ppe-de group.
the importance of physical activity for the development and health of young people is well known. at the same time, we know that today's lifestyle means that many children spend a lot of time indoors and at computers. the report by pala schmitt is therefore of great importance, as it is intended to encourage the member states and all of us to rethink the role of sport in education. i would like to draw attention to two aspects which are also mentioned in passing in this report. first, the importance of sports education for children with special needs. the tendency is to integrate them into mainstream schools in as large a number as possible. however, due to the different needs of these children and adolescents, it is not always possible to provide adequate equipment and treatment in regular schools. on the other hand, these children need special attention and physical activity, as, for example, children with reduced mobility spend a lot of time in a sitting position and therefore need more opportunities to move. therefore, when children are enrolled in regular school, they should also be provided with appropriate conditions for their adapted physical activity. the second aspect i would like to highlight is the role of sports clubs or sports coaches in the development of young people. it is not only athletic achievements that are important, but also health and youth work, to which coaches in clubs should pay equal attention. parents want to entrust their children to someone who will not only strive for the best possible athletic achievement but who will also take care of their health and who will be a good teacher, a good role model in all areas. it's the only way to talk about the positive role of sport in a young person's life.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her report. nuclear energy is an important component of a european energy policy mix, and today we are witnessing a renewed interest in nuclear energy, both at european and international level. the euratom supply agency has, during its more than 45 years of existence, helped to ensure the supply of nuclear fuels for the benefit of community users. the supply agency is a body which was established by the euratom treaty, meaning it stems directly from a primary law instrument. it aims at the long-term security of supply through reasonable diversification of supply sources for nuclear fuels. equal access to sources of supply is an important element of the euratom treaty, and this is ensured by the supply agency. today, the supply agency operates on statutes from 1958, when the community consisted of six member states. the enlargement of the european union calls for the modernisation of these statutes. this is the purpose of our proposal; this is also why the supply agency cannot be considered a new agency within the meaning of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the european commission. the european parliament has long called for the role of the agency to be revived and for the powers contained in the euratom treaty to be used in full. i would, in particular, mention the maldeikis report on the 50th anniversary of the euratom treaty, which this house adopted earlier this year. i am pleased to say that the commission welcomes most of the amendments proposed. i share your view that the role of the advisory committee needs to be strengthened. i also agree that it should contribute more to the preparation of the market surveys of the agency. in conclusion, i welcome the support that the european parliament is giving in order to reinforce the role of the euratom supply agency. i look forward to the discussion.
the rapporteur. the role of nuclear energy is becoming increasingly visible, not only in europe but also globally. the security of supply, the competitiveness of energy markets and the minimisation of the environmental impact of energy production and consumption are the cornerstones of the european union's energy policy. in addition, sustainable energy development also has a positive impact on technological development, economic growth and employment. all of this is in pursuit of the objectives of the lisbon strategy. a balanced energy mix is one of the prerequisites for sustainable development, combating global warming and climate change, reducing import dependency and ensuring a secure energy supply. nuclear energy is also an integral part of this in the european union. and that is why we need to ensure a safe and reliable supply of nuclear materials and competitive, well-functioning energy markets that we can trust. for this reason, the euratom supply agency was established. in the light of the changed circumstances on global energy markets, its role should be further strengthened. i also agree with the commission that the enlargement of the european union to 27 member states and the change in the rules for funding agencies also require a new, modernised and improved statute for the euratom supply agency. i also stressed the increased role of the agency in my report. we need a strong body that, in addition to its core role of monitoring the supply and demand of nuclear materials and services, also ensures the regular conduct of studies on market risks and on the long-term price movements in the nuclear materials market. it must also have control over the conclusion of long-term contracts for nuclear fuel, provide a framework for investment and the like. to ensure that all these tasks are carried out successfully, i have proposed a greater role for the advisory committee, which i see as a body of experts. its wide range of expertise allows it to provide unique support to the agency in the tasks assigned to it by the euratom treaty. i therefore believe that the number of members of the advisory committee should be increased, especially in a professional sense. i believe that the member states which are engaged in nuclear fuel cycle activities and which also contribute the most resources to it should have an additional member on the advisory committee. in order to ensure the coherence of the work of the committee and to enable it to develop its expertise at a high level, i propose the establishment of a bureau or presidency, and that this presidency should be composed of a president, two vice-presidents and two advisers. coordination can only be ensured by a simple composition and a clearly defined role for the chair of the advisory board, which is to act as a liaison between the advisory board and the director-general of the agency. it shall coordinate the activities of the advisory committee, in particular those relating to the preparation, evaluation and review of its reports and the dissemination of expertise. without investing in knowledge and human resources, we will have little chance of achieving the objectives of a competitive and technologically advanced europe. i would also like to stress the need for transparency, which is largely reflected in the way the agency reports on its work. i believe that the european parliament should also be informed of any major project of the agency. however, its role in the budgetary procedure of the agency needs to be more clearly defined. in addition to the european parliament, the annual report on the work of the agency, the results of studies and other relevant texts should also be sent to the council, the court of auditors and the member states. only through a good flow of information and the development of good practices can we improve the functioning of the agency. the way in which the agency is financed, which has been quite complex and unclear due to its specific nature, can also contribute to transparency. i want to simplify this and that is why i support the work of the agency in the way that it is normally done by other european agencies. nuclear power is part of the energy mix and i want it to operate under the same conditions as other energy sources. in order to make the situation simpler, more transparent and in line with the provisions of the euratom treaty, i propose a separate budget line for the supply agency, which will be separate from the commission services budget and where administrative costs will be clearly separated from the costs of the agency's operation. this would give the european parliament, as the branch of the budgetary authority, control over the agency's budget, thus further contributing to a more transparent and democratic europe. whether we agree with the growing role of nuclear power or not, its presence is a present reality. we certainly want secure supplies and functioning markets, which can only be ensured by a long-term vision and a strong body with sufficient powers and democratic control. the new statute of the euratom supply agency aims to achieve these objectives. finally, i would like to thank the commission for its cooperation in answering some rather difficult questions on the statute, and i would also like to thank the members of the itre committee for their constructive cooperation in the preparation and adoption of the report. i also invite you to support the vote in plenary and look forward to the comments of my colleagues.
they say you know your friends by accident. a region that has been hit by a strong or even catastrophic earthquake certainly needs the european union's quick and effective assistance, especially when the state cannot provide it fully. given the frequency of earthquakes in europe, the number of victims and the material damage, it is simply incredible that the funds from the solidarity fund were used only once to help earthquake victims. the catastrophic fire in greece has already shown that the european union is not well organised for such disasters. i agree with the proposal that we need to invest more in research to better monitor earthquake risk and funds are already provided for this purpose in the seventh framework research programme. it is also wise to cooperate with countries that already have a great deal of knowledge and experience in this field. a strategic earthquake response plan, rapid response, coordinated rescue and cross-border assistance can save many lives. of course, precautions can also prevent many things. who can imagine brussels without the grand place or paris without the eiffel tower or london without the royal palace? each country and region has its own pearls, cultural heritage, which must be protected as much as possible from earthquakes. it is also necessary to strictly observe the standards for earthquake-resistant construction, especially in areas with a high level of seismic activity.
the european union is a world leader in tackling climate change and developing new environmentally friendly technologies. but how much longer? the need to reduce the human impact on the natural environment is becoming increasingly evident in many countries of the world. this is followed by strategies, plans and actions. this is true even in countries where, until recently, environmental concerns were not a priority. let me just take the example of china, which was recently visited by a delegation from the interim committee on climate change and was briefed on the situation there. although china, as a developing country under the kyoto protocol, is not required to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, it is aware of the problem of global warming and has already started to act. it adopted a national programme on climate change response, setting itself a number of ambitious targets. all of this shows that europe must not rest on its laurels if it is to maintain its global influence. i therefore invite the delegation in bali to represent europe's position on the fight against global warming appropriately and with a single voice. in my view, the only way to reduce warming sufficiently is to establish a global carbon market. price, or money, is a highly effective means of achieving goals in human society. but in pursuing the global action agreement, we must not forget about our own objectives. we need to develop our policies steadily and continue to innovate in the energy, transport and other sectors that cause greenhouse gas emissions. only by implementing it effectively and successfully at home will we be able to succeed in negotiating and cooperating with third countries. i wish the delegation in bali every success in its visit and in representing the views expressed in our resolution.
today we have signed the charter of human rights of the european union, expressing our commitment to respect for human dignity, the values of democracy and the rule of law. what has been the basis for the european union's successful growth internally is also our starting point for developing relations with partners around the world. the european union as a whole wants closer and more stable cooperation with the countries of latin america and their regional links. we are convinced, taking into account the specificities and genuine interests of the countries of latin america, that strategic and long-term relations can only be built in this way and with those countries with which we can share the same fundamental values and principles. political developments in venezuela have recently deviated from this direction. in doing so, it calls into question the dynamics and scope of future cooperation between latin america and the european union as well as the dynamics of integration within latin america itself. the constitutional referendum is polarizing venezuela because the new proposals concentrate political power and do not lead to an open ideological and democratic society. i believe in a welfare state, not a socialist one, because it excludes those who think differently.
i'd like to update you on the situation on the croatian-slovenian border. the croatian side re-establishes the practice of taking steps in the nature as a way of resolving open border issues with slovenia. first, the croats started selling land in the disputed territory, on the left bank of the dragonja, then they built a bridge on the disputed territory on hotiza. recently, the snow forest has been slowly moving its boundaries, and its foresters have begun to cut down trees. in razkriž, however, they quietly called for a new border control building without the croatian foreign ministry having previously informed the slovenian side of its intention, although it should have done so in accordance with the agreements reached; nor did they inform the slovenian landowners where they intend to build the crossing. despite slovenia's support in principle for croatia's accession to the eu, croatia should adhere to the agreements reached between the countries if it wants to justify its status as a credible candidate for eu membership.
i support the population and housing census ordinance. the data collected under this regulation will allow us to better assess the socio-economic conditions in which the population of the european union lives at regional, national and european union level. in addition, this data will allow a more accurate assessment of the effectiveness of the implementation of regional policy and of the progress made towards achieving regional cohesion, for which the union is devoting increasing resources. in order to achieve the desired objectives, the regulation must ensure two things: the volume of data to be collected under the regulation must not be excessive, and the data collected must be of high quality and comparable. data that do not create the necessary added value and only increase administration and costs should be excluded from the collection. these are the templates found in annexes 1.3 and 2.3 and are to be reported by member states on a voluntary basis. at the same time, we must be careful not to encroach too much on the privacy of european union citizens. nor should we discriminate against members of a particular gender when collecting. the comparability of basic data between member states and the reliability of data collected from the censuses are necessary for the evaluation of european policies and for the comparison of the results of national policies at european level. therefore, a regulation should ensure that all member states use the same method and criteria for collecting data.
on behalf of the alde group. more than a hundred years ago, montenegro was a kingdom on europe's political map. it was recognized and established both culturally and politically. a part of the coast, the bay of kotor, was even part of austria-hungary and at that time, together with today's herzegovina, also represented an outlet to the sea. montenegro was once part of modern europe and is now preparing to become a full-fledged member of the european union. since becoming a new european country in may 2006, montenegro has made encouraging progress in meeting the european agenda. he deserves our sincere congratulations on the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement and the adoption of the new constitution in october. podgorica also deserves recognition for its good cooperation with the hague tribunal and for its positive role and contribution to the long-term stability of the region. but today, our european union is different, for in this very hall, a few hours ago, we witnessed a remarkable historic event with the signing of the charter of fundamental rights. the citizens of montenegro also deserve more democracy, more respect, more diversity and more legal security. the main challenges facing this young country are linked to the fight against organised crime and corruption, where more should and could be done. i call on the competent authorities to be more proactive in their fight against corruption, organised crime and trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs. i welcome the strong legislative framework in this respect. however, i would stress that the implementation of legislation in practice is a process that also requires sufficient administrative and political resources. i remain seriously concerned about the lack of transparency and political culture in both political and economic structures. this is what is holding back montenegro from developing a democratic society and a free market. montenegro needs to do more in the area of media freedom, pluralism and professionalism. he has to fully implement the reforms adopted and ensure the independence of radio and television of montenegro. i regret that there are still no results of the investigation into the murder of journalist duško jovanović, who was publishing a series of articles on montenegrin organized crime at the time. journalists and civil society have an important role to play in the development of democracies, especially when they draw attention to sensitive social issues. i therefore call on the government to be more active in addressing these problems, to involve and consult civil society and to provide them with better conditions for their activities.
i am pleased to support the agreement to conclude the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and montenegro, which is one of the important positive developments in recent months in south-east europe. this agreement constitutes a recognition of the work done by montenegro, while at the same time providing a contractual commitment to continue working towards full membership in the spirit of the thessaloniki perspective. the agreement clearly sets out key tasks in the political, economic and other fields. in this context, i welcome the clear approach of the agreement to development tasks in the fields of tourism, environmental protection, transport and energy. all these tasks are closely interlinked and it is therefore important that montenegro establishes or ensures an administrative reorganisation that will allow it to ensure a rapid development dynamic and fulfil the conditions for acquiring candidate status. i really want montenegro to succeed in this because the implementation that was emphasised by the speakers before me depends on it. i am confident that the european union, under the slovenian presidency, will be attentive to any progress made by montenegro in implementing its treaty commitments. the progress of montenegro is of course in the interest of south-east europe in particular and, therefore, of the european union as a whole.
