mr president, as a member of the committee on the lisbon strategy and as the alde group coordinator in the committee on industry, research and energy, i have three wishes at the start of the new year. first, with regard to research and innovation: put pressure on developing the technical platforms to provide european industry with the opportunities that they can have with this. second, use the lisbon agenda to combine economic, social and environmental development and start to create a truly european green industrial policy, because that is one way of competing with the americans. third, with regard to energy: develop a new strategy on production, distribution and consumption of energy. in the negotiations with russia, we have to build on reciprocity, which is lacking. the rule of law, discussion and transparency are also lacking. finally, the baltic gas pipeline has to be judged according to swedish environmental rules. furthermore, it is totally unacceptable to have russian forces defending a pipeline through the territories of member states.
mr president, the biggest threat to european welfare societies is unemployment. we cannot fight unemployment with more regulations and more legislation, because the problem of unemployment today is not the lack of social regulations in europe or the lack of legislation. the problem is that we have a lack of employers. the problem is that we have a lack of competitiveness, investments and innovations. frau bundeskanzlerin, bitte entschuldigen sie mein deutsch. aber das problem in europa ist nicht nur, dass wir arbeitslosigkeit haben, sondern auch „unternehmens-“ und „unternehmerlosigkeit“. ich weiß, dass diese wörter in der deutschen sprache nicht existieren.... and not in swedish or english, either – and maybe that is the problem. i would urge you to launch an initiative for deregulation and better regulation. not all deregulation is better regulation, but we can achieve better regulation by deregulation. that is the way to fight unemployment, mr schulz, not by more regulation. i wish you all good luck.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good and comprehensive report. i especially like the way you bring up the security companies and the emerging lego nectar industry. if you, the people in the stands, were to read the eu arms export regulations, you would find that they are fantastic. these rules require respect for human rights and international agreements. weapons must not be exported to countries where social development is threatened. arms exports are only allowed to countries where stability prevails. but what is reality? the annual report on arms exports is hypocrisy. fourteen eu countries export arms to israel, 12 to indonesia, and the rest to the middle east. are there examples of countries enjoying peace, stability and security? five countries are exporting arms to saudi arabia. is this a country with human rights? saudi arabia, a country where women have not the slightest opportunity for political influence! criterion 8 of the code of conduct states that arms exports must not undermine the social and economic development of the recipient country. but half of africa is on this list of countries to which we export weapons! it is time we started applying this code of conduct to arms exports. i support amendments nos 3 and 4. lisbon and development cannot mean more arms production. we shall not have an arms export agency when it leads to these results!
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. more and more citizens are driving on foreign roads in europe. these are professional drivers, bus drivers, families on european holidays and border commuters. why would these citizens tolerate poor road safety in any of the countries they drive in? some 40 000 people die each year on eu roads. this is a tragedy that is constantly happening. families are affected. it's also a gigantic waste of resources. imagine the health care we could get if we halved the number of people dying on the roads! the problem is that in practice the countries of europe value road safety very differently and the differences between the member states with low road safety and those with high road safety continue to increase. but i do not think that the citizens of europe will accept this in the long run. we citizens will demand safe roads throughout europe. we will demand that the police stop drunk driving, regardless of nationality. we will demand speed limits throughout europe and that the major cities have public transport so that we can get around without cars. we will require the ability to travel safely by bicycle in urban areas. the european parliament must respond to these citizens' demands and put pressure on the european commission and the member states. but the member states are happy to act on a national basis. you talk about the principle of proximity, which unfortunately sometimes involves paralysis. road safety must be seen as a shared responsibility between the member states and the eu. we are now seeing a decline in the number of road deaths in europe, but unfortunately it is too slow. urgent action is now needed if we are to meet the target of halving the number of deaths by 2010. member states must ensure that existing legislation is complied with and that penalties are imposed, even if the rules of another eu country are breached. the main issues are safety belt legislation, speed limits and the banning of alcohol and drugs in traffic. this would directly reduce the number of road deaths drastically. it is important to involve the new member states in road safety work. the commission should promote so-called twinning projects between new and old member states and ensure that the new member states participate in commission expert groups. sharing good examples is vital. mr president, i would like to thank you. alcohol on the roads is a problem in the eu, causing up to 10 000 deaths a year. the number of checks varies between countries. we therefore need a common eu-wide alcohol limit of 0.5 per mille, with the possibility of lowering it. but we cannot have a limit of 0.0 per million, which the majority of the committee has decided on. such a limit is measurable and would therefore not be maintainable. that point must therefore be removed from the report. we also need to improve driver training and should therefore certify driving instructors in the eu. it is also important to continue the ecall system so that we can have quick calls to the accident scene. more countries need to make declarations of intent on this. the transport industry must also act, and here the car rental companies have a major role to play, as they buy new cars every year. if they only bought safe cars, it would improve the eu's transport fleet substantially. the transport industry has the greatest potential to influence the vehicles. if they design safe vehicles and make safety equipment standard, it will be cheaper for consumers and it will save lives. an example is alcohol locks that prevent drunk drivers from driving. these locks have dropped in price significantly since the market started to pick up. we should start to see the vehicle as a mobile workplace when employees are driving for work and then the occupational health and safety legislation should also apply in the vehicle. it would improve road safety. we must therefore take a holistic view of road safety in europe. it is about making it easier for road users to drive safely, but also about training drivers. all stakeholders must take responsibility, a shared responsibility, if we are to succeed in achieving our objectives. this is my last debate in the european parliament. i will leave office on 1 february and i would like to thank all my colleagues for the very good cooperation they have shown over the years and also with this report. i would also like to thank all the staff of the european parliament who have always made our work easier. i also thank all the others, none mentioned and none forgotten, with whom i have worked during my years in parliament.
for the gue/ngl group. thank you, madam president! my warmest congratulations on your new assignment as vice president! i'm very happy for you! the report in question rightly notes that there is still an imbalance between women and men in all areas of society. the evaluation of how the committees have so far lived up to parliament's decision that the gender perspective should always permeate our work shows, not surprisingly, that there is still a tremendous amount of work to be done before we can say that the gender perspective is truly integrated into our work. this is not news. many of us experience the lack of equality and equal treatment between men and women in our work on a daily basis. this is not unique to the european parliament. we must recognize that economic and political power, whether we are talking about parliamentary work or about the way society generally works, is still in practice the domain of one sex, that is, men. although we often talk about the importance of gender equality, it is apparently easier to talk about it than to put it into practice. we need different instruments to implement and work on gender equality issues. education and knowledge are such instruments. we need to clarify the power structures in order to have an impact. we therefore look forward to the work of the institute for gender equality, which can provide us with instruments such as gender-disaggregated statistics and knowledge dissemination, among others. another important tool in the field of gender equality is education. it is important that we allow officials to continue with training on gender mainstreaming. but it is equally important that members of the european parliament also receive training in gender equality. it is not that we, the elected representatives, have sufficient knowledge of gender equality and gender mainstreaming in any obvious way. but we can do something about that. we can vote in favour of a proposal in the report that gender equality training should be organised for all members for the next term. i would like to see this in the report. thank you, sir.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the committee on women's rights and anna záborská for an excellent initiative and report. but after this debate, i regret to say that the men who have participated have expressed dinosaur views. it's sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, sad, what is that much has already been said in this debate and i would like to devote my time to a few questions of principle. parliament will never have integrated committees, half-women committee chairs or speakers until there are half-women in the european parliament. i speak from experience. in sweden, it was only in 1994 that we got half of the women in politics and the parliament that we were able to make the big reforms. many women in european parliament committees have difficulty combining parliamentary work and family roles. as long as parliament does not offer parents the possibility of staying at home with parental insurance and receiving compensation and a substitute, we have a gender equality problem. it is a strength of the report that it both talks about and proposes measures at the level of officials and for us members of parliament, but in the next report i would like to see more targets and means for the employees. and i call for a debate on how and when we will have half the women in parliament.
in writing. mutual principles must be respected and the ability to carry passengers across national borders is important. however, it is up to the member states to decide whether to privatise their national rail services. privatized railways that are not integrated with the national railway network have often been poorly functioning and often resulted in increased costs for taxpayers (for example in the uk). i therefore support the council's common position, which is less far-reaching, and therefore vote against parliament's amendment.
in writing. passengers should have good rights, but this is too much regulation at eu level. the proposal is at a level which is far below the current swedish compensation law. the attempt by parliament to include strictly local or national transport in addition to international transport, where there is a logic in the eu's intervention, is unnecessary over-regulation. in addition, these rules risk putting downward pressure on swedish compensation conditions and could impair the ability of passengers to take a taxi or bus when the train is delayed.
in writing. the wallis report, a6 - 481/06, contains proposals on the choice of law in cases of invasion of privacy and protection of personality which provide that the case should be decided in the country where the damage occurred. we are voting against these proposals because they would imply restrictions on swedish freedom of expression and press legislation by allowing, for example, a swedish newspaper to be sued in other countries on the basis of laws different from those of the country where the newspaper is published.
in writing. the rome ii report which the european parliament voted for today contains two texts which are contrary to the swedish press freedom legislation. unfortunately, the amendments containing the texts in question could not be voted against because they were part of a larger block. i voted in favour of the report, but i reserve my vote against amendments nos 9 and 19, paragraph 7a.
in writing. the monitoring of arms exports shall be carried out by the respective member states through their national legislation and cooperation within the framework of the united nations. i am firmly opposed to the plans to establish a possible eu arms export control agency. the report is about creating a binding code of conduct for the export of war material within the eu framework. it is proposed that a new eu body be set up to control member states' exports. whatever the view on principle, there is reason to question whether this leads to a more restrictive policy, which is the aim. at the same time, the european defence agency is working to further coordinate and liberalise the export policies of the member states. i believe that the un, given its experience, knowledge and global reach, is best placed to drive global disarmament and ensure that the best possible code of conduct is adhered to.
in writing. i am voting against this report because i think it is based on a wrong reasoning about which political level is responsible for road safety. junilista believes that the member states have the primary political responsibility for the legislative measures to be taken to improve road safety. increased road safety can be achieved by member states adopting the strategies that have proven successful in different eu countries. the views of the european parliament are laudable, but they add very little to the picture. the report contains a number of proposals which do not take sufficient account of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. these include the proposal to provide continuous training in road safety for children aged 3-18 through a specific eu action plan, to launch information campaigns against driver fatigue in the member states and to investigate the consequences of driver fatigue in traffic.
in writing. speed limits are a national concern, which depends on many factors and should therefore be determined at national level. as much as i would like to rule that the germans should not have their autobahn for environmental or safety reasons, it would be counterproductive to impose it on them from the outside. it would instead weaken the political forces in germany which are fighting for the same thing. a level of 0.5 per thousand is too high and still not acceptable. the requirement for traffic lights is as stupid to decide at eu level as forcing the uk to introduce right-hand traffic. if you save 5,000 lives, it should be easy to push through on a national level. i would, however, vote in favour of calling on the member states to prevent dangerous driving behaviour by lorries, because that would respect the rights of national parliaments. it is also an environmental benefit not to allow trucks to compete with trains by using poor safety.
mr president, we have two tasks to fulfil: one is to reduce co2 emissions and the other is to ensure that we can meet the changes that follow climate change. they both require that we have the resources for investment, that we have the opportunities for growth and the opportunities to take care of the environment. limits and goals are important in this, but it is just as important to take action that is compatible with economic growth and resources for investments in order to safeguard what we must do. sometimes we can look at the more practical and realistic actions. i shall mention only two. long-truck combinations are one of the more substantial ways of reducing co2 emissions regarding road transport. commissioner, president-in-office: you can do something about that as a practical action that will have a substantial result. the second task concerns energy policy. phasing out nuclear power in the way and at a pace that is being planned in today’s europe is a secure way of getting increased co2 emissions. if we succeed in launching more renewable energy sources, then the phasing-out of nuclear power will reduce the gains and maybe we will get into minus with increased co2 emissions. i should like the german presidency to take the lead in a new policy. you should do that not in order to solve the greenhouse effect, as some say, but in order not to make things worse. we must at least keep the same share of energy coming from nuclear power that we have today in order not to increase co2 emissions. we need high-tech, not low-tech; we need more trade, not less trade; we need more investments, not less investments and we need more growth, not less growth. the challenge is to combine those things, and i look forward to your reply on my two certain tasks, however politically uncomfortable it might be for you.
mr president, first of all i would like to agree with mrs doyle that the problem that we are facing is not environmental. it affects all sectors of society and we have to take a systematic and comprehensive approach. to mr reul i would like to say that i think we have to realise that parallel to climate change, we are also affected by the depletion of fisheries, huge and rapid deforestation, and water scarcity in many parts of the world. we have to face the fact that the lifestyles that we have developed in a world with 8 to 9 billion people goes beyond the carrying capacity of the globe, and that is why we have to take a systematic approach that brings us back onto a normal, sustainable path. the reason i asked to speak is primarily that i am very disappointed with one aspect of the energy and climate package from the commission. you talk, commissioner, in that package, about an energy partnership with africa. that is good. but why not the same for china and india? i know there are technology agreements, but there is very little money to back them up. in the coming five to ten years, emissions from these countries because of expanding energy systems will totally overwhelm us unless we help them to do the right things now. some people say ‘let china pay’. but then we disregard the historic responsibility we have for all the emissions in the past and we also disregard the fact that the chinese need skilled people; they need technology to make it happen; they need to invest in clean technology. so my question to you and to the minister is, why do you not think big? why do you not establish a partnership with china and india and beef it up with financial resources so that we can really do this together aggressively? otherwise i think what we are doing here will be rather marginal in the years to come. we have to have this dual approach, and i feel the omission of this in your energy package is conspicuous. (applause)
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am very pleased that we are now drawing attention to this major problem affecting so many people, not only in europe but also in much of the rest of the world. i was the rapporteur on this issue for the committee on equality and i would have liked to see more work on the report from a more equal perspective. i think it is important that parliament gives the commission the task of further developing its gender-based approach to obesity and overweight, diet and exercise, particularly in terms of data collection and dissemination of best practice. we also need to develop a communication strategy for the whole community. we must not forget that women and men are different. women's obesity should be investigated more closely, especially when we know that there is discrimination in the health care system.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are now debating a report on an issue which affects both the member states of the eu and the rich world in general, but in different ways. there is no doubt that overweight and obesity are serious problems that have consequences not only for those directly affected but also for society as a whole. the question we should ask ourselves, however, is whether this is really a problem to be dealt with at eu level. i don't think it was. why should the eu decide where schools should be located in the member states? does this house not think that the people are aware that fruit and vegetables are a healthy diet, or that exercise is important for health? in paragraph 46 of the report, concern is expressed about the decline in the consumption of fruit and vegetables in the eu, due to high prices for these products. this in itself is a sobering thought when one considers the enormous subsidies that eu farmers receive through the cap. will the next step be to demand an increase in agricultural subsidies? obesity and related diseases are an issue for each member state to address, taking into account the specific circumstances of each country. let us instead address the issues that are appropriate to this forum.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs věra flasarová, for a very important report on discrimination against women and girls in the field of education. there are no legal restrictions in eu member states that discriminate against girls' and women's access to education. but as in so many other contexts of gender equality, there are other structures than the purely formal rules that apply in reality. this is why, despite formal rights, the proportion of girls and women is still underrepresented in terms of continuing education or pursuing an academic career. it is therefore structures, attitudes and old gender stereotypes that set the framework for the education of women and girls. the rapporteur is therefore right to focus on the need for a strategy which must start early and involve training teachers and school staff in this area. increased awareness, knowledge and education is the way to build a just society for all, regardless of gender, class and ethnicity.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the ries report and the fight against obesity go deep into issues which i think are the responsibility of the member states. the report also raises issues that politicians should not be concerned with at all. in my view, there is no individual perspective at all. to say that obesity is a chronic disease is not only wrong, it is to take responsibility for people who are overweight or, worse, to take away from so many overweight people the hope that they can change their own situation. obesity may be a symptom of a chronic disease, but to claim otherwise is to create the stigma that the report claims to be trying to eliminate. but the most serious thing, in my view, is something quite different, namely that the media are being steered in a direction which is currently opportune. it is unacceptable and politicians should not do that. i am surprised that so many of my swedish colleagues voted in favour of this report. we moderates voted against, of course.
in writing. we do not consider it a political issue to judge what can be called chronic obesity. this must be a medical problem. that is why we abstained from voting on this matter.
in writing. public health issues are very important, and people with health problems need all the support they can get. however, in our view, this resolution goes beyond the limits of subsidiarity. the issues involved should instead be dealt with at national and regional level, which is why we have chosen to abstain.
in writing. there is no doubt that overweight and obesity is a major public health problem in europe too, which must be prioritised. however, as the report suggests, it should not be regarded as a chronic disease. it is also important that schoolchildren are given the opportunity to participate in sports and physical activity during breaks. however, this is something that each member state must give priority to. it cannot be transferred to the eu level on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. i have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. if a new company form is to be established at european level, it is important that existing legislation in the member states on employee influence, participation and board representation is not undermined. we have therefore chosen to support the amendments tabled before the vote by the gue/ngl and the greens, because they are better than the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a former colleague said, yesterday a significant referendum took place in portugal. you are probably aware that it was about decriminalizing women who terminate a pregnancy up to the tenth week. the portuguese people answered with a resounding 'yes.' i want to congratulate the portuguese women on this step forward to take control of their own bodies. i would also like to thank my portuguese colleagues and the parties who have campaigned with objectivity and reliable information. each member state has the right to decide for itself on reproductive rights; this is a matter for each country to decide. however, it is very important that we can inform and promote joint voices and show solidarity with women across national borders. i hope malta, poland and ireland will follow portugal's example.
in writing. we fully share the view that turkey, like the other candidate countries, must establish a democratic state based on the rule of law, with full human rights and gender equality. we are, however, critical of several individual points in the report. it is, for example, unreasonable for the european parliament to propose the adoption of a mandatory quota system guaranteeing the fair representation of women on electoral lists (paragraph 41), for turkish political parties to adopt internal rules guaranteeing women's participation in their governing bodies at all levels (paragraph 43) and for turkish political parties to include more female candidates on electoral lists (paragraph 44). the eu does not impose this type of requirement on other candidate countries or on existing member states. it is obviously unreasonable to treat a candidate country differently by formulating specific requirements. it is also ultimately up to each country to decide what type of measures to take to strengthen the role of women in society. we have therefore decided to abstain from voting on the final text.
in writing. in the vote on the report by mrs emine bozkurt on the role of turkish women in social, economic and political life, i voted in favour of the amendment which deletes paragraph 41 on quotas. i think it is a big problem that there are not more women in turkish politics, but for me quotas are not the right solution to this problem.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession negotiations with turkey are concluded. the report highlights a number of serious problems, not least the prevalence of honour killings and violence against women. whether or not turkey becomes a member, it is in the eu's immediate vicinity and will be an important trading partner for the eu. it is therefore important that the eu continues to put political pressure on turkey to develop the country in a constructive way. it is very unfortunate, however, that the european parliament goes so far as to propose compulsory quotas for women on various ballots. it is not within the eu's powers to interfere in nomination procedures which comply with democratic rules of the game.
mr president, the meeting with the european council in berlin is an outstanding opportunity to send the message of what we have achieved together and what we need to achieve together in the coming years, the first step until 2009. i think it is important that in the berlin declaration we make it clear that the problems and the challenges we are facing are there because of our success, not because of failure. we have new countries applying for membership because of this success – because they have seen what the european union could contribute regarding peace, the rule of law and stability. we have the whole discussion about globalisation, where the european economy is the leading global actor and gives us opportunities to meet up and to contribute to globalisation. we have the issue of security and stability in the balkans, where, although the european union could not do very much at the beginning of the 1990s, today we can, and that is why we have the responsibility. if we had failed, if we had not been able to develop the european union, no one would have asked us to solve the problem, but now we are able to do it and so we have the responsibility. that also goes for the discussion about climate change because we are, from an economic point of view and also from an environmental point of view, one of the leading global actors. we can contribute to the discussion about reducing the greenhouse effect more than anyone else and that is why we need to do it, but we need to do it wisely, securing the opportunities for growth and investment and high-tech, because otherwise we will not be able to meet the challenges of climate change when it comes. it is a challenge that is double-sided. we need to reduce greenhouse gases, but at the same time to secure a stable and prosperous economy which makes us able to meet future challenges.
member of the commission. i do not know of any other studies at this moment. i can only say that this feasibility study seems to be a study involving eur 15 million, where the commission is probably also participating, and the volume of the whole project is eur 3 billion. it is a huge project and therefore i think it is worthwhile to study things carefully before we really go into something. all of that is in the context of the political environment and the political solution and at this very moment we are cautiously optimistic because there is the outline at the horizon of a national unity government in palestine. hopefully we can start to have a sort or regional cooperation again – at least between a few countries and the palestinian authority. so let us keep our fingers crossed and hope, but i think there is a positive momentum at this moment.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, both the state of preparation of postal markets for full opening and the financing of the universal service in an open market have been analysed with great care and attention by the commission. the commission’s analysis, which was based on several years of studies and continuous and transparent discussions with all stakeholders, is presented in considerable detail in the commission’s preparatory documents. the proposal for a directive and its supporting documents are now under discussion in both the council and the european parliament. it is up to you and the member states in the council to make your own evaluation. the commission took into account the swedish experience to which the honourable member refers, as well as all other market and regulatory developments in the postal sector. it is not a question of attributing a particular value judgement to any or all of these developments or to suggest that the swedish model, or indeed another model, should be copied elsewhere. it is rather a question of showing that various solutions exist. these solutions can be implemented according to the specificities of each national market in order to conduct the necessary postal reform while guaranteeing the provision of an efficient universal service. it is worth noting that in sweden the opening of the market was completed, guaranteeing the provision of the universal service, without the need for additional financing. the swedish government recently presented a detailed study on the opening of the swedish postal market, and its findings do not seem to confirm the fears expressed by the honourable member. in conclusion, and as i said earlier, the commission believes that completing postal reform is vital for securing further improvements in efficiency and quality of service and for ensuring the long-term viability of the postal sector and the business opportunities and employment potential it generates.
member of the commission. according to my information, the situation in sweden has meant that performance is better now than it was, and that has been due to competition. furthermore, the average price of mail (of which mail sent by consumers only represents a small part), including mail by business to consumers, has sharply decreased. in the proposal we have put forward, there is a large menu of options allowed to member states as to how they can deal with the universal service obligations. it will be noted that i made no change at all to the universal service obligation and have allowed the member states a large menu of options as to how they go about financing it. our package should come as no surprise to anybody who has been following this debate, because this debate and the opening-up of the markets have been ongoing for 15 years, and this is the final step in that particular process.
member of the commission. i am pleased that ms kauppi has spoken on this subject, because finland is a country which is very sparsely populated, and the universal service obligation has been fulfilled there, and so too in sweden. these markets have seen the benefits of open competition, and, it is fair to say, so too have the other markets that have opened up their postal area. it is our intention to stick to the time frame of 2009, which is expressed in the 2002 directive on opening up markets, which further said that, by the end of 2006, the commission would come forward with its proposals confirming, or not, the opening of the market in 2009 and whatever other further steps are necessary, and that is what we have done. but the matter is now in the hands of the co-legislators at parliament and at the council of ministers.
i'm from northern sweden. the liberalisation in sweden has been quite good in terms of big cities, but the state is allowed to step in and cover other places. for example, in the north of sweden, in pajala, where i live, we have a 270 km route that covers 200 households. if we have a common directive, can the commissioner guarantee that these households will continue to receive their mail?
in addition, there is the 2006 un human rights council resolution no. 2, which early emphasizes the right of indigenous peoples to sanctuaries. in this case, the entire mountain is the sanctuary, especially the water in the mountain. large amounts of water are used to transport the coal in a pipeline, which means that both the coal and the water in the sanctuary are extracted in a way that deprives the indians of their original rights. i don't know if we have any coal from this mountain in europe today. at this time, an investigation is underway into the possibility of an extended breach.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. producers in other parts of the world have succeeded in producing wines that appeal to european consumers, while being cheaper than european wine. the rapporteur believes that this must be countered by pumping more money into the agricultural policy, while at the same time implementing various types of campaigns. there is no doubt that excellent wines are produced in europe. the question of principle is whether we should allow poorer countries to be excluded in favour of european wine production. the new world is certainly made up of economic giants like the united states and australia, but also of newly industrialized countries like south africa, chile and argentina. in these countries, wines are often produced in poor, underprivileged areas. the social safety nets that exist in the eu countries do not exist in the same way in the above countries. if wine production in these areas is curbed, the consequences for the population will be severe. it is important to have a global perspective, and therefore a public health perspective, when discussing this issue. the protectionist features of this report are unfavourable in the long term for both eu and new world wine producers. after all, wine is an alcoholic beverage. the eu should therefore not sponsor campaigns which encourage more wine drinking.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on december 18, 2001, ahmed agiza, the father of five children, is waiting for the bus in karlstad, sweden. he had taken a swedish course. the next day, he's in a cold, solitary cell in cairo, egypt. he has been tortured and humiliated, both during the abduction in sweden and in egypt. this was over five years ago. ahmed agiza is still in captivity in egypt. ahmed agiza could just as easily have been mohammed al zari, abu omar, khaled el masri or any of the other prisoners imprisoned and tortured by the cia, often in cooperation with the member states. in this report, we document 1,245 cases of illegal cia flights, illegal transfers and a host of torture and abuse. this is a report calling for judicial investigations in those countries which have not opened such investigations, such as my own country, sweden, and for compensation and justice for those affected. the report also calls for the closure of the guantanamo prison camp. i would like to conclude by saying that human rights are universal and inviolable. the report shows that they must be recovered every day.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the rapporteur, mr fava, has delivered a very slanted and, in my view, bad report, but in this debate on the cia flights we are for once entering an area where the eu should have a say. human rights must be respected in the eu member states. the fight against terrorism must not lead us to give up that respect and to become like those we are to fight. it is true that the united states under president bush has begun to break the basic rules of civilized society. cia flights and secret prisons are just part of this frightening development. it is appalling that eu countries, including my own country, sweden, have been involved. these member states excuse themselves by saying that they have diplomatic guarantees that those who are extradited will not be tortured, that their guilt will be tested in a fair trial and that they will not be sentenced to death. all experience shows that such guarantees are worthless. torture and unfair trials are standard in many countries. shame on those who continue to contribute to this!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the cia committee has not been a court of law. the report is not an attack on the united states or anti-american. anyone who says that is wrong, including charles tannock. too many colleagues seem prepared to close their eyes and ears to the abuses that have occurred. too many coincidences, indications and pure evidence tell us that there have been repeated violations of fundamental human rights in the fight against terrorism and this on european soil. you who deny this should prove otherwise. in my home country, sweden, we know what has happened. two egyptians have been deported from the country with the help of the cia and the swedish government. the criticism of sweden is entirely correct and should not be watered down as inger segelström proposes. let us learn for the future and strengthen the eu's capacity to act for human dignity on the basis of articles 6 and 7 of the treaty. terrorism must be fought, but it must be fought by the rule of law.
mr president, i would like to thank you. amnesty international has called the cia's method of "torture on the job". that's exactly what this is about. we have documented flights, kidnappings, abductions and expulsions carried out in a completely unacceptable manner. as far as sweden is concerned, this concerns the expulsion of the two egyptians following a government decision on asylum and what happened at bromma airport during the execution of the expulsion. the cia then went too far in violating the common rules that sweden has supported both nationally, in the eu and in the un. i am glad that we have agreed that diplomatic guarantees cannot be used as a guarantee for expulsions to third countries or that a foreign power can execute executive orders without the full responsibility of the national police, even if it is suspected of terrorism. victims shall receive redress and compensation. what concerns me is whether the ppe-de group will follow the line taken by the cia committee and vote against the report. in my own country it is particularly important that the swedish conservative members vote in favour of the report, so that we agree that this must not happen again and that terrorism must be fought, but not by violating human rights.
in writing. we abstained in the vote on the report on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. it is clear that the fight against terrorism has involved violations of human rights, which are also stated in the report, and which we moderates condemn. however, by mixing facts with assumptions and unconfirmed rumours, the report risks undermining rather than reinforcing legitimate criticism. we opposed the creation of the special committee because we believe that criminal offences should be investigated by the judiciary. the responsibility for investigations has been primarily national. for example, the swedish constitutional committee has examined - and condemned - the swedish government's actions. the issues that the report deals with are primarily those which fall within the competence of the member states and not the eu. the governments of the member states are not responsible to the european parliament in these matters but to their national parliaments and only to them, unless european legal rules have been violated. if there has been a breach by member states of commitments at european level, it is the commission's responsibility to investigate and bring such breaches to justice.
in writing. many regrettable incidents have been recorded in the fight against terrorism. however, these issues have already been addressed by the un human rights council and the council of europe. the swedish government has taken up this criticism. there is therefore no need to discuss this issue in the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of many of the proposals, but abstained on the vote on the report as such.
in writing. since the junilists believe that the eu should not have a common fisheries policy, we have voted against this report. we also ask for references to previous explanations of vote on fisheries policy.
in writing. the proposal contains a number of good suggestions to prevent overfishing. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal for pragmatic reasons. the eu's fisheries policy has generally discouraged the long-term sustainable exploitation of marine resources by subsidising the purchase of efficient boats by fishermen. fisheries policy also harms the people of poor countries by buying fishing rights in their waters from weak governments. the eu should therefore return fisheries policy to the member states and only monitor that member states do not overfish species that move in the territorial waters of several countries.
in writing. the junilist believes that the eu's common agricultural policy should be abolished. we are also opposed to the new aid under the name of rural development. we wonder why the eu thinks that the member states are not capable of developing their rural areas themselves. we are faced with two options in this vote - the commission proposal or the proposal from the european parliament's committee on agriculture. in this situation we have chosen to vote for the commission's proposal, because it is better than the agriculture committee's proposal, which is totally unreasonable. the report's explanatory statement contains a number of views, including criticism of the abandonment or renationalisation of the cap, which junilista considers to be a good thing, and that it is contrary to the european parliament's right to participate, a view which junilista does not share. in addition, the explanatory memorandum states that the health check of the long-term budget should only form the basis for proposals for the financing period after 2013. that view is certainly not shared by junilistan. we believe that the mid-term review should lead to cuts in the agricultural/rural development budget already in the current 2007-2013 budget period. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
in writing. we voted in favour of amendments nos 3 and 8 because we think it would be good if the eu member states could agree unanimously on taxes that help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. on the other hand, we do not support any decisions on taxes with majority voting at eu level, because we swedish social democrats believe that decisions on taxes should be taken at national level.
in writing. the greenhouse effect is one of the great problems of our time. it is therefore important that major efforts are made to reduce co2 emissions. one of the most important and best ways of eliminating co2 emissions is to replace energy production by burning coal and oil with nuclear power. the iaea has stated that nuclear power is a necessary component for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. it is regrettable that this resolution chooses to ignore this by insisting that emissions must not be reduced by nuclear energy. that is why i am voting against this resolution.
in writing. we supported the resolution on the lisbon strategy. we believe that the lisbon strategy should continue to be based on the mutual support of social, economic and environmental policies. it is important to continue the work on the strategy by emphasising a holistic approach, which means well-functioning and open markets, education, an active gender equality welfare policy and a progressive environmental policy, which together contribute to growth and job creation. we did not, however, support the demand that obstacles to job creation, including those for relatively low-wage jobs, must be removed. this can be interpreted as the opening of a low-wage market. we are absolutely against it. on the contrary, we want to prevent such a development. this can be done by giving a greater role to collective agreements and cooperation between the social partners. we also oppose legislation that encourages the use of 'clean energy' and 'carbon neutral energy technologies', as this could be interpreted as supporting the expansion of nuclear power. we would rather see increased efforts to develop renewable energy, to promote sustainable development.
in writing. the proposal contains several good suggestions on the importance of increased competition and improved conditions for entrepreneurship and innovation. the lisbon process must be seen as primarily a national matter, however, and it is unfortunate that parliament is going into a number of areas which are for the individual member states to decide. the report, for example, looks at how member states should organise their social security systems and how they should ensure that all those leaving school are offered jobs or measures aimed at employability. that is why i am voting against this resolution.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the report i have drawn up on the employment guidelines is extremely short and was adopted by the employment committee by a unanimous vote. it is really a question of how we are going to deal with the next year's employment guidelines and integrated guidelines. the guidelines we have this year remain the same, but next year we will have a more thorough review. then we expect, as commissioner almunia said, that we will be able to spend a little more time on this. then we need more time in parliament too. i really want to emphasize this. there is a difference between the employment guidelines and the economic guidelines. the employment guidelines cannot be adopted by the council until parliament has given its opinion. this requires good cooperation between the institutions for next year. we've made it easy for this year. we did that last year too, when there was no major review. next year, there's a big review. then we expect a cooperation that will last for several months. in fact, we have already had a discussion in the committee on employment between the coordinators and myself about appointing a rapporteur now to prepare the work for next year's change. i would like to mention something about the situation, even if it is only mentioned in the explanatory statement. europe is doing much better. employment trends are more positive than they were a few years ago. unemployment is falling. we're growing at a decent rate. however, we must not forget that there are still shortcomings on which we must concentrate. it concerns young people who leave school early, young people who go into unemployment immediately after their education. if they are excluded from the labour market for a long time, we know that it will be extremely difficult to get them back into it. the differences between men and women are still large in the labour market. this is the case for people who have come to us from other parts of the world and who still have problems entering the labour market because of our deficiencies in integration policy. this applies to people with disabilities who are also excluded from the labour market. i was at the informal ministerial meeting with the labour ministers. another aspect was also raised, namely that we want better jobs. it is true that we have more jobs, but we also want better jobs. what does 'better jobs' mean? well, we mean jobs that pay a living wage, jobs that provide further development and the training that is so necessary to get ahead in the job market. it is also about a good working environment and influence, so that you yourself and your trade union organisation have influence. the development we have now with more jobs does not always mean better jobs. we know this, and there are discussions on this in several countries, including germany, which i visited recently. i also know from my own country that some of the new jobs are so-called atypical jobs which do not always provide a living wage and do not always provide opportunities for further training. the impact is also quite minimal. so we must also concentrate on creating not just more but also high-quality jobs. europe can never compete on the world market by creating low-wage and non-earning jobs, but only by creating high-quality jobs that give influence, further training and so on. we therefore intend to return to this next year when we make the more thorough review of employment trends, which concerns more and better jobs and groups which today still have difficulty entering the labour market.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am responsible for a case on cod fishing in the baltic sea in the environment committee. in my work on this subject i have been able to see that, despite the reduction in fishing quotas, some of the cod stocks are close to the biologically critical limit. the threats to cod are many, but the biggest threat is, after all, the illegal fishing that is taking place. i have sought to obtain the commission's assessment of the extent of the baltic sea's illegal fishing for the purpose of my report. however, the information has been classified. it took me months to get this information. but yesterday i came across the report, and suddenly i understand the secrecy. the baltic sea piracy was worse than we all imagined. i can only regret that sweden is one of the worst offenders. however, the commission notes that poland is the worst-affected country. when inspectors checked the fisheries in poland, they found that reported catches increased by 48 percent. this means that up to a third of polish fisheries turn out to be illegal. the second worst offender was sweden. the catch there increased by a whopping 21 percent when it was controlled. this is completely incomprehensible, since swedish fishermen do not even meet their quotas. the conclusion i draw from the report i read is that we must find a new strategy. we cannot put our hopes in endless negotiations on reductions in fishing quotas. the environmental movement should put its demands for a fisheries moratorium down somewhere. all of us who care for fisheries in the baltic sea, for example, should instead join forces in the fight to stop poaching. i would therefore like to make four demands to the commission. firstly, instead of hiding and protecting the criminals, you should expose them by publicising and naming the countries which do not stop the poaching. secondly, that you ensure that electronic logbooks are required as soon as possible for all vessels fishing in the baltic sea, regardless of their size. thirdly, that you bring poland to justice for breaches of the fisheries regulations, and fourthly, that you immediately launch an inquiry into the introduction of individual transferable fishing quotas which give individual professional fishermen a vested interest in protecting fish stocks. i therefore ask here today whether the commission is prepared to do so.
the rapporteur. no, i'm not voting for the motion to deport. oomen-ruijten should know that the economic guidelines cannot be adopted by the council until parliament has given its opinion. that's the actual order. the commission, and in particular the council, must take parliament's views into account. this is the case with the employment guidelines. this is a major problem with the economic guidelines, since there is no such framework in that area.
in writing. we swedish social democrats have voted against the report on the common organization of the market in wine. the report is characterised by a high degree of protectionism which can be detrimental to economic development both in the eu and in developing countries. the report also contains a number of recommendations to stimulate the wine sector by means of aid for the production and marketing of wine. we cannot support this, both in terms of public health and the impact on the eu budget. a number of amendments have been tabled by the xenophobic group its, which deletes certain passages from the report. we social democrats have voted against the its amendment. we think it is unacceptable to support this group. we consider that we have distanced ourselves from the report by voting against it in its entirety.
in writing. the present report raises a very important and topical question, but the approach is totally wrong. the european parliament is once again trying to advance its positions, this time with the argument of the increase in terrorism and its victims. the report is full of writings which represent small but nevertheless worrying steps towards a european union state with a common foreign and security policy. it is also interfering in the internal affairs of states, in some cases in violation of the constitutions of the member states. we also note that they have the audacity to refer to a constitution which was rejected in european referendums. the most serious of these calls include the abolition of the unanimity rule on such an important issue as police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. this is completely unacceptable. we have therefore voted against the report, including most of the amendments tabled, in accordance with our mandate from our electorate.
in writing. this report does not contain any analysis of what may need to be harmonised at eu level. it's based on what should be shown. the aim is to achieve almost total control of economic policy at eu level. it is claimed without a shred of evidence that emu has strengthened europe's economy. experience suggests rather that the single currency has been directly detrimental from the point of view of economic stabilisation and has had little positive structural effect. the rapporteur calls for more money from the community budget for the lisbon strategy. this is unreasonable. what is required is that the member states actually do what they should do in their own self-evident interests. there is no point in trying to get other countries to finance them from common budgetary resources. the report shows no understanding of the value of the fact that the member states are still free from top-down control and can therefore seek new ways of conducting economic policy. at the same time, the rapporteur points out that some countries are doing much better than others in different areas. the fact that he can point to these differences and draw conclusions about what is clearly best practice is precisely because we have not implemented the extreme top-down management and uniformity that he advocates. the report points to a very dangerous path for economic policy in europe. that is why we voted no.
in writing. the report is old-fashioned and out of date with its focus on traditional growth policies. it has a very unbalanced appraisal of the euro and a very unbalanced applause of the single market. at the same time, it is to some extent self-critical and recognises the growing wage gap, greater poverty and the advantages of the scandinavian model. the report calls for continued forced liberalisation of the energy market, but combines this with calls for investment and tax policies that favour renewable energy. the report thus contains both positive and negative elements. that is why i am abstaining in the final vote.
in writing. junilista believes that adaptation to rising energy prices is best done at national level. that is why we are sceptical of this 'opinion' resolution by the european parliament. for example, in the draft report, paragraph 20, it is considered that there is no eu energy regulator. bureaucratization and top management are, as always, the only way forward in parliament. we believe that the member states should be responsible for such supervision themselves, as long as there are no crossborder risks of the nuclear type. in that case, however, the authority responsible for supervision should be the un agency, the iaea. eu countries have to agree on certain energy targets. how these are achieved will be left to the individual countries. the report contains both positive and negative comments. but as it is a report outside the legislative procedure and of little importance, we have chosen to vote against it in the final vote, as we believe that it does not make any difference to or from the debate in the member states on these issues.
for the pse group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr hasse ferreira, for his good work and for his success in securing a large majority in the committee for his proposal. social services of general interest were excluded from the services directive. there was a reason for that. they have a very specific character, different from the commercial services, and have therefore been excluded. the special nature of these programmes means that they are often publicly funded, in whole or in part. they do not target groups, primarily on the basis of ability to pay, but some services target everyone, such as childcare in my country, sweden. some are for people with special needs, the elderly with special care needs or the disabled with the special needs they have. the aim is to ensure that people have as equal a life as possible. how they are organised differs across europe. often it is a local organization. they are democratically run, often close to the citizens, and are also often carried out by the public by public employees, but they can also be cooperative and sometimes also private companies. it is up to the local authorities to decide how they want their activities to be carried out. social services are important for europe. they are important for several reasons, of course, first and foremost for the citizens, for all those citizens who take advantage of public services. they contribute to both equality and gender equality. it is important for the economy, as rapkay said, without the social services all over europe the rest of the economy would not work, and it is important not least for employment, lots of people are employed in the social services, not least a large group of women. as regards the importance of these questions for europe, we can discuss what we need to do at european level. i share the view of rapkay and most of my group that we need some kind of sectoral directive, precisely to distinguish the specific nature of these services and to separate them from the commercial services. it is not to take them back from the local level or to go against the principle of subsidiarity, but to protect these services on the basis of the activities they have today, the diversity of our member states.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a discussion that has been extraordinarily profound, extraordinarily interesting. let me summarise very briefly the points which i consider to be of appropriate special importance in the debate. it is quite clear that social services of public interest are, according to the prevailing view, the object or subject of the discussion sui generis. they are not ordinary services, either because they guarantee rights, or because they are directed at people who are and can be very vulnerable and very weak in terms of defending their own position and their own rights. it is also clear that the principle of subsidiarity has been strongly emphasised and that proposals for different types of solutions have been received from many parties and that there is a certain uncertainty in the legal concept of these services, in particular in relation to the principles applicable in the internal market. ladies and gentlemen, i think all these issues are so important that they need to be given continued attention. the commission intends to take the following steps:present a european strategy on social services of general interest to be adopted in the autumn of this year. this communication will set out the further steps the commission intends to take. the commission will assess the legal feasibility and the appropriate political opportunity to present a legal instrument in this area. the communication will also be accompanied by a first biennial report on social services of general interest. this report will aim to provide an overview of the situation of social services of general interest in europe, to describe the trends observed in the modernisation of these services, to highlight the socio-economic importance of the sector and to present the legislative developments over this period. ladies and gentlemen, i share your view that social services in the public interest are a solid structure in our social model, that future developments in them will be very rapid, that they will present us with new challenges and that action is needed. thank you. thank you.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in fact, corporate social responsibility (csr) is on the rise in europe. the commission's communication last year has triggered a wide wave of activity and new ideas. csr can make a major contribution to sustainable development and increase europe's innovation potential and competitiveness. csr is therefore closely linked to our strategy for growth and jobs. the aim of this strategy is not only to create more jobs but above all to create better jobs. it is not about short-term successes, it is not about seemingly favourable quarterly results, but about our companies sustainably adapting to changing global competitive conditions. the social environment is an important factor in competition, but it is not the responsibility of policy alone. companies have their own responsibilities which go beyond mere compliance with the law. they have a responsibility for the social climate, for the environment, for equality, for education, for innovation and for structural change. in short, they have a responsibility for the people who work in the companies and for the location where they are located. the commission welcomes the knowledgeable and competent report by mr howitt, which substantially supports and makes an important contribution to the commission's objectives of strengthening csr in europe. i strongly agree that the debate should be about delivering concrete results, that we should fully involve the stakeholders and interested groups in the multi-stakeholder approach and that we should integrate the whole process even more fully into the lisbon strategy. the commission sees, as you know, limits to the possibilities of regulation in this area. we believe that corporate culture cannot be legislated and standardized from above. this is why the commission has not decided to propose a regulation on csr or to standardise csr at european level. if something has to be regulated somewhere, if we have to insist on the fact that the companies do something out of our political responsibility, then we must have the courage to make the appropriate legal regulations, and we must do so concretely and in the area in question. but corporate social responsibility is by definition something that goes beyond the legal obligations of companies. it's more than what we're prescribing in regulations. we want to support and encourage companies to use the many internationally recognised instruments available. the commission also supports csr in a global context. an example of this is the eu-africa business forum, set up by my colleague louis michel, where business representatives from two continents discussed social responsibility in november 2006. the commission continues to discuss with developing countries progress in implementing the basic provisions of the international labour organisation. in europe, we are encouraging the further development of such instruments within the different sectors as well as cross-sectoral initiatives. my colleague špidla and i meet more and more entrepreneurs who are committed to making europe a pioneer in csr and who see it as a clear advantage for their business in the market. the european csr alliance has developed impressive model initiatives in its short existence. forward-looking managers and investors have long known that a company with a good csr record is usually a successful one. you can even read it in the stock prices of these companies. the commission is calling on european companies to make csr a european brand and to put together a competition to find the best ideas. we believe that a european company must be one which recognises its social responsibility and acts accordingly. the commission and parliament are in full agreement on this.
member of the commission. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague günter verheugen has characterised the general framework of corporate social responsibility. i think it is appropriate for me to stress that these are voluntary undertakings which clearly go beyond the legislation and this of course does not in any way restrict the right of any legislator, any body with the right of legislative initiative, to propose such proposals as it deems necessary. since the general framework has been characterised clearly enough, let me mention some specific areas where we support the enterprise initiative, which are part of the strategy of march 2006. first, through recruitment and personnel management policies, enterprises play a leading role in vocational integration and promote social inclusion. secondly, 2007 was declared the european year of equal opportunities for all. we have neither the right nor the means to deprive ourselves of our diverse talents, and we support business initiatives to promote equal opportunities. the third important element of the intergenerational pact that an ageing europe urgently needs is the inclusion and retention of older people in employment. the other priorities identified in the march communication are equally important, whether it is health, investing in lifelong learning, education innovation, science or global scope. the text you will be discussing addresses these issues. to ensure that csr continues into the 21st century, a dialogue with society as a whole is needed, which is why we convened the multilateral forum on csr in december. we also decided to convene a european-level discussion body between the plenary sessions of the forum, bringing together representatives of civil society, business and academia. the forum meeting allowed us to evaluate the results of the initiatives that have taken place since 2004. as regards the commission's initiatives, we believe that csr is increasingly being integrated into all our policies, in particular into actions related to the european union's external policy. topics of common interest such as education, research and working conditions in the subcontracting chain have also been identified for the future, which is of course of great importance, especially in promoting sound social conditions in areas outside europe for subcontractors who supply european companies. we have a lot of work to do, but we're on the right track. our discussions and exchanges with stakeholders show that csr is an evolving process. it is important to maintain the current conditions and not to slacken in our efforts.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate him on his report. i think he has managed to present a report that can secure widespread support in this chamber. i think it is important to make some remarks about corporate social responsibilities. first of all, the main task of companies is to deliver the services and products they are established for and to be run at a profit, because otherwise they will not survive. if they cannot fulfil these main tasks, they will fail in their fundamental social responsibility as employers and as producers of services and goods. i think it is important to underline this when we discuss how to define corporate social responsibilities. our point of view – because we have discussed this question in the itre committee as well as within our group – is that it should be a matter of voluntary responsibility. it has to be performed on its own merits and as a part of the responsibility that the individual company has in society. companies have a social role in society. they must be good employers, delivering services and products of a high quality, because otherwise they will lose credibility and they will lose out in the market. but there are also grounds for saying that they must behave well in their own terms, because good and strong companies who stand up for fundamental values, whether in europe or anywhere else in the world, are contributing to a better world, but also to a better economy and to better products and services. there should be voluntary responsibility, because otherwise legislation would be needed and that is another matter. if we try to streamline too much, we will lose the variety and the dynamism that each company can deliver by making the most of its opportunities to be a good employer, a good company and a good service and product provider.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has tabled an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank commissioner špidla and mr sartori for their excellent work. women in europe make up 52% of all citizens and expect gender equality to be at the top of the political agenda across the eu, as well as the right to fulltime work and equal pay. today, all european women work for free for eight weeks, or 15% less than all men. women want jobs and families. childcare and care for the elderly are needed if we want more children in the eu. we swedish social democratic women started a call for free abortion on international women's day. abortion rights are under threat again. we must halve the number of women and children in human trafficking and prostitution within 10 years, reach every second woman in the eu and the next elections in 2009, and establish better cooperation with the good and the decent men. the roadmap must be evaluated regularly if it is to be a political force here, in the council and in the commission. european women are now taking the next step towards equality and i think it will be good.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. thank you to sartori for a great job. the commission's communication on the roadmap addresses various priority areas for gender equality, including the promotion of equal participation of women and men in decision-making. the commission therefore considers it to be important. but the commission's interest in helping to promote women's participation in decision-making itself is beyond criticism, i dare say. this is because the president of the commission appointed an advisory group on the important issues of energy and climate change as recently as 6 march this year. the group consists of 11 persons, one of whom is a woman. so much for priorities. unfortunately, as long as the eu institutions continue to act in this way, their credibility is at risk. all roadmaps, resolutions, statements and so on will then be mere paper products. gender equality and women's rights must be the subject of concrete action, we are many women who have grown tired of the beautiful words about equal rights. we don't need words, we need action. i have long argued that we would make progress on gender equality if we had a commissioner who was solely responsible for gender equality issues and also made sure that decisions and resolutions were implemented. i still think it would be a real step forward. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is a pleasure to adopt this report on a roadmap for a europe of equals. the report addresses many important areas such as equal pay for equal work, violence against women by men, fatherlessness, etc. issues where gender equality really needs to be concretised and strengthened. here all the member states have a great responsibility to ensure that the document is not simply put away and forgotten, but that we are really working towards a more equal europe. but i would also like to address all men in particular, because without the participation of men in this important work, we will never have equality in europe. last thursday was international women's day. the swedish newspapers wrote about equality from top to bottom, and it probably looked the same all over europe. what upsets me is that this issue is less frequently raised during the rest of the year. just take this with the gender pay gap, where the pay gap is still 15 percent in favour of men in europe. this is despite the fact that the treaty of rome already provided for the right to equal pay. it is remarkable that we have not progressed on this issue in 50 years. i have high hopes for the commission's communication on this important issue and for the gender equality plan for europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank the committee on the environment for putting this excellent question to the commission, which gives us the opportunity to hear the commission's reaction to important questions. it also gives us in the committee on the internal market the opportunity to put forward what we think is important. health is a matter for the member states and the principle of subsidiarity applies. however, this is not the same as citizens not having the right to healthcare in other member states. we cannot claim to defend the right of patients to safe and high quality care if we do not allow those who need it, for whatever reason, to seek care in another member state. we must do our utmost to preserve these rights, despite the various dimensions of which everyone here is well aware, namely that there are problems, but also positive dimensions, particularly on the information side. it is also clear or at least should be clear that the jurisdiction of the court of justice cannot be weakened by secondary legislation. the practice exists, and the treaty gives any citizen who so wishes the right to provide services in another member state, notwithstanding the full compliance with the laws of the respective country. the commission, in my view, should withdraw any legislation whereby member states and governments seek to restrict existing primary rights of patients or service providers. it is important that the proposal the commission is putting forward is a step forward and not a step backwards and we have high hopes for commissioner kyprianou in that respect.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction, as so many others have, that climate/energy policy is now high on the commission's agenda. i too thought the outcome of the summit was satisfactory. i also think that the focus on growth and employment is positive. let me remind you of the major revision of the economic and employment guidelines which will come next year. it will be important, and we in parliament have stressed on several occasions the importance of parliament being properly consulted on this occasion and given adequate time to submit its proposals. now i'm going to go over what hannes swoboda was up to. i think it was jacques delors who once said that nobody loves the single market. it must therefore be supplemented and balanced by a proper social dimension. the commission talks a lot about the social dimension but delivers very little. there are few new proposals in the social field. let me take the positive side, however, it is positive that the commission is now tackling the issue of discrimination also outside the labour market, against disabled people and other groups. it is good that social services are being brought up and that efforts are being made to clarify their specific nature. we had a discussion about it yesterday because of a report and i personally hope that it would be in the form of a sectoral directive. otherwise, it is a matter of surveys of the social situation, surveys of the way in which labour law operates, surveys everywhere, but few concrete proposals. let me mention two proposals where i think initiatives could be taken, to be a little more concrete. old jobs are gone, new jobs are coming. the instruments we have for information and consultation, such as the european works councils and the directive on information and consultation of employees, are not working satisfactorily. employees lose their jobs without being properly informed and without being involved in the process. it is time for the commission to take the initiative to review the existing directives so that they work in accordance with the intentions. the second area concerns the working environment. europe has had a great deal of success in the field of health and safety at work over the years, with some 50 directives in existence. there are far fewer deaths and injuries in the workplace today. at the same time, new occupational health and safety problems are emerging in the labour market due to the changing labour market. these include stress, burnout, workplace bullying and other emerging workplace problems. the commission's initiatives are thereby absent. my advice to the commission is not just to talk about the social dimension, but also to deliver, for example in the area of information and consultation and the field of health and safety at work. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. interest subsidies to offset the interest costs incurred by member states in purchasing agricultural products produced in the eu are one of many aspects of eu agriculture that need to be radically changed. in the name of consistency, however, it is acceptable that some interest compensation is given to the new member states in order to avoid creating mass unemployment in the poorer parts of europe. the report concerns the extension of a scheme in place since 2004 which compensates the new member states whose interest rates are substantially above the eu average. the cost of an extension is approximately eur 10 million per year. the financing has been proposed to be through savings in other budget lines and thus does not lead to additional budgetary increases at the aggregate level. moreover, the commission considers this extension as part of a package which at the same time proposes to eliminate the subsidies for maize cultivation, which would mean a tough saving of some eur 35 million in 2008 (and the total saving for 2008-2014 amounts to eur 617,8 million according to the commission). in the longer term, a 'no' vote not only risks affecting the new member states but could also jeopardise the commission's proposal for savings of just over 600 million. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. we have voted in favour of the roadmap for gender equality because we take it for granted that equality between men and women should prevail. but we also believe that the responsibility for most actions to achieve gender equality rests with individuals. as the measures requiring legislation are usually national competence, we have voted against a large number of individual proposals in the report. we do not believe, for example, that the eu should decide on childcare, parental leave or abortion legislation in the member states.
in writing. gender equality and the vulnerability of women in both the public and private spheres is one of the most important issues of our time. however, we have voted against the report because we have confidence in the proper management of this important matter by the respective national parliaments of the member states. we do not believe that the eu should express itself on this type of issue in lengthy reports, which are rather political programmes, and we are opposed in principle to the general trend of the eu institutions seeking to gain influence and competence in an increasing number of areas. the eu's role in this context is to ensure that no country that is or becomes a member violates the values of gender equality.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr president of the council! commissioner, what is it? as has been said, we have ambitious targets from the barcelona summit for the development of childcare. some countries have already achieved the targets, others are a long way off, which is not satisfactory. why, then, is child care important? it is important for families to be able to reconcile family and work life. it is important for gender equality, since women have traditionally been the ones who have had to take care of children and thus have not entered the labour market. it is important for children to have access to good quality childcare as an important part of their development towards school and the adult world, etc. it is also good for employment and growth, because if we look at the countries that have come a long way in terms of childcare development, they also have high employment rates, high employment rates for women and therefore also higher growth. we see the demographic trends. we need women in the labour market - we need everyone in the labour market. the method we have is best practice. many of the decisions are taken in the member states, at local and regional level, but i must say that it is a satisfactory thing that the debate has now spread. i am following the debate in germany, for example. in germany, this debate is very much alive in a way that it has not been before. it is important that this debate takes place in our member states and that we see the need for childcare so that this development can begin. i would like to thank the german presidency for inviting me, as chairman of the committee on employment, to the informal meeting in may to discuss these issues. i am happy to accept this meeting. we hope that we will speed up the development of childcare, for the sake of children, for the sake of families but also for the sake of employment.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the most important basis for equality between women and men is the right and opportunity for women to be self-sufficient, i.e. the right to work but also the opportunity to have good and quality childcare. without the support and responsibility of society to ensure that all children have access to good childcare at a reasonable cost to the parents, women are forced to rely on others for their livelihood. but i want to emphasize, as the presidency did, the rights of the child and the child's perspective in this context. it is very important for children to be able to socialize with other children, to meet other adults than their parents, to have access to the pedagogy necessary for the child's development. children who have the benefit of being in childcare with other children and adults with educational training get a better start on their development and increase their social skills. so good childcare is not only important for gender equality and economic growth, but it is just as important for the children. i think it is time for the eu institutions, and above all the member states, to reduce the level of commitment to children's rights that has been applied to goods in the internal market. otherwise we won't even reach the barcelona goals.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for a very good and important document. many of my colleagues have said that the functioning of the internal market requires well-informed and knowledgeable consumers, a well-functioning market and good competition. this is, as we all know, a matter where national interests are to some extent at odds with the interests of the eu and of consumers. my question to the commissioner is how do you see the possibilities of getting a greater response to a common consumer policy where there is also the possibility of further action within eu and ec legislation today compared to the past. we know that it has been difficult to get the member states to agree to a wider eu commitment on these issues.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. greenhouse gas emissions are a concern. they appear to be leading to rapid changes in the earth's climate. what can the eu do about this on its own? it's a difficult balance. by taking the lead, we increase our ability to put pressure on china, india, the united states and russia, and europe can gain an environmental technological edge. but we must not go too fast and thereby undermine our competitiveness. the council agreed on a fair balance in this matter. a rare success in an eu where the vast majority of decisions are undermining freedom, weakening democracy, undermining national sovereignty and bureaucratising our lives. but at the same time, it should be noted that this success shatters the official argument for the draft constitution, which is that individual member states must be able to be overruled in eu decision-making and that democracy must yield to efficiency. otherwise, they say, the eu will be impotent. this is not true, as it seems, and neither was it true of the services directive. the hidden argument for the draft constitution is that the creation of an eu state requires a power platform for a new european elite. political power must be taken away from the nation states which are the origin and foundation of european democracy. the council has once again shown that it is possible to take major decisions even when all the member states have vetoes. thank you for that. the court of justice has also held that the principle of proportionality is not applicable to the application of the principle of proportionality.
in writing. the report is seen as a further step towards full harmonisation of community legislation. the creation of an authority to monitor and record migration flows to and from the eu is, in our view, completely unnecessary and would place an additional burden on the eu budget. the rapporteur has defined legal concepts such as 'citizenship' and 'illegal immigrants' without respect for existing national legislation. in fact, there is already accurate and reliable expert analysis and data on migration, not just within the eu but across the world, that the un represents. citizenship, refugee status and immigration are other concepts that are well defined in the un charter of human rights. the junilist does not want to contribute to the building of a surveillance society in which the free movement of people can be affected by decisions taken at supranational level and therefore votes against the report as a whole.
in writing. a directive is not the best way to regulate complex statistical collection, but it is better to manage it through agreements between responsible authorities with the necessary competence. i therefore abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. common rules for air transport are necessary and desirable, not least from a safety point of view. there are therefore good grounds for discussing how the current cooperation in the field of aviation should continue and develop. as usual, however, the european parliament is trying to bring forward other proposals aimed at extending the eu's powers in areas which should be reserved to the national states. however, we believe that the present report proposes that the european aviation safety agency (easa) should be given an overly broad mandate. we trust that the competent national authorities are able to ensure that pilots have satisfactory professional competence and adequate language skills. we also do not share the view that the eu countries should have a common representative in the un body for global aviation affairs (icao). we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. we supported the report. social services have a special character and are different from commercial services. the way in which these services are financed and delivered is a matter for the member states themselves, but it is important that they are of high quality and accessible to all citizens. in order to protect social services from the rules of the internal market, a sectoral directive is desirable, distinguishing between social and commercial services with a clear definition. we are, however, confronted with the concept of 'women's work', which is a word unfamiliar to us. we assume that the rapporteur is referring to the fact that many women work in the social services sector and that it is important to promote their participation in the labour market, while at the same time combating precarious employment conditions. as regards 'part-time work', we consider full-time to be a right and part-time to be an opportunity. we also want to clarify that 'paid volunteering' does not exist in the public sector, but can exist in a complementary social economy. unpaid homework is not, however, part of the social services. we interpret the concept of 'public-private partnership' as meaning that in the social services sector there are different services that are publicly funded and performed by different actors, such as public companies, non-profit organisations, cooperatives and private companies.
in writing. the junilist accepts that the eu represents the member states in trade policy matters. this includes the current aviation agreement with the united states, which aims to allow eu airlines to fly freely to any place in the united states. we are critical of the european parliament's views on the ownership structures of american airlines. this is a matter for the competent american authorities. we do, however, share the general views expressed in the resolution. the aviation agreement is also good for the internal market, an area which we want to protect and develop. we have therefore voted in favour of the final vote.
in writing. nuclear weapons pose a global threat to the world's population. the developments we are seeing now, with more countries acquiring nuclear weapons technology, are very disturbing. every sovereign state has the right to defend itself and its citizens, but in principle we believe that nuclear weapons are not justified. history has shown the devastation these weapons can cause. the present resolution contains both good and bad phrases. for example, we believe that all references to the european security strategy should be deleted. in fact, this issue is a prime example of why we should not have a common foreign and security policy (cfsp) in the eu. several member states have substantial nuclear arsenals, while others cede their territory to non-european nuclear powers. in a future eu with a common security policy in place, non-nuclear-weapon member states could be inadvertently drawn into conflicts with such weapons. furthermore, the world is bigger than the eu and a global problem must be solved at a global level. the un has the knowledge and experience and is the competent institution to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world. we believe that the underlying meaning of the resolution is to strengthen the cfsp and parliament's influence on these issues. that is why we are voting no.
mr speaker, we are discussing two issues here tonight, and they should not be mixed together. one is the problem of unemployment, which should be dealt with by member states with the necessary support from the union and the different social funds – as was pointed out earlier by the commissioner – but not by more political involvement in the european aircraft industry. the other is the future of the european aircraft industry. if there is to be a future, that future must be based upon commercial decisions and the preconditions of the market, not on political discussions in parliaments or in governments. it is the involvement of too many governments, too many parliaments and too much politics that is creating problems and hindering the decision-making that would make the best of the opportunities open to the european aircraft industry. the task of airbus must be to produce and deliver the best aeroplanes in the world, not to deliver political promises from whatever country or from whatever government it is. i think there is only way to ensure that we can contribute to that. of course, we shall have the best possible support for research and science, but we shall also ensure that we can have a functioning market – and a functioning transatlantic market because that is crucial. it is important to ensure that the responsibility of the aircraft industry and of airbus, as we are discussing here, is kept within the company and in the management of the company, because otherwise all the decision-making will be split, complicated and bureaucratic and will lead to new failures. i think we should go for new success and give the company better opportunities by letting it be independent and not involved in political decision-making.
the questioner asks for age limits on gambling. there is a pg label partly funded by the eu today. in my country sweden, all computer games are age-marked with a cooperation between the industry and between the states: +3 years, +7 years, +12 years, +16 years, +18 years. furthermore, all computer games have content descriptions about discrimination, about drugs, about the scary and the ugly, about foul language, about sex and nudity and violence. there is a very good system in place today and, as i said, the eu is involved and finances it. i would like both the council and parliament to take note of this, so that we can discuss it when we come to the report on children which the commission is presenting at the moment.
member of the commission. mr president, i do not think i have ever been asked to reply, in any parliament in which i have been president-in-office, to an opening question or a speech with which i have agreed more than the speech i have just listened to. in terms of its description of the spirit, purpose and context of this exercise, i must say i thought the honourable member captured in every respect what we are doing most accurately and well. the only stage at which, i have to say, i somewhat part company is when he asks me why our services – dg trade – are applying new rules before the conclusion of the review. i have absolutely no idea what instances or issues he is referring to, and i would be pleased to hear because i do not know of any. on 29 may last year, i informed the european parliament of the necessity to review our trade defence instruments. i am pleased to be able to be back here and to update you on this process. we are now coming to the end of the consultation that we launched in december. that consultation solicited opinion from member states, business, ngos, individuals and, of course, the european parliament. what it did not do in any way was question the importance of trade defence instruments. tdi is necessary to combat unfair trade in an international economy that has no international equivalent to the competition rules we take for granted in our own domestic economies. tdi, in my view, is the flip side of an open economy. it is the guarantee that others will not abuse that openness by trading unfairly. the green paper asks if we could use tdi better, if our tools have adapted to a changing global economy and whether our rules could be clearer and operate more transparently. i think the justification for such an exercise is pretty obvious. the last review of our trade defence instruments was in 1996, and a lot has changed in the ways eu companies operate and as regards the role of global supply chains in our economy. many more eu companies now produce goods wholly or partially outside the eu for import into the eu. these changes challenge traditional understanding of what constitutes eu production and the eu’s economic interests. they make a definition of european workers’ interests harder to write, as cases are more complex. because these interests overall are those in which trade defence is rooted, that is good reason to assess the way we work and the way those rules operate. but the green paper launched a consultation; it contains no recommendations for reform and is not intended to. it puts forward a set of questions. i have repeatedly emphasised that this is an open process and i have no preconceived ideas. there was a question asked of me about the intentions behind the six categories of question in the consultation paper. they are designed simply to put the various issues in context. some are linked to the impact of globalisation on our trade defence system. others, especially those related to transparency, were raised by stakeholders and experts with whom i had informal discussions in july last year. so there are no intentions beyond the desire for intelligent debate and to rebuild the consensus and solidarity that has underpinned tdi and has come under strain in some recent cases. i fully echo the honourable member’s initial observation: we need to replace national selfishness with european solidarity, and that is what i hope to rebuild through the process of this review. i do not come to you today with substantive proposals because that is not my role at this stage. right now, we are listening. the scope of any proposed changes will depend on what we hear. somebody asked how this review fits with our attempts to reform anti-dumping rules in the wto. the honourable member reflected that question. actually, it is a rather good question. it is vital to push through the wto to ensure others match the kind of standards we apply to ourselves. we are doing that and we will keep doing that in the dda negotiations. but eu legislation on tdi already goes beyond wto requirements in many ways. the most obvious examples are the compulsory lesser duty rule and the community interest test which we apply in all investigations. these are rules we introduced because they make the system work better in the wider eu interest. of course we will push others to adopt similar rules, but reform at the international level is difficult and some of our key partners are, frankly, stubborn. so long as our refinements do not put us at a competitive disadvantage, so long as they reflect the eu’s economic interests, why should we not pursue further reform? that point relates to the question about the eu’s general posture on anti-dumping. are we protectionist or do we follow a ‘response and defence’ approach? in my view, protectionism is the shielding of a domestic industry from foreign competition, from fair competition – tough competition, yes, but fair nonetheless. that is not the intention of eu tdi policy and i will, of course, remain vigilant on that. we are not going to see our trade defence instruments turned into measures to protect eu industry from fair, legitimate competition. a protectionist does not recognise the difference between tough competition and unfair competition. we do. our system does. that is the difference between protection and protectionism. the eu process is complaint driven. we act only when eu industry can provide sufficient evidence that they are threatened by unfair trade, but we defend european production only against unfair trade, and we are bound by law to ensure that any trade defence measure is truly in the wider european economic interest. we are prudent and we are restrained but, above all, we are objective and dispassionate. a number of questions have gone right to this issue of making sure that tdi is effective and serves europe’s growth and competitiveness agenda. as you know, this review is part of the global europe framework policy that i launched last year, which is explicitly intended to put eu trade policy at the service of this growth and job strategy. beyond saying that, i think tdi can and should be part of our wider strategy for ensuring that eu companies compete on a level playing field internationally. i think it is for stakeholders to suggest how well the system is working to that end, and that is the purpose of the review. the question about the effectiveness of our measures is a good one. the possibility of review of trade defence measures always exists and measures cannot be extended without clear evidence that they are functioning as intended. the commission also undertakes internal analysis to ensure the effectiveness of its work. dg trade has recently started to analyse the impact of trade defence measures on certain companies and sectors. a credible tdi system has to be based on this sort of analysis. a question was asked about public information and about the results of the consultation process. as you know, the commission has very clear rules on the transparency of decision-making. some of you may have attended the seminar on the green paper that took place only yesterday in brussels. this event was open to the public and relayed on the website. unless a contributor requests anonymity, we are publishing all responses to the green paper on the website of dg trade. the whole process has been totally transparent. finally, on cooperation and dialogue with parliament: you know that i have constantly appeared before you on all important trade policy matters, and i will continue to do so. parliament has a very important role in the tdi reflection process. your report will be central to the ongoing review process, and i will study its recommendations very closely. i thank you for hearing me again today and i look forward to being back here again soon to discuss any and every issue of trade policy, on which i delight in remaining answerable to this house.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: trade defence instruments - the name is quite revealing - a tool to protect against trade. but protecting against trade is both expensive and foolish, and that is why few economists tend to support the use of this instrument. i myself have spoken here several times about how consumers are forced to pay a sky-high price for a limited producer interest. the fact is, however, that we will continue to have some form of trade policy safeguard. until we have a common international competition law, i think all countries will feel the need to be able to protect themselves against what they perceive as unfair trade. i therefore believe that we must now design the instrument so that it becomes legitimate and is perceived as such by all producers, importers, consumers and all member states. we must move away from the predictable conflicts of north against south and producers against importers and consumers, because these conflicts in themselves undermine confidence in the instrument and, by extension, in the eu's trade policy. if we are to have any consensus on these trade defence instruments, we need to emulate competition law more. for example, everyone i meet is calling for more transparency, more predictability and, above all, less political interference in this matter. i understand them, because it is frankly not serious that the member states are only given a few days to evaluate thousands of pages before decisions on anti-dumping duties. the fact that we have an army of consultants in brussels running around chasing rumors of commission proposals for new safeguard measures is not serious either, nor is the political adjustment country, where the excise duties can be exchanged for exemptions to the working time directive, which in turn can be exchanged for duties on norwegian salmon. all of this shows that we need a fundamental overhaul. besides, the world has changed. as global tariffs become tighter and lower, more of our trading partners are using instruments to stop imports of goods in the traditional way, and europe is the largest player in the world market, so we need to show leadership. i would therefore like to end by asking you how we can ensure that this reform does not become, in fact, a reform which, as frédéric bastiat would say, 'throws stones into our ports just because others happen to have rocky coasts'.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. free trade is not good if it is unfair, and trade protection measures are an attempt to make it fairer. i think the commission is putting too much emphasis on multinational companies and i am concerned about a redefinition of the community interest. i would like to clarify that if an eu-based transnational company is involved in social dumping or environmental dumping, either itself or through subsidiaries and subcontractors, then they cannot be counted as a community interest merely because they are registered in the eu. they must be punished for such a practice. the green paper also contains many interesting issues which we will discuss, such as greater openness and greater influence for small businesses and ngos: however, one important dimension is missing: the green paper is not green enough. i am missing the whole dimension of environmental dumping, let me remind you of paragraph 11 of the muscardini report from october: the european parliament calls on the commission to consider whether a comprehensive review of the rules on the use of trade defence measures in the wto would be appropriate. this is intended to include non-compliance with global environmental and social agreements and agreements as a form of dumping or subsidization. countries with weak environmental legislation or lacking the environmental taxes of competitors must be considered as subsidising or dumping production costs just like your traditional dumping. this will become a growing problem as global ambition increases. then there will be no free zones for environmental destruction that undermine global environmental work. we must, for example, introduce a kyoto tariff for countries which do not comply with the kyoto agreement. then we'll have others dragged before the wto and maybe we win, maybe we lose. many people think the wto is powerful, but one thing is certain: the climate is totally disregarded by the wto and will change regardless of what the wto thinks if we do not incorporate climate action into trade policy. a final comment: if we are to have solidarity and we have a 1% threshold, when will malta be able to apply these safeguard measures, when will they reach more than 1% of internal trade?
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. these reports call for the developing countries to deregulate, to give european companies power in public procurement, to protect european and north american patents, to do everything possible to protect the investments of european large companies. one of the reports even calls for the establishment of a free trade area, and i quote 'without excluding any sector'. suck on that wording. no, this is not the way we're going. the more deregulation, the better it may be for big business, but the worse it is for those who are to be protected by the laws being removed, i.e. workers, the environment and local small businesses. two examples: it's good for monsanto if they can patent crops in south america, but bad for farmers and the environment, and good for european healthcare companies if the healthcare sector is exposed to competition, but bad for those who can't afford to pay for healthcare. there is an alternative: fair trade instead of unfettered free trade, cooperation and security instead of competition and market madness. that is what the people of europe and latin america need. i shall now conclude with the position of the united left group, namely that we abstain.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's a matter of protocol. yesterday, when i was going to speak about the report on 'trade defence instruments', i wanted to quote the muscardini report from october and then i discovered that an important piece was missing, and i do not know what we are going to do now. it is from october 2006, but there is a serious error in the swedish version because the whole following text is missing in paragraph 11 and i wonder how we can correct it. the following text is missing from the chinese version: with a view to including non-compliance with global social and environmental agreements or international covenants as forms of dumping or subsidy. if the whole dimension of environmental and social dumping is missing from the swedish version, the swedish people will have a wrong picture of what parliament wants.
in writing. the report points in the right direction but contains a couple of bad proposals, including in paragraph 2, which goes against our mandate from our electors. it is important that all eu decisions be taken with respect for fundamental human rights. the report criticises the previous agreements concluded by the commission with the us authorities on the transfer of passenger data. the rapporteur points out the illegality of the secret prisoner transfers carried out by the cia on eu territory and stresses the importance of ensuring that similar human rights violations are not repeated. the report clearly shows that a european constitution is not necessary for the protection of human rights in the member states.
in writing. the report contains a lot of talk about the eu being constantly evolving and some positive writing about the constitution and more power for the new agency. this is not conducive to democracy and development. but these are standard texts which are constantly appearing in the reports of the constitutional committee. the thrill of this is the requirement that the committee on human rights be able to stop eu legislation that threatens them. this is extremely important as ever-new terrorist laws increasingly threaten the very society they are meant to protect. that is why i am voting in favour, despite the shortcomings.
in writing. the junilists believe that freer trade is good for world prosperity. the idea of free trade is that the more people involved, the better the outcome for the parties involved. this own-initiative report contains many meritorious elements which could lead to increased prosperity. unfortunately, as so often happens in this congregation, irrelevant and negative writings are added. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. unfortunately, the aspects just mentioned overshadow the desirable that could be achieved. i therefore voted against the report in today's vote.
in writing. free trade is the most important means of prosperity in the world and the more countries that participate in such free trade, the more prosperity increases in the countries that participate. bringing large parts of south and central america into a free trade area with the eu is therefore a major step towards prosperity and poverty eradication. this own-initiative report therefore contains many worthwhile proposals which, if implemented, could lead to increased prosperity. as is so often the case in this house, it unfortunately also contains a great deal of writing, the aim of which is to promote the development of the european union into a federal superpower and to increase the power of parliament at the expense of the member states. the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. despite these strong objections, i believe that it is better to conclude these regional association agreements than to stop them.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, last year i went to see the seal hunt in canada on behalf of the animal welfare intergroup. the salesmen tried to force me to stop seeing what was going on. they ran our car off the road, they sat on our helicopters so we couldn't fly, they threatened to kill us if we left our hotel to try and document the seal hunt. despite these methods, we were able to obtain photographs and we saw the incredible ferocity of the seal hunt. they knew they had something to hide. the sellers are skinned alive, they are clubbed and left to suffocate on their own blood, they are shot and drowned and shot but suffer extra hardship, because a second mercy shot costs two dollars because the fur then drops in value. it is not for conservation reasons that we should ban this hunting, it is for ethical reasons. i'd still like to say, however, that the population has declined since the last time there was a mass hunt. and now, faced with climate change, the greenland seal needs ice cover to feed its young. many babies are aborted in the water today. as the world's largest market, the eu supports this hunt and parliament has made it clear that we do not want this on our market. as bowis said, many countries have imposed national bans. when it came to cat and dog fur, the commission said: the internal market is not working, we are imposing an eu ban. the same logic applies here. does the commission want studies? there are many studies showing the problems mentioned here in the house, not least the bird and veterinary report, but these must not be a delay in necessary action. so if you want that time, we can give you that time, but then we want a temporary injunction in place until you're done, and you can find the legal basis on which to build it. i thank you for choosing the efsa animal welfare committee to carry out the study. it has been approved and has become independent and representative of the will of the countries. i would point out that in the countries that are hunting seals - canada, norway, russia and namibia - this is in no way of vital economic interest. we see from whaling that when it was abolished and replaced by whale watching it was more profitable, so we can also help the commercial hunters themselves to have a better economy if they can stop this cruel management.
a writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. despite many problems, the situation has improved since the fall of the military dictatorship in 1999. it is therefore remarkable that a law is suddenly being drafted which is detrimental to human rights. already, homosexuality is outlawed and punishable by anything from fines to 14 years in prison, and we know that there are state-level sharia laws that give 100 lashes for an unmarried person and even the death penalty for a married person. now they want to ban not only gay weddings, but also to be a witness or to help with the planning of the wedding, with up to five years in prison. can anyone here explain to me how it could be life-threateningly subversive to witness a declaration of love between two people? i can't see how that would be a criminal offense. since the law also prohibits any form of support for homosexuals to organize, lawyers and human rights activists are also at risk, making it impossible to debate the rights of homosexuals. one of the things that is actually happening today is that there is, for example, enough tolerance for homosexuality that the largest newspaper, this day, has to have lesbian personals. this law has nothing to do with the spread of aids, as some argue the vast majority of those infected are heterosexual and even if it had such reasons they would be foolish, because fixed relationships reduce the spread of infection and in such cases should encourage and facilitate marriage between homosexuals. nigeria needs more love and solidarity and it is to kick off a retreat against dictatorship and oppression if these types of laws are passed.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. the question of introducing a european tax has been raised, as there are apparently those who believe that the eu has far too little money. the aim is to solve this by allowing the eu to levy a tax directly from the pockets of its citizens. in paragraph 6 of the report, criticism is made of the requirement that all member states must agree on such matters. obviously, countries that are reluctant to do so can be overrun. this is a regrettable position, not least from a democratic point of view. the junilists strongly oppose the eu's share of national taxes. the report is intended to take another step towards an eu state with taxation rights, a common foreign minister, a common military and a common currency - a terrible idea! we have tabled an amendment in which we emphasize the inviolable right of the member states to decide for themselves in the field of taxation. we believe that all member states must agree to the introduction of some form of eu taxation. this is in line with the opinion of citizens in several eu countries. we europeans must listen to the wishes of our clients, that is to say, the views of the citizens, and act accordingly. i hope that we, ladies and gentlemen, will say a clear and unequivocal no to this report when we vote tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the financing of the eu budget has become a mess. only a few experts understand how the system works. but one thing we do know, it's short-term and it's unfair. there are therefore strong reasons to reform it towards fairness, transparency and long-term sustainability. alain lamassoure has produced an important report with which we swedish social democrats agree in all essential respects. we also want to find a simple, straightforward and fairer financing system, like a gnp-based system without rebates. we do not want to give the eu taxing rights or to undermine the sovereignty of the member states in tax matters. for me, the specific character of the eu is precisely its ability to combine fundamental national sovereignty with the ability to combine power in certain areas in order to solve cross-border social problems. to create a genuine eu tax would be to anticipate events. if we are ever to go down that road, the conviction that it is beneficial must come from below, from the citizens and the member states. that's not where we are today. i am glad that we in the socialist group have come a long way towards a more common vision which closely follows the line of lamassoure. we have therefore a broad consensus in parliament and this could be very important for the future.
in writing. we have voted against certain amendments concerning reduced percentages for gmo labelling of organic products. although we believe that organic products should be gmo-free, we are concerned that different limits for organic and other foods will be a disadvantage for organic production. we believe that gmos should be treated with caution and that measures should be taken to reduce the risk of accidental contamination, but we do not want to create an unnecessarily heavy burden of proof which could lead to a reduction in organic farming.
in writing. organic production is very important from both an environmental and a health point of view. however, we have voted against the report because we believe that agricultural products should be sold on a free market without interference at eu level. we are convinced that the free market forces, with conscious european consumers at the forefront, will be the ones to cope with the urgent need to make the transition to organic and long-term sustainable agriculture. we also believe that this development will be accelerated and that its impact will be greater if the labelling of organic products is left to the national parliaments.
in writing. we support the un's efforts to bring peace to kosovo and the work of matti ahtisaari. we voted against the statement that sovereignty for kosovo is the best way to achieve stability and a political solution for kosovo. we believe that it is not the right report to bring this up and that it is foolish to lock in such a formulation at the moment, even though it is a desirable objective in the future.
in writing. the junilists believe that the issue of kosovo must be resolved through the un, which is also about to happen. if the un then asks the eu to play a major role in this matter, we will be in favour of it. this report contains some good words, but also many bad ones. we are opposed, among other things, to the european parliament's wish to have a supervisory role in the question of establishing the status of kosovo. this is not a matter for the eu. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war. it may be desirable, but it is the serbian people who choose their government and this must be respected in the name of democracy, whatever the outcome. furthermore, the european parliament shall not have any say in the position of member states in the council of ministers, or in the way member states act in the un security council. we have voted against the report as a whole in today's vote because we felt that there were too many bad elements in the report.
in writing. we think the report is good in general. however, we have voted against all the proposals for a european tax. we also chose to support co-financing under the union's agricultural policy.
in writing. i abstained on the lamassoure report on the future of the eu's own resources. i agree that the eu's revenue and expenditure system needs to be reformed and made more transparent, but this report goes too far. i insist that the eu be financed through membership dues and do not want to see a move towards a european tax.
in writing. we supported the report on the future of professional football in europe. it is essentially a good report, which also addresses the problem of the need for smaller football clubs to have better financial conditions for youth activities. the report also mentions the possibility of national teams using players free of charge. other important aspects of the report relate to the fight against the exploitation of young players, gang violence, racism, doping and corruption. we believe that the eu should work with the governing bodies of football at national and european level (especially uefa) to solve these problems. however, we do not see today the need for any new legal instruments to solve the problems, with the exception of a possible directive on gambling agents. we also do not see the need for member states to change their social and tax legislation because of the differences between countries that create problems in the cross-border transfer of footballers. furthermore, we interpret the term 'forced prostitution' in the report as covering all prostitution, since all prostitution is done under some form of coercion.
in writing. this report should not have been discussed in the european parliament at all. this is a matter for the national football associations and their partner organisations and for the respective national parliaments. we also object to the fact that the draft report refers, among other things, to the draft eu constitution, which has already been rejected in two european referendums, to the drafting of a legal framework at eu level for football and to the consideration of the introduction of an eu legal status for sports clubs. the junilist therefore votes against this report.
in writing. we believe that the common agricultural policy should be abolished. it is unreasonable to introduce new member states into an outdated system and to accustom them to the rules and subsidies of that system. we are increasing financial aid to the new member states of the union, but this must be channelled to the less favoured regions and focused on education, infrastructure and judicial institutions.
mr president, we are against the motion for a resolution and whether we should link it to the brussels part-session, because we take the view that important issues should be dealt with in committee. we have committees in order to make the decisions of parliament strong, important and reliable and therefore we stick to that. an important issue should be dealt with in committee. that is why we have committees in this parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is a parallel proposal dealing with serious environmental offences, clearly defined offences which cause serious harm to people and cause death. despite the clear aim, the proposal is controversial, as the eu is going into criminal law. we have here a bill that aims to protect commercial interests without risk to consumers and the environment. however, this definition is much broader and creates legal uncertainty. the proposal, in its present form, is not about fighting organised crime. on the contrary, this law is itself organized crime. it is a violation of human rights and freedoms and an attack on natural communication between consumers and businesses. take the betamax example. mp3 players can now be used for copying. so you're supposed to prove that these are not criminal before you sell them? when sold, will consumers face technical limitations and barriers to using the products, music and films they have purchased? the proposal is an unreasonable attack on consumer rights which must be rejected in its entirety.
commissioner, what is it? mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission's annual policy strategy shows that we are facing major and partly new challenges. i am thinking of the climate issue, which requires action in the fields of research, the environment and energy. i am thinking of research and innovation, where it is a question of creating a europe which, according to the lisbon spirit, should be as attractive to researchers as the united states, and offer equal opportunities to translate research results into jobs and production. the implementation of the cip innovation programme and a world-class european institute of technology are key issues. i think about the balkans. we have an applicant country, croatia, which wants to join soon and still has great security needs in bosnia. we have brand new countries, including montenegro and perhaps kosovo, which will require major eu action. i am thinking of democracy and communication, which require wider popular cooperation between individuals, parties and movements. with the european elections, the debate on a new treaty and more, 2008 must be a breakthrough year for the resources of the eu's new communication strategy. the picture of what the eu does and wants must be clearer, not least in the member states. these challenges require the eu to be able to adopt political decisions, allocate budgetary resources and carry out activities that will enable us to move our positions forward. but, honestly, we've got a long way to go. the union's budget is still rigid. it is difficult to change priorities and, above all, to implement new priorities, even if the principle of redeploying staff to new political priorities is gaining ground. in the long term, perhaps already at the mid-term review, we need to have greater opportunities to invest vigorously in new areas and to reduce correspondingly in others. in today's world, the demands for change are increasing for everyone, for companies, individuals, regions and the eu as a whole. so seven years, which our long-term budget spans, is oceans of time. we need better links between legislative work and the budget. i think the eit, the european institute of technology, is an example of this. the institute is a great idea, but it becomes problematic if other research efforts have to be reduced. i mean, the rules are still often both bureaucratic and difficult to manage. the layout of the forms and the level of detail in the audit cannot be characterised as modern management, nor can the administration. many people were enthusiastic about commissioner kinnock's ambitions for a flatter organisation, better staffing policies and greater equality between women and men. now we must continue to reform in his spirit. the commission's annual policy strategy identifies the right areas, but now it is time to go on the offensive and implement them. we must then be more daring and perhaps parliament will have to play that role.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. a core element of the democratic process is the demand for accountability. the chamber's past record in this area is appalling. despite repeated reports of fraudulent behavior, irregularities, incompetence and waste, the house grants year after year a discharge with near-north korean majorities. last year, we had an exception. parliament had paid too much rent for the building we are in now. it became impossible to sweep the problem under the carpet. instead, the pathetic situation arose that the leaders of the big groups acted like "public mourners". they assured me that their refusal to grant an exemption was really just a pretense. that is how the majority of the house is managing its democratic mission. last year i was rapporteur and found it impossible to propose a discharge to the committee of the regions. a culture of corruption seemed to permeate its secretariat. although three separate investigations by the committee of the regions were still ongoing, the chamber granted a discharge. the olaf report has now been submitted. the case has been brought to the attention of national authorities. there are therefore now even stronger reasons for not granting the committee of the regions discharge this year. in addition, the rapporteur, mr herczog, has shown that neither the european maritime safety agency nor the european food safety authority should be granted a discharge. so say no to this!
mr president, i would like to thank you. between 1998 and 2005, according to official statistics, more than 215 000 people were infected with hiv in the eu. in europe, nearly 650 000 people were infected. many of them were under 25 years of age. in a way, this makes me very tired and sad. it also upsets me greatly because, as mr kyprianou said earlier, this is happening unnecessarily. these people could have avoided being infected. that is why i am very pleased that we are having this debate today. i am very pleased with the report we are voting on and with the fact that the commission and the council have indicated their willingness to give priority to these issues. the lack of knowledge about the transmission of hiv and aids is accessible. this only shows that we need to invest even more in information and openness about sexuality in general. we have to have the courage to talk about gender equality and sexual self-determination. the fact that it is above all the most vulnerable groups in society that are affected by hiv and the spread of infection shows that we need to work in new ways to really reach all groups in society. the fact that vulnerable groups are affected also poses very serious challenges to our work to combat the stigmatisation of people living with hiv. we have to prioritize this very, very hard. i am also very pleased that the report highlights the support for the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. it is a very important work which i hope we can support more. i am also very pleased that the report and several amendments point to the importance of combatting tuberculosis and hiv in parallel. i am grateful for the work we have pledged to do together to counter this completely unnecessary spread of infection.
in writing. the junilist believes that greater democratic, judicial and budgetary control of europol is desirable. however, since the europol convention is an intergovernmental cooperation, it is the national parliaments and not the european parliament which are to exercise this control. that is why we have voted against the report.
in writing. we have voted against this report. the junilist believes that a comprehensive reform of the eu sugar market is necessary to liberalise the market as soon as possible and to allow non-eu sugar producing countries to compete on fair terms. it is therefore unreasonable to drag new member states into a doomed system and to accustom them to the rules of the system. as romania and bulgaria have a functioning sugar market, they should be allowed to maintain it and not be included in the eu common organisation of the sugar market. instead, that common organisation should be abolished.
in writing. we oppose the present common agricultural policy and we oppose changes of little consequence in principle to the existing system. we are calling for a comprehensive review and reconsideration of the whole of the cap, and it is difficult to single out individual areas such as the matter now before the vote. we believe that the quota system for potato starch should not be extended at all, but that the eu must abolish all agricultural quota systems. as in may 2005, the federalist majority in parliament continues to advocate the extension of the quota system. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would just like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for supporting the two amendments i tabled. i have been trying for a long time to find out what the moving circus to strasbourg really costs and the embarrassing thing is that no one has been able to answer! so nobody knows what the moving circus costs! after all, it is not our own money that we are wasting, but the taxpayers' money. the least we and the taxpayers have the right to demand is that the cost be seriously investigated, as i have said in the two amendments i tabled today. according to the only data i have found, the travelling circus costs 2 billion swedish kronor, but that is a data from 2000, when we had only 15 member states in the eu. i hope that we will now have new figures and new fuel for this debate so that hopefully after today's vote we can take the first step towards abolishing the whole moving circus.
in writing. we swedish social democrats have voted in favour of report a6-0094/2007 on the discharge for the european parliament for 2005. the vote must be seen as a partial success, although some of the amendments on increased transparency of the pension conditions of members of the european parliament which we supported in the vote were rejected. we swedish social democrats have chosen not to be part of the european parliament's pension scheme. we believe the system is immoral in design and have therefore chosen to remain outside it. however, we do not think it necessary to vote against the whole report because these amendments were rejected, since pensions only concern a very small part of parliament's activities.
in writing. we swedish social democrats chose to support amendment no 1 on charging the council for the cost of the european parliament's activities in strasbourg, because the council denies parliament the right to decide its own seat. the best solution, however, would be for parliament itself to decide, and for parliament to choose to operate solely in brussels.
i asked to speak on question no 45, that is to say before mr de rossa was given the floor. however, i did not have the chance to put my question to mr kovács which concerned the issue we were actually discussing here, namely question 45 on excise duties on alcohol.
in writing. we voted in favour of amendments nos 43 and 44 and against the report in the final vote, as we consider that there is insufficient evidence of a legal basis under the first pillar of common criminal law in the field of intellectual property. the commission's extensive interpretation of the ecj judgment in case c-176/03 has been challenged and cannot, without further investigation, be extended in this way to the field of intellectual property.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. in cases where member states have nevertheless chosen to cooperate in this area (e.g. certain crossborder crimes), the decisions are taken by the council and the legal basis is therefore to be found in the third and intergovernmental pillar of the eu (judicial and internal affairs) and not in the first pillar, which is the supranational ec law. as long as we do not have a constitutional treaty on fundamental rights at eu level, we cannot have a common european criminal law either.
in writing. the junilists have repeatedly pointed out that criminal justice should not be a matter for the eu. this has been largely confirmed by the judgment of the court of justice of the european communities of 13 september 2005 in case c-176/03 commission v council. the rapporteur considers instead that the initiative to impose sanctions at eu level is 'fully consistent with the commission's broad interpretation of the ecj judgment'. the report is not legally defensible. we are all about freedom of speech and the right to exchange information. it is clear that the commission and many meps are bowing to the special interests of the powerful music and film industries. they do so without regard for either the clear interpretation of the ec court of justice of the eu's powers or the legal certainty of citizens. apart from a few amendments, which the junilist supports, it is difficult to find anything that speaks in favour of citizens' right to freedom of expression and the exchange of information. that is why we have decided to abstain on the amendments where we had to choose between plague and cholera. the junilista group welcomes the protection of copyright but considers the commission's proposal to be a threat to democracy. the junilist therefore votes against the report as a whole.
in writing. we have voted against this report today. the main message is that we must drastically reduce our use of natural resources and that the best method of achieving this reduction is through comprehensive policy regulation. we moderates are skeptical of this. instead, we believe that the sustainable use of natural resources requires clear ownership rights, which allow the use of natural resources to be governed by market mechanisms, not political decisions. the use of natural resources in a market economy system encourages far greater household and technological development than can be provided by political regulation. human life and creation are meant to leave footprints. the triumph of humanity is that we have developed ideas and technologies that have increased productivity and reduced world poverty by two-thirds in 50 years. we moderates believe that through production and trade we can not only end poverty but also improve our environment. it is wealth and technology that gives us the will and the means to do so.
in writing. i am voting for tax reform as a matter of principle, even though it is unfortunately formulated in the text. i believe that taxes on capital and consumption are beneficial to welfare and justice and that the eu should allow member states to exchange taxes.
in writing. i have today voted in favour of amendment no 3 by the green group to the liotard report on the sustainable use of natural resources. i support the principle of redistributing tax revenues from growth-inhibiting taxes on labour, capital and consumption to taxes on activities with a negative environmental impact. in addition, taxation should be switched from labour taxes to taxes on alcohol and tobacco. however, i could not support liotard's report in its entirety. the reason for this is a number of unfortunate writings. among other things, long-distance transport of agricultural products and consumer goods is not desirable. the trade that these transports have resulted in has helped millions of people out of poverty. what should be limited instead are the emissions generated by these transports.
in writing. we believe that enlargement of the european union is a positive thing. however, this cannot happen until the candidate countries have de facto fulfilled all the requirements for membership. the latest enlargement, with the accession of romania and bulgaria, was premature, as the countries and their systems were not yet ready for it. croatia also has a long way to go, including ongoing reforms of its public administration and judiciary, before membership can be considered. it is good to see progress being made, but we must not rush through this important and irreversible process, for the sake of croatia as well as the eu. it is also regrettable that the european parliament is using something as important as enlargement to promote the eu constitution in an undemocratic way. recital g states that the current draft constitutional treaty should enter into force despite the clear and unequivocal opposition of the french and dutch populations. in addition, paragraph 7 points out that 'public support for eu accession is waning in croatia'. if that is the case and the majority of croats are opposed to eu membership, then in the name of democracy, eu accession should not be implemented. we have therefore voted against this report.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. the fact that homophobia is still a problem in europe in 2007 is deeply regrettable and frightening. what is more regrettable is that there are colleagues in this house who are contributing to worsening the situation of lgbt people through their blatantly homophobic statements. these statements are made here in the european parliament but also to a large extent at home. when the homophobic tone is raised, it also has the consequence that lgbt people are at risk of being exposed to both physical and psychological violence, as happened at several pride parades around europe last year. even worse is when faith and religion are used as an excuse to discriminate against eu citizens. i'm sure you can figure out what i'm talking about. these are medieval values that have no place in our modern society. europe in 2007 should be more developed than that. let us fight homophobia wherever it exists, in politics, in the media and in the environments in which we all operate.
the president of the council. i want to make it clear again that this pipeline is not being planned by a state, but by private companies. these companies must submit applications. since several member states are also concerned, the relevant provisions must be observed. i said that a while ago here: there are several aspects. they called the munitions findings, which are in fact there. the ecological system and other issues must be taken into account. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. there are no special rights for one or the other company, but national and european regulations must be respected, especially as regards environmental protection.
if there is a dispute and an environmental assessment in swedish waters, is it the ecj or the swedish environmental court that will decide the case? there have been very different reports on whether the council has approved the construction of a german-russian gas pipeline under the baltic sea. has the council taken such a decision?
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good and extremely important report. we in the gue/ngl group believe that the situation of women with disabilities requires attention and action. disabled people are discriminated against, and women are discriminated against. disabled women are thus doubly discriminated against, not to mention the additional discrimination that exists if you happen to be a woman, disabled, of a different ethnic background and of a different sexual orientation. it is the responsibility of the member states and society to remove all obstacles to full participation in society for all people. particular attention must be paid to the situation of women with disabilities. the disabled person or his or her family members can never be responsible. we have a collective, shared responsibility to shape a society that is solidary and where we take responsibility for the full participation of all people. this applies in all contexts, including studies, work, social and cultural life. in several member states, women bear the main responsibility for the care of disabled children and disabled relatives. i saw a quote from a mother of a disabled child who was very vocal. she put it this way: i am not only a mother but also a physical therapist, an occupational therapist, a nurse, a neurologist, a teacher and a home improvement worker. women are not only carers but also have to fight for the rights of the disabled. i think it is very clear from this report that women often bear the main responsibility. this is not acceptable. it is not the responsibility of women but of society to provide all disabled people and their families with the conditions for independent life and self-determination. it is also a gender equality requirement. physically and mentally disabled girls and women are more vulnerable to violence and sexual abuse than other groups. so not only are they discriminated against because of their disability, but they are also abused. women with mental disabilities are particularly vulnerable, often to the abuse of someone in their immediate vicinity. it's a terrible deprivation these women live under. we need to see and expose this violence in order to stop the abuse. it is not our compassion that women with disabilities need or demand, it is their self-evident right to participate fully in society.
in writing. this report deals with the community strategy to promote the urgent objective of improving the situation of women with disabilities in the eu. we have voted against the report because we have confidence that the national parliaments of the member states will deal with this important matter in an appropriate manner. we are opposed in principle to the general trend of the eu institutions seeking to gain influence and competence in an increasing number of areas.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the rabit mechanism is necessary to respond to the extraordinary migratory pressure that some of the eu member states are periodically subjected to. rabit is based on volunteerism and is not an attempt to build walls against the outside world. i believe that it is rather important for the member states to work together to combat effectively trafficking in human beings and illegal smuggling, which are often associated with the danger to the lives of those who have been forced to leave their home countries in desperation. thousands of people die each year trying to reach europe by unsafe means. rabit is part of the effort to prevent people from dying at the hands of cynical human traffickers. as a social democrat, i am committed to a generous and humane refugee policy and want to increase the opportunities for people to seek legal asylum in europe.
in writing. we have voted against the report because we believe that the tonnage redistribution levels proposed by the commission are sufficient. we also question the increased support for an already over-established sector. the eu already has a large overcapacity in its fishing fleet and limited fisheries resources. the difficulties in checking that the fishing capacity does not increase in the event of conversion, which have been discussed in the council, are therefore one of the reasons why we have chosen not to support an increase in these levels.
in writing. we believe that human rights are universal and inviolable, and that they must be one of the cornerstones of all societies. unfortunately, violations occur in many places around the world, including in the eu member states. a large proportion of the european parliament and its members see themselves as the guarantors of human rights in the world. there should be no shadow cast on them, because they are certainly well-intentioned and it is necessary to fight for these fundamental rights. the problem arises when human rights are used as a means of advancing eu positions on, for example, the development of a common foreign and security policy. we have voted against a number of amendments which we consider to be logical, reasonable and in some cases even desirable, but which should under no circumstances be expressed or decided by this house.
in writing. we voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses the importance of preventing discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. we do not support the conclusions of the resolution in the parts which propose greater powers and decision-making powers for the eu. our support for this resolution is only a vote against the abhorrent discrimination against people on the grounds of sexual orientation. we are opposed to all the conclusions of the resolution on the question of more powers for the eu in various areas.
author of the motion for a resolution. president. - the debate is closed. last year, a record number of journalists were kidnapped and killed around the world. it is now our duty to ensure that that record is not beaten in 2007. it is our duty to help alan johnston be released. i address his family, relatives and colleagues, and i must say that my hopes for his release are high. we know that palestinian leaders condemn the kidnapping. we know the kidnappers don't have the support of the palestinian people. we know they understand that alan johnston has done more than anyone to report on their suffering over the last 16 years. with these factors behind us, we can also help to get him released. i've been to gaza myself, and i know how hard it is there. but its best chance of getting us all to help the people to a better situation is to make sure that as many journalists as possible are there and that as many as possible are writing about what is happening there. since the palestinian people know that this kidnapping is against their interests, i am sure that the kidnappers will not receive any support and will eventually have to release alan johnston.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. the eu's structure and cohesion policy are seriously flawed. its existence should therefore be strongly questioned, primarily for three reasons. firstly, these measures are artificial breathing which do not lead to longterm and sustainable development. we must accept that the world is changing as a result of globalisation. whoever's competitive today could be out of the game tomorrow. the second reason concerns funding. money flows from the poor in rich countries to the rich in poor countries. this is not acceptable either. thirdly and lastly, the rules governing the allocation of structural funds are far too rigid and narrow. the member states, regions and local authorities therefore have problems in being able to use the money where it is really needed. the situation in the eu member states varies widely. therefore, the current policy is not sustainable. i therefore believe that structural policy should be re-nationalised.
in writing. the junilists believe, as is well known, that neither the eu nor its institutions should conduct foreign policy. a pattern that is repeated in the european parliament is that relations with a third country start at the level of trade policy. we are positive about this. the problem arises when policy areas are extended from being trade-only to, for example, foreign, aid or fisheries policy. the eu will be strictly concerned with trade issues as well as cross-border environmental issues. amendment no 9 by the verts/ale group is desirable in itself. however, it should not be dealt with by the european parliament, as it is a matter of foreign policy. ahtisaari has, on behalf of the un, drawn up a plan for kosovo. however, it is not the task of this assembly to give its opinion on either the plan or the course of action to be taken by russia. given the problems in russia, including the lack of respect for human rights and the rule of law, the expansion of trade is positive. however, when it comes to purely foreign policy issues, it is the national parliaments and governments and the un that should lead the way.
in writing. the european parliament has today adopted a position on how the eu should act to bring about reforms in the arab world. we strongly oppose this, because this kind of issue must be resolved through the united nations. the alde group's amendment no 20 proposes that the eu should not support 'fundamentalist and extreme nationalist' movements. this goes without saying, but the eu should not be pursuing its foreign policy by supporting movements in other parts of the world. that is why we voted against that amendment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the eu as an institution should definitely not have views on the system of another country. as we do not consider this to be an eu issue, we voted against the report as a whole in today's vote.
in writing. since the european union is also a union of values which must safeguard the human rights of every individual within the union, we have chosen to vote in favour of this report. we believe that this is a reasonable balance between pointing out what we consider to be the ethical-political necessity for a member state and respecting the sovereignty of the member states. we therefore consider it to be the duty of denmark to take medical responsibility for those who, on the orders of the danish state, carried out work which may have caused radiation injuries in connection with the thule accident in 1968.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report on housing and regional policy. it is positive that the report highlights the role of housing policy in strengthening social and territorial cohesion. housing policy is an important instrument for member states to combat segregation, and the right to housing is fundamental. we believe that housing policy is an important part of the welfare policy of the member states. in sweden, the utility is a socially motivated form of enterprise, and the swedish rental legislation is a social protection legislation. the eu should consider the housing policies of the member states as an integral part of welfare policy and thus exempt them from competition rules on state aid. we also believe that the eu should define the concept of social housing broadly, so that it also covers the swedish model of public housing.
in writing. today we voted in the european parliament on a report which describes the need for housing of reasonable quality and affordable rent for all. for me, as a liberal, it is of course very important that people have a roof over their heads, but this is a matter that should be dealt with locally or regionally, not at eu level. that's why i dropped my vote today.
member of the commission. madam president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to discuss this issue again with you. we have discussed it on numerous occasions, including in committee. we are dealing with a real situation today. on the one hand, there are a series of judgments by the european court of justice and the jurisprudence created in this field and, on the other, the decision of the european parliament, which the commission has accepted and agreed to, not to include health services in the services directive. as promised, at the time when the debate was taking place and upon the exclusion of health services from the services directive, we initiated action in a specific area of healthcare at european level; hence our initiative to begin with a consultation document, to start public consultation and then to continue with a more specific proposal. the public consultation is finished and we already have the results. we have already had two ministerial discussions on this issue and, with your debate today, we will have a more complete picture of the position not only of the institutions but also of the european citizens and we will then be ready for the next phase, which will be the drafting of the proposal. i can assure you that today’s discussion and of course the report will make a significant contribution as to how we will proceed in this respect. therefore i should like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate her on a very thorough and comprehensive report and i should also like to thank the other committees for contributing to it. we are in the middle of this process, which allows us to bring the setting of policies back to the policymakers – those who have the mandate to decide and propose policies will do so in this important area. as i have said, we have finished the consultation process. we had more than 300 contributions from member states, regional authorities, organisations representing patients and professionals as well as healthcare providers – even hospitals and individual citizens. even though there were different views depending on the background of each contribution, there was nevertheless one common approach: there is added value if european action is taken in this respect. the debate goes beyond patient mobility and covers many other areas, such as information for patients, patients’ rights, the movement of professionals, cooperation of healthcare assistants, centres of excellence, exchange of best practice in all areas that could contribute to effective cross-border healthcare for the benefit of patients, the citizens – our foremost concern – without creating any unnecessary burden on the healthcare systems in the member states. all these contributions and your report today will be a very important reference point for our next step, which will be a specific proposal. we recognise that health services have a specificity – they are distinct from other services in the european union – and therefore the challenge is how to make a choice between the internal market and social values and put in place a framework that can bring both the benefits of freedom of movement on the one hand and respect for health objectives and social values on the other, especially as this was recently confirmed by the health ministers at the informal council meeting in aachen. i believe that parliament’s report broadly reflects the issues that were identified by many stakeholders and the ministers. this underlines the need to take action at european level. concerning the instrument we can use, as i said at the beginning, last year health services were excluded from the scope of the services directive at the request of the european parliament, and the commission was invited to come up with specific proposals on health services. the commission agreed to this approach and therefore it does not intend to reopen the discussion regarding possible reinclusion in the services directive. on the contrary, we are now in the final stages of preparing a specific proposal directed at those specific issues. it will be a package with various measures, but the first one will comprise, as called for in the report, specific legislative proposals in this area. we will follow this up with various other steps. however, as i have said, the main objective for all of us is the benefit of european citizens, of european patients, with the principle of subsidiarity always being taken into account.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. this case is not about the services directive, although you might think so by listening to the debate. it is really a question of how we are going to solve the problems caused by the fact that health services are not covered by the services directive and, not least, how patients and service providers are going to be able to maintain their crossborder rights despite this. today's rights are based on the treaties and on different cases and must not be undermined by secondary legislation, at least not without the citizens being informed about it. it is not a question of introducing new services or new rights, but of upholding the rule of law and existing rights. according to the court, the order for reference is a standard method of limitation. we in the ppe-de group do not want to increase the use of advance notice. we consider that the few cases which the court has accepted as legitimate obstacles to the principle of free movement of persons and services are sufficient. some advanced health care requires planning with fixed structures and funding. i think that the member states must have a certain degree of freedom of movement in this area. as many speakers have already pointed out, there are great differences between the member states. the commission should choose the appropriate instruments to deal with the different elements of this major package and focus on solutions that promote mobility, freedom and security for the individual eu citizen. it is the people who must be protected, not the national bureaucracy. we are not opposed to the fact that specialisation in the eu leads to a higher quality of care for patients. as european citizens, we have crossborder solutions to tackle. we have a right to them as patients and as staff. the commission is responsible for proposing solutions, and the council is also responsible for the implementation of the european social fund. i call on the commission to codify the case law and to emphasise the responsibility of the member states for the content of health care and not to accept fewer rights for citizens than today. parliament and the commission must stand side by side.
it is not long since the two major groups came to a compromise on the services directive and some described the exemption for health care as a tremendous success. now, however, this deregulation is being tried behind the scenes, which means that people's health and care are being transformed from human rights into commodities in a market. under the treaties, health care is the exclusive responsibility of the member states and legislation at eu level is neither required nor desirable. cooperation is good, but not legislation in this case. i hope that those who thought that the removal of health care from the services directive was a success will make sure to follow up that success by supporting the gue/ngl amendments when we vote.
i would like to thank mrs gröner and commissioner frattini for their excellent work. i was responsible in the libe committee for sending this report back to the women's committee where it belongs. for us swedish social democrats daphne is a matter of the heart because it was swedish commissioner anita gradin who was so strongly committed to the eu's role in combating violence against women. as long as men are committing violence against women and children, as long as there is sex trafficking of women and young girls, as long as not all women in the eu have the right to free abortion, as long as women in the eu are victims of honour violence and as long as women's rights in the eu need to be strengthened, we social democratic women will continue to fight for daphne and for the programme to receive proper financial support. i regret that we did not receive support for the establishment of a network of children's ombudsmen, but i will return to this issue with commissioner frattini and others when we decide on the children's strategy. the great thing about daphne is that it is an opportunity for organisations to try out new ideas and to be inspired by good examples that we can use in the fight against violence across the eu.
first of all, i'd like to start by thanking daniel caspary. i have to say that this is one of the best reports on trade policy that i have seen in this parliament. it is clearly stated here that free trade spreads prosperity and that protectionism spreads poverty. it is a good step forward that we can say this together in the european parliament! the commission's global europe initiative on the external dimension of competitiveness is also very good. trade policy should have been part of the lisbon agenda from the outset. otherwise, to talk about european competitiveness without talking about our trade with the rest of the world will be mere words. and now that you're here, i'd like to take this opportunity to send you two comments, peter mandelson. firstly, i have noticed that the commission often talks about competitiveness, but then almost only about the importance of increasing market access and lowering tariffs in other countries. but it is just as important to increase access and opportunities for companies from other countries to come here and to lower our own tariffs. it would not only provide european consumers and businesses with cheaper goods, but also increase competition and thus strengthen our competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world. so it is at least as important that we lower our own tariffs as it is that others do so. the second point i would like to make is the need to reform the trade defence instruments. on that point, i do not agree with the report before us. i understand that the pressure on the commission has been very great since this initiative was put forward. unfortunately, this pressure seems to be leading to a lower level of ambition on the part of the commission. the rhetoric has gone from talking about reform to talking about review, but i expect the commission to present a reform of the trade defence instruments that is worthy of the name. the idea that the eu is supposed to protect us from trade is as silly as it sounds. i also want to mention one of my favorite examples of absurd trade barriers, namely the eu's strange tariffs on low-energy light bulbs. because while we are worried about the greenhouse effect and talking about banning ordinary light bulbs, we are protected from importing low-energy light bulbs by high tariffs! no, peter mandelson, we must urgently reform the trade defence instruments in a major way!
there are three keywords that the commission needs to follow in the negotiations: listen, do not force and do not stress. we'll listen to their demands. these negotiations are not equal. you, peter mandelson, have hundreds of experts at your disposal. they have a few. we have enormous economic power. they're just a budding business. we can buy their entire business. they barely have enough money to buy food for the day. with such different conditions, it is important that we listen to their demands and try to meet them. the epa is supposed to be for their development, not our profit. so we should not force them. if they do not want to open up a market, then, as stated in paragraph 17 of the resolution, we should not force them to do so. all trade experts trained in neoliberal thinking believe that reduced tariffs are always good and that free trade is always better than fair, but the reality shows that this is not so. and that is the reality of our negotiating partners. a wrong liberalization can lead to people dying. you can explain your views, but let them make the decisions. if they're wrong, it's their fault. it is easier to live with the defects for which you are responsible and can change than to live in misery imposed by others. reciprocity is not necessary. let them decide. we can live with it and we can live without it, but they can die from it. finally, let's not stress. i therefore hope that the house will strike out recital f and approve amendment no 4. let the negotiations take the time they need and in the meantime let the system of generalised preferences continue. then they can continue to sell to us without having a sword of damocles hanging over them. we the 27 together with the acp countries form a dominant group in the wto. if we wish, we can say together that we need to extend the time for negotiations or to work out alternatives to economic partnership agreements.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report because, unlike the commission's proposal, it preserves the possibility of national labelling, but i regret that it nevertheless advocates that eu labelling should be the dominant label.
for the gue/ngl group. the gue/ngl group naturally deplores the disproportionate reactions in russia and we naturally demand that russia comply with its international commitments under the vienna convention. that said, it must also be stated that no party is served by an escalation of the conflict which may result from acts or unannounced resolutions and statements. building bridges and dialogue between parties is better than erecting walls and barriers. it is also indisputable that the discrimination and the restriction of civil rights of the russian-speaking population in estonia is the main breeding ground for conflicts. the responsibility for the conflict we are discussing also lies with the government of estonia, which does not respect the civil rights of the russian-speaking population. it is responsible for the fact that no dialogue was held with the residents of tallinn before the monument was moved and that the significance of the monument to a huge number of people as an important reminder of all those who lost their lives in the fight against nazism and fascism was ignored. it is also regrettable that the escalation of the conflict was a reaction to the fact that the estonian authorities did not allow peaceful demonstrations and the further escalation was a consequence of the actions of the estonian police against the demonstrators. the estonian move to move an anti-nazi memorial and the remains of soldiers who died in the war against hitler's troops is perceived as a provocation by all those who think that the fight against nazism should be remembered in the future. no one has the right to rewrite history, and political views must not prevent serious analysis and understanding of how conflicts arise. only then can we solve conflicts in the future.
i think it is perfectly clear to everyone what has happened in tallinn since april this year. however, i'm not sure everyone understands what that means. the previous discussions in parliament on this matter indicate that not everyone understands why some have reacted so strongly. so let me explain. even at the time of his election as president, putin hinted that he would do everything in his power to restore russia to its former military strength and the power that he considered to be its rightful own. if i remember correctly, it was only a french newspaper that directly picked up the signals from russia. the other media didn't see them. we who speak russian and have experience of living near or under russia - we understood. over the years, however, it has become increasingly clear that developments in russia are going in the wrong direction, both in terms of human rights, media independence and political freedom. otto von habsburg, one of europe's most respected political figures, described it as a return to the stalinist era. he's 95 years old today, he has perspective, he remembers. but others seem to have forgotten. even in the european parliament there are members who seem to have forgotten the trials that the eastern european states had to endure on their way to freedom, independence and sovereignty. all the threats and boycotts, the interference in the internal affairs of other countries and the blackmailing by means of the lack of energy supplies seem to have been forgotten. some of these events have taken place quite recently and are taking place at this very moment in some of the countries which i refer to as the new europe. but some of the old europe seems to have forgotten its historical lesson - that only through a common foreign policy and solidarity and with one voice can we defend peace. this is not about the monument in tallinn. the debate is not about estonia. the debate is about europe and european sovereignty and independence.
elmar brok preaches the importance of the eu having a foreign minister and its own embassies around the world. he said that only 18 countries had ratified the constitutional treaty, but that it "must be fully ratified". taste that wording: 'it must be ratified in full'. this means that the will of the people of two of the eu's founding countries is being ignored. that is what happens here in strasbourg and in brussels. and as always, the mantra is that europe must speak with one voice. that means 27 votes to be silenced. what will the remaining voice say? to take one example: the invasion of iraq was supported by a coalition of will, including the uk, italy, spain, poland, the netherlands, denmark and several other countries. a united european union would have probably agreed to the invasion and german soldiers would have been forced into war against the determined will of the bundestag. think about it and think about it! to speak with one voice, there must be a people with one identity, but we europeans have different identities.
i would just like to raise a matter of overtime. all speakers must be treated equally. if everyone else is allowed to speak, then my colleague on the left must also be allowed to speak, even if he does not share the views of the president.
for the alde group. astrid lulling, you have many good points, but you also sometimes strike a blow, and you do so with this report. i will recommend to my group that we reject your proposal as a whole and follow the commission's lead. a report on alcohol price levels must also take account of the public health implications of increased drinking. but there's no mention of public health. the abolition of excise duties on alcohol and beer would send the wrong signal. we know that the harmful effects of alcohol are increasing and we know that more and more young people in europe are literally being torn apart, not just in the nordic countries. every day rivers of beer, wine and spirits roll into sweden, half a million cans of beer and 65,000 bottles of spirits. this is due to the wide differences in alcohol taxation. higher common excise duties within the eu can play an important role here. the cost margin matters a lot in this context because the consumers we are talking about are price sensitive. europe must not grow together through alcohol tourism. i am not asking the eu to impose swedish taxes, that would be foreign to me, but what i am asking for is consideration and solidarity also with other countries and their inhabitants. that is why excise duties on alcohol must be increasingly harmonised. we europeans drink the most alcohol in the world. last year the commission presented a strategy to reduce alcohol-related harm. if we in this house want to follow the commission's line, we have only one thing to do: reject this report.
for the verts/ale group. those who want to abolish the minimum tax on alcohol in the name of subsidiarity must accept that at the same time, in the name of subsidiarity, a restriction on the private importation of alcohol is allowed. otherwise, countries with high excise taxes will be completely flooded with cheap privately imported liquor and will have to pay the bill with high health care costs. without import restrictions, the country with the lowest taxes will be the one imposing its alcohol policy on everyone else. how can you bring 200 kg of wine, beer and spirits but only 15 kg of fresh fish across the eu's borders? furthermore, it is absurd to have zero tax on wine when there is tax on beer and spirits. it is even more absurd when sweden is taken to court for favouring the beer sector by imposing high taxes on wine. the eu is distorting the single market by its zero tax on wine. alcohol is not a normal commodity. it is irresponsible and uneconomic to see this as a matter of the internal market, as the committee does, without regard to public health.
heavy alcohol consumption is associated with severe social penalties, so-called negative externalities. to help us understand the problem, a parallel can be drawn to the taxes on motor fuel. these fuels are taxed because they have harmful effects on the environment. by imposing a tax, the environmental damage caused by incineration can be counteracted. in this way, the cost is internalized and the polluter pays. the same principle can be applied to the sale of alcohol. countries' health systems are being strained by alcohol-related diseases. the alcohol tax has two effects in this case, firstly it is consumed less by a product if it is taxed, and secondly the tax revenue represents an addition to the state treasury. this money can then be used to provide care for people with alcohol-related injuries. as far as the minimum cat is concerned, we believe that, where they exist, it is better to keep them than to remove them. nor should exceptions be made for some alcoholic beverages, as is done today.
i think that the commission's original proposal for a 1993 census was the best, but i realise that in order to reach a compromise in the council, a 2004 census is the only possible one. why am i in favour of the commission's proposal? yes, because of the arguments that have been made earlier. i want taxes, minimum taxes on environmentally harmful activities, because i want to reduce environmentally harmful activities. so is alcohol. alcohol costs us a lot in terms of public health. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the level of pollution. a strange argument has been made in this debate. it is said that this moderate increase would affect inflation. for this to be true in any one country, the consumption of alcohol and thus the alcohol problem there must be so enormous that it would really be time to raise the tax.
in the last 15 years, we have seen a radical change in europe with the reduction of mobile phone prices. there are few areas where prices have fallen as much as in this particular area. this has been true in particular of national calls, but also international ones, which is worth remembering on a day like today. the problem has been that, as the commissioner pointed out, we have 27 different markets instead of one. i therefore congratulate both the commissioner and the rapporteur, mr paul rübig, on the fact that we have today a decision which means increased transparency and also that we have a regulation of competition between mobile operators and retailers. it solves the crucial problem that has led to excessive roaming charges. this will create better conditions for competition. i think we should have stopped there and i regret that we now also have a proposal for consumer price regulation. all experience shows that price controls do not achieve the desired result. we risk locking the price trend around the regulated level. we risk reducing the pressure of increased competition between different operators to lower prices for both national calls and roaming. we risk not seeing the kind of rapid price reductions we have seen in the past. without exaggerating these risks, i would say that it would have been better if we had simply regulated where we have the problem, namely prices between retailers and operators. i say this because the task of the european union is not and should not be to regulate prices at the consumer level. the eu must do what the commissioner pointed out earlier today, namely to make sure that we go from 27 different markets to one market. that is the dynamic and that is what we should be focusing on, not regulating consumer prices but regulating so that we have a comprehensive and good competition between operators.
it is a fundamental principle that the european union is not responsible for regulating prices everywhere on the market. the treaty gives us the power and the responsibility to protect consumers, to ensure that the market functions and that we have fair and open competition. in this case, for many years we have received very clear signals from desperate parents with children studying abroad, elderly people who have not read the fine print in their telephone contracts and also from parts of the industry that this market is not working. it's not transparent, it's not fair. that is why we have been working on the roaming issue since we were elected to the european parliament three years ago. the problem was raised in our first discussion with commissioner viviane reding. for three years we - the commissioner, the council and parliament - have been working together to ensure that the market voluntarily corrects the errors that exist by means of price comparisons and open benchmarks. that has not been the case. the major distortions have remained unchanged. it is therefore no surprise that the legislative proposal is coming and i welcome it because it is our job to ensure that we have a functioning competition in the internal market. we are tasked with making strategic and systematic decisions that pave the way for an open market function and i hope that in these three years the industry will see to it that its business practices are changed and that it is reported and explained to its customers in such a way that this three-year legislation becomes a one-off and that we can leave this kind of intervention on the market. i would like to thank you for the cooperation we have had between the political groups and with the commission and the work that has led to this, in my opinion, generally sensible regulation.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, but also the commission, for a very well balanced report and also for the commission's position. the fight for decent work starts in the eu. it is about fighting undeclared work, but also about decent working conditions in the eu, about a living wage, about having the opportunity to develop in one's work and to have an influence in the workplace. if we are to pursue these issues globally, we must first of all live up to the principle of decent work at home, and we are not doing that fully. we must also constantly work with the situation in all eu member states. in international work we have ilo conventions that are good to work with. it's important to have open borders and trade and that's something i'm a big supporter of. but it is also important that we work at the same time to ensure good environmental and working conditions for people in countries that are poorer than the eu countries. there too, the right to organise and to decent wages and working conditions is at stake. what are the responsibilities of the various actors? it is clear that the eu has a responsibility as an international actor in the context of trade and other matters. the member states have a responsibility, but companies also have a responsibility, including a social responsibility. sometimes, contradictions are built up between the opportunity for growth and decent work. but i think they are interconnected: without decent work, we will not have long-term sustainable growth.
in writing. the report contains many concrete proposals to improve the situation of consumers. junilista welcomes these proposals which benefit citizens in terms of consumer information and easy access to price information. roaming charges certainly seem unreasonably high today. however, before deciding on policy measures, it must be clarified which market failure explains the abuses. is it a case of lack of competition through so-called implicit collusion? in that case, it is absolutely wrong to introduce price regulation, because that does not solve the problem at all. suggesting a treatment without prior diagnosis is unreasonable. researchers in this field should be able to understand the market failure we are facing before populist measures are taken. in the long run, it is free competition and not price regulation that benefits consumers the most. letting politicians set prices instead of the market is almost never a good long-term solution. i also believe that the proposal will affect the part of the population which, for economic or other reasons, rarely travels abroad.
in writing. the report contains many concrete proposals to improve the situation of consumers. junilista welcomes these proposals which benefit citizens in terms of consumer information and easy access to price information. roaming charges certainly seem unreasonably high today. however, before deciding on policy measures, it must be clarified which market failure explains the abuses. is it a case of non-competition through so-called implicit collusion? in that case, it is absolutely wrong to introduce price regulation, because that does not solve the problem at all. suggesting a treatment without prior diagnosis is unreasonable. researchers in this field should be able to understand the market failure we are facing before populist measures are taken. in the long run, it is free competition and not price regulation that benefits consumers the most. letting politicians set prices instead of the market is almost never a good long-term solution.
in writing. today i voted for the roaming directive. anyone who has been abroad knows that it is very expensive to make and receive calls, but there are risks in the eu's price caps. i could have accepted regulation at wholesale level, i.e. the relationship between, say, telia and a company in spain, but i do not accept that a ceiling is put on the price for the consumer. it's not a roof, it's a floor. if you set the ceiling at 49 cents, that's obviously what the companies will charge. the profits of the companies will be reduced as they have withdrawn money that could have been used to compete on the national arena. if profits disappear, this may lead to companies having to raise their domestic prices. the eu has instead weakened the vulnerable consumer it claims to be protecting. the mobile market is a relatively new market and in sweden the market has gradually adjusted and prices have fallen significantly. if only the transparency of the system had been increased, if better technical solutions had been sought and the information systems mentioned in the proposal had been introduced, this would probably have been sufficient to put pressure on prices. roaming charges have fallen substantially, albeit unevenly across europe, but this is nevertheless a sign that the market is self-regulating.
in writing. we swedish social democrats would have liked parliament to have supported the commission's original proposal to raise the minimum tax rates in line with inflation since 1993. the vote was expected to be very evenly split, so we decided to support the amendments on raising the minimum rates to take account of inflation since enlargement in 2004. we welcome the fact that the report has now been referred back to committee and hope that this time the committee will come to the conclusion that alcohol taxes are needed to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol in the eu.
in writing. we have voted against this report because it does not deal with the conflicts of objectives which are at the heart of the problem. the fact is that the right of the member states to decide on such a central issue as alcohol policy is in conflict both with the requirement of a free internal market and with the right of the member states to decide independently on their tax systems. alcohol is not just any commodity, the internal market is the heart of the eu and the right to tax is one of the most important assets of a sovereign state. the rapporteur has made no attempt to analyse and resolve these conflicts of interest. the issue should therefore be seriously considered by experts and political representatives with insight into the subject before new proposals are put to parliament.
in writing. we have voted against this report, partly because we believe that the member states should be able to decide for themselves which care services can be subject to prior notification. we believe that a system of planned care whereby a person can receive a prompt advance notice after a medical examination would be desirable for the people receiving care, a system which provides equal access to crossborder care for all and not just for those who can afford to pay for it themselves and then wait for reimbursement. we have voted in favour of amendments which favour political decisions over the case law of the court of justice, although we doubt that all political initiatives should be subject to a codecision procedure by parliament. we also voted in favour of a letter which contains references to freedom of establishment, but stresses that we do not believe that this should necessarily mean access to public funds.
in writing. we swedish social democrats do not think that the elmar brok report is the right forum for discussing the treaty and what it should and should not contain. we believe that foreign policy cooperation should be strengthened, but we do not think it appropriate at this stage to commit ourselves to having a common eu foreign minister. that is why we have decided to abstain on these points.
in writing. i voted against elmar brok's report a6-0130/2007, partly because the rapporteur has chosen to bring up the question of the constitution, but also because he raises the question of the eu having a common foreign minister. we do not have ministerial posts in the eu today and we should not have them. all the member states already have their own foreign ministers. what's the next step? a common environment minister and eventually a common prime minister?
in writing. we swedish social democrats in the european parliament gave our support to the report. the report is good and we give our full support to the eu's commitment to decent work. it is important that we can guarantee people productive work, carried out in free, fair and secure conditions, both within the eu and internationally. we would, however, like to make a number of clarifications. it is important to point out that a tax on financial and foreign exchange transactions must be international, because a european tax would disadvantage countries outside the monetary union. we oppose common standard definitions of forced labour and exploitation of the vulnerable. the ilo definition shall be the basis and further definitions shall be submitted to the member states. the report calls on member states to consider minimum wages. we have already done this in sweden and have actively chosen a solution where this is left to the social partners.
in the summer of 1787, a number of individuals sat in philadelphia, pennsylvania, and worked out a constitution for what would become the united states of america. they were at the forefront of their time's knowledge of politics, philosophy, and democracy. they presented a proposal openly and honestly, and they got popular support and support from the states. how different is the process now under way to impose a constitution on the eu countries? the eu's political elite knows that they lack popular support for their plans for a united states of europe. the negotiations are being conducted in secret. it is not a question of democratically anchoring the european project, but of a game of blinds. for example, angela merkel asks whether it might be a good idea to change the terminology of the constitutional proposal without changing the legal substance. the flag and anthem proposals shall be deleted. the whole thing is designed to enable the political elite to push for a united states of europe without having to win the confidence of the people in the project. this is fraudulent.
i want to thank everyone for finally reaching an acceptable compromise. india, pakistan and kashmir are not traditional issues for me as a swedish social democrat and eu parliamentarian, but my commitment becomes very strong when i read the first draft and hear representatives of various parties from the uk in particular debate. our job is not to live in the past or take a stand for or against india and pakistan. we have a responsibility for what is happening in kashmir and for human rights there. our task as members of the european parliament is to see if we can play a role and then offer our support and experience and thus help to resolve the kashmir conflict. what's going on, and has been going on for so long, is a scandal! i believe that two civilized countries like india and pakistan should be able to take greater joint responsibility and draw up a timetable for concrete results and, of course, be helped to fight terrorism. if this does not happen, the un and the eu must intervene more seriously than before. the eu's strategy is to put pressure through agreements, support and contacts. i wish we had gone further and been prepared to support a referendum, but i realise we are not there yet. what kashmir wants must guide our future work and that of all who wish to take responsibility for the region. i would like to urge everyone to think about peace, not prestige and history, but the present and the future. and as jo leinen said: if france and germany could bring peace to europe and start the eu, then i am convinced that india and pakistan can bring freedom and peace to kashmir.
in writing. it is good that the legal framework is being simplified, but at the same time export subsidies and other intervention aid are still in place. i can never accept that, and that's why i'm not going.
in writing. once again, the european parliament's committee on agriculture has drawn up a report opposing the reform of the common agricultural policy. we want to abolish the common organization of the market in cereals. however, we support the commission's proposal to the european parliament's committee on agriculture, because the committee now wants to oppose the abolition of intervention buying of maize. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
in writing. since we believe that foreign policy, and therefore foreign policy statements, should not be conducted at eu level, we have voted against all the amendments and against the report as a whole. there is no doubt that many of the proposals are desirable in themselves, but neither the eu nor the european parliament should have competence in these matters.
in writing. i support the resolution because we consider that russian interference in what has happened in estonia is very serious and unacceptable. i am opposed to paragraph 8. it is up to each sovereign state to decide whether or not to enter into a dialogue. paragraph 7 comments on the internet attacks that have been carried out. it is a very serious matter, but i do not think that the eu should draw up a plan for this, because the matter is best handled at member state level.
mr president, i have three points. firstly, it is important that we do not let the problems with the new treaty overshadow developments in the european union and our achievements. in a way, our achievements are the best arguments for a new treaty. they give us new responsibilities and underline the need for new power to make decisions. if the european union were a failure, no one would have turned to us to deal with climate change or to contribute to stability in the balkans. we would have had no new applications for membership. let us not forget that achievements are the main arguments for a new treaty. secondly, we must ensure that the new treaty results from political challenges and not from different political symbols. we must be able to welcome new members and to have clear, democratic control and accountability with regard to the common decisions we make. we must have the opportunity to make the necessary decisions in order to fight crime, to meet the challenges of environmental and energy policy and to secure stability in our neighbourhood and in other parts of the world where it is needed. thirdly, we need to understand and make sure that it is more important to have a common foreign policy than a common foreign minister. it is more important to be able to make crucial decisions than to have an elected president of the european council. it is more important to ensure that we are able to make decisions in all the areas where we face challenges today. that is more important than symbols are. we need a treaty, not necessarily exactly the one under discussion.
thank you very much, mr. speaker. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for presenting a well-balanced proposal which means that the european parliament is firm in its views on the treaty but at the same time is realistic and understands that there will be changes. these changes must not be made at the cost of a mini-treaty dealing only with institutional matters. we must take account not only of the two countries that have said no, but also of all the countries that have said yes. a new treaty must reflect the issues that citizens consider important. the climate threat must have a place, social europe must have a place, and it is important - as others have said - that enlargement can be achieved. however, i do not think that the solution is to incorporate the copenhagen criteria into the treaty. what is needed instead is institutional reform. it is also important that we do not just talk about openness in europe. the process now under way must be open and in dialogue with the citizens, so that we can have a debate during the process. i would also like to say this to the far right, which often preaches interstate versus supranational: the most supranational proposals of all have been put forward from the far right. the aim is to force member states to hold a referendum. it is up to the member states themselves to decide how to deal with this constitutional treaty. the right wing has gone too far.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. thank you, mr president! as the rapporteur on cod fisheries in the committee on the environment, i would first of all like to express my regret that so few of our views are included in the report on which we are voting tomorrow. we have a shared responsibility to ensure that cod fishing in the baltic sea will continue in the future. the situation for cod is serious. despite reduced quotas, the cod stock is close to the critical limit. if we are to prevent the stock from collapsing completely, we need even stricter allocations of quotas. these quotas must be based on science, not political nightmares, because the focus must be on the environment and the long-term sustainability of fisheries, not short-term labour market policy objectives. i can only regret that the committee on fisheries seems to be reasoning exactly the opposite. the commission's proposal for reduced fishing quotas is a step in the right direction, but it will not help if we do not see that it is respected. because while there are many threats to cod, the biggest threat is poaching, illegal fishing. it is said that between 35 and 45 percent of the total amount of cod landed is poached. the most important thing is therefore not new rules but guarantees that the rules are being complied with at all. i therefore cannot understand why the committee on fisheries refuses to accept, among other things, my demands that we take a hard line against those countries which turn a blind eye to poaching - and we know who they are, that is the scariest thing of all. in the long term, however, i am convinced that we need a completely new system of fisheries policy, one which makes fishermen feel responsible for the survival of cod. one system that has proved effective is the system of individual transferable fishing quotas. provide fishermen with an incentive to take responsibility for the survival of the stock. i believe that this will lead to a better fisheries policy in the eu. as sad as it is that the committee on fisheries does not seem to want this system, it is equally gratifying that the commission seems to be positive about the possibility of introducing individual transferable fishing quotas. in conclusion, i would just like to say something that i welcome about the report by the committee on fisheries, namely that my proposal to increase the minimum size of cod caught has been accepted. it gives the fish better reproductive opportunities and a more stable stock. unfortunately, however, i cannot vote with the moderates for the report before us today.
for the ind/dem group. thank you, mr president. the situation of cod in the baltic sea is very serious. the icss has recommended that no cod be fished in the eastern stock for 2007. despite these recommendations, a significant amount will be landed. the western stock will be caught 30% above the recommended level. in addition, there is unreported and illegal fishing. the committee on fisheries is trying to water down the commission's proposal. a proposal which also fails to take account of the consequences for biodiversity. as always when fisheries issues are discussed, the socioeconomic consequences of fishing are mentioned. it is true that a cod ban could have negative consequences for professional fishermen. on the other hand, overfishing means that soon there will be no fish left to fish. in the age of globalisation, it is necessary to be flexible and prepared for structural changes in society. i shall vote against the parliament's proposal tomorrow, even though i do not think the commission's proposal is satisfactory either.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i myself live by the baltic sea and have therefore been able to follow closely the plight of the baltic sea. it is a fact that the quality of life of people is being reduced, but also, as commissioner joe borg himself pointed out, that economic development along the entire baltic sea coast is being threatened. citizens around the eu expect us to take strong action here to save the ecosystems of our seas. i would therefore have preferred the house to support a cod ban, as the committee on the environment proposed in its opinion. moreover, with a stop, it would have been easy to access the illegal fishing that many here have spoken about. now there is obviously no majority for this in the house, but i hope at least that a majority can support amendments nos 20 and 22. they imply, among other things, that the maximum allowable catches should follow the advice of the international council for the exploration of the sea. it should be a given. the fact that we are not acting on the basis of the scientific knowledge available is one of the reasons for the threats to cod and the entire baltic sea ecosystem that we see today.
in writing. i have decided to abstain in the final vote on the coelho report today. the criticism of the schengen system in principle is still very valid in relation to, for example, personal privacy and the possibility for refugees to apply for asylum. the continuing construction of fortress europe must end at once. however, i do of course recognise the right of individual member states to join the system if the country concerned so deems appropriate.
in writing. as regards the possibility under this proposal for foreign authorities to have access to data in swedish registers, we assume that this is preceded by a request to the swedish authorities and a subsequent approval. we oppose the so-called hit-no-hit system.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on agriculture's proposal to amend the commission's proposal is under attack. we strongly oppose the proposals to favour mushroom, berry and fruit growers, to introduce area payments for garlic, to examine the possibility of introducing an eu quality label, to set up an eu quality control authority for fruit and vegetables from third countries, to establish an insurance fund for the aforementioned crop sector and to introduce export refunds for processed tomatoes, etc. the junilista group once again notes that it is fortunate that the european parliament does not have a vote on eu agricultural policy, as this would lead to the union falling into a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies for all the different groups in the agricultural sector. that is why we have voted against this report.
in writing. this report provides some adjustment to the fruit and vegetable market, which is subject to excessive detailed regulation, and phases out export aid for this sector. i therefore do not vote against the report, but the improvements are too small to vote for, so i shall abstain.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report, which is basically a good one. we would like to make a few clarifications, however. we voted for the text in paragraph 8 because we are in favour of strengthening the common foreign and security policy. it is important to point out, however, that we are not in favour of a common defence. paragraph 12 highlights issues of importance to citizens such as social europe and the fight against climate change. however, we are opposed to the incorporation of the copenhagen criteria into the constitution. we think the copenhagen criteria are important, but we do not want to include them in the constitution, as this would make further enlargement more difficult. for the same reasons, we are also opposed to the introduction of other obstacles which would make it more difficult for the applicant countries. we also object to the special status accorded to religious communities in paragraph 18 in relation to the rest of civil society.
in writing. the federalist majority in the european parliament is not ideologically representative of its constituents on eu constitutional issues. every effort is now being made to avoid asking voters in referendums about their views on the future of europe. we are in favour of holding referendums on these issues, but we do not think that the european parliament is the right body to push for referendums in the member states. the federalist majority now wants to secure as much as possible of the supremacy of the old draft constitutional treaty by simply changing the title of the draft eu constitution. we have therefore voted against the report submitted by the european parliament's committee on constitutional affairs. the union needs a treaty based on the self-determination of the member states, which regulates together how to deal with cross-border issues.
in writing. in a vote on the roadmap for the draft constitutional treaty, i voted today on an amendment to the effect that all countries should 'conduct a referendum'. i am in favour of a referendum, but that is something that each member state must decide for itself. in germany, for example, referendums are not a constitutional instrument.
in writing. the livelihood of artists is an important issue, but it is the responsibility of the member states to solve it politically in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. that is why we have voted against this report.
in writing. in the first amendment, lundgren points out that the travelling circus between the three different workplaces results in exorbitant costs. that's as far as i go. the problem is the very accusation, which is made in the third amendment, that the eu is engaged in large-scale property speculation. the situation is the other way round; ep saves money on ownership. since there were parts of the proposal with which i agreed, i therefore abstained in the first case and voted against in the second. the second amendment proposes that the eu should refrain from carrying out central campaigns. here again, i agree that it is unlikely that the eu citizens will be more positive simply because of the commission's communication strategies. on the other hand, i find it difficult to object to the eu choosing to devote resources to informing about its activities in the context of european parliament elections. we all do our best to inform the local community when we are at home during the midterm elections and by working constructively. the best way to communicate politics well is to do good politics.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to this report. the internet and broadband emerged, in the way we know it today, in the middle of the 1990s; it was, then, only about 10 years ago that these phenomena started to change the world. no one at that time could have foreseen the impact of this change or how it would transform societies and change the pattern of the world economy. no one at that time could have predicted what would come of it and what opportunities it would give to individuals all over the world. i think it is important to say the same thing today. no one knows how big the changes will be. we only know one thing: the changes arising from broadband development will be much more far-reaching this time than those of the last 10 years because the speed of change is greater today than it was then. this provides important grounds for decision-making in the european union. it is important to have stable rules and institutions that allow for new entrepreneurs, new ideas and new technologies to come along, and that allow for the dynamic, not only in the economy, but also in society, to make full use of broadband. i think that the development of broadband is a unique opportunity above all for the european union, because it combines growth, and opportunities for growth, with the cohesion of different regions. it binds people and regions together at the same time as giving new opportunities for growth and new jobs. it distributes opportunities for growth in different areas, and we can see from globalisation what this brings us. it brings countries and regions closer to each other, but also provides a huge number of new opportunities. for the european union, this is a special thing, because we can be at the forefront of the development of e-health, e-learning, e-government, e-trade, e-medicine etc. if we ensure that we are the region in the world that is moving most in this area. there are some important points of departure that must be based on the fact that the value of broadband depends on the number of users. therefore, it is of utmost importance for us to get people all over the union connected as soon as possible. it is of importance to us all, wherever we live. the second thing is that the value of broadband is also dependent on the content, which is why it is important that it is open to as many as possible. there are five points that i would like to highlight that are underlined in the report. first of all, the more competition there is, the faster the markets today develop the deployment of broadband. in those countries and regions where there is a lot of competition, the deployment of broadband is faster than in other parts of the union. that means it is important not to distort competition but to open up more competition in this area. second, there are few areas where it is better to use european funding than in this area, provided certain preconditions are fulfilled: for example, where the market cannot provide for deployment or when it is a question of increasing the level of advanced technology in this area – which is not just about deployment as such but ensuring that we are in the technological lead. i am sure that the eu can be the leader but that also means that we should highlight some other points. first of all, two preconditions for eu funding: there should be a level playing field where we are funding, and we should use the funding in such a way that it will increase the technology, not only deployment. we do not need the old technologies, we need the new technologies because they are the best, especially for outlying regions, where costs decrease the more advanced technologies are. lastly, we need to have neutrality between different technologies, different operators, different content providers and different services. if we do that, we can make full use of what this technology can give the european union. we can be at the forefront technologically and in terms of making use of opportunities and we can ensure that we combine growth with cohesion, which will make european citizens stronger in the society and the world in which they live.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr schnellhardt in particular for the patient work we are doing. what patience has not been shown by all with the lobbyists of the liquor industry! it's gonna be really nice to get rid of them. the whole package is really about us politicians regulating sales benefits through origin labelling and similar measures. that said, i believe that origin labelling and similar measures can also play a major role in defending local production patterns against unfair competition, even for spirits, which are not in themselves useful products that we politicians should promote. what we have so far forgotten to mention in the debate, i think, is the work we have done to reduce synthetic flavourings, to reduce the sugar content of spirits and to reduce colours. this is also an important part of the compromise to make less synthetic spirits. which brings us to the vodka. i have also tabled amendment no 149 to remove the sweetening of all non-traditionally sweetened spirits. but let's get back to the vodka. the compromise is that grain and potatoes are the basis of vodka, and that the product should be labelled if it is made from something else. if the producers start cheating the labelling and try to sneak away and sell non-traditional vodka as ordinary vodka, we have to come back to this question, because that is not the point. if you make vodka from anything other than grain or potatoes, it should be shown on the bottle. the amendments seeking to protect vodka even more have added sugar beet. this is not a traditional method in my country. why should i support amendments that add sugar beet and equate it with cereals and potatoes? that is why i am voting against the amendments.
we shall now adopt a definition of vodka. my question is: why would you do that? as a member of the committee on the environment, i want to devote all my time and energy to working for a better environment and better public health not defining alcohol types. the public health is really at risk. europe is by far the continent with the highest alcohol consumption in the world. in my own country, sweden, consumption has increased by over 30 per cent since we joined the eu. a definition sanctioned by the eu will only give vodka an image of something fine. it's not. vodka is alcohol. alcohol is dangerous in large quantities. if there is to be a vodka definition, why can't industry come up with it? with all due respect to rapporteur schnellhardt, this definition should be returned to the alcohol capital. they can sit there and come up with as many definitions as they want. we politicians have other things to do.
we swedish social democrats support the compromise on the definition of vodka for the same reasons as the swedish bourgeois government does in the council of ministers. we do this because it is the best solution for swedish consumers and producers, because it differentiates vodka produced in the way we swedes expect it to be - namely from potatoes or grain. if the compromise fails, there will be no special treatment for vodka made from potatoes or cereals, and it will remain unclear to consumers what they are getting when they buy vodka. some may ask why the eu should decide how vodka is marketed. we have a single internal market in the eu, and therefore we also have common rules for what and how things can be sold on this market. democracy must set limits on the market, including how to market different products. however, i deeply regret that not even a majority in the committee on the environment could support my amendments to put warning labels on alcohol. i've been meaning to come back to that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. economic relations promote not only prosperity but also peace. russia is the closest major power to the eu. if russia again became a threat to peace and democracy, it would be devastating for the future of europe. that is why we shall work for increased trade with russia. that is why we must work for russia's accession to the wto. but we also need to send the right signals. russia has recently cut off supplies of coal and oil to estonia. the aim was to force estonia to submit to moscow on a domestic policy issue. the eu's reaction was lame. russian oil and gas to major eu countries was more important. "first comes the food, then comes the morality", became the message. the eu did not make it clear enough that estonia is an eu country, that the russian measures were therefore directed against the whole union and that this is not acceptable to the eu. that's not how it's going to be.
at the moment there are many important issues on the agenda concerning the eu's economic relations with russia, not least the partnership agreement and the negotiations for russian membership of the wto. in the debate on economic relations with russia, two extremes seem to be opposing each other. on the one hand, those who see russia's emergence as an economic superpower as a threat and want to stop it and make us independent of russia. on the one hand, those who want to trade with russia at any cost, and are ready to do anything to get in the way of the leaders in moscow. they're doing everything to secure their own access to russian natural resources. i don't subscribe to either of those perspectives. we have much to gain from increased trade with russia and increased economic integration. but russia has even more to gain. it's not just about the economy. it is about bringing us closer together, strengthening democracy and the rule of law in this country. we are thus anchoring russia in the european community of interest. but we must also make demands on russia. we must demand that they respect democracy, the market economy and the rule of law. too many people today seem to believe that russia is fated to reject universal principles, and blindly accept that russia is violating them, but that is wrong. to give in to russian pressure or provocation will lead nowhere. it actually weakens the good forces in the country. if we act together, with a united front in the eu, we will get them to listen. then they must listen. russia is an important trading partner for us, but many people forget that we are an even more important trading partner for them. the same applies to russia's membership of the wto. russia in the wto is important. they are then integrated into the rules-based world trade. but we have to make sure that they intend to live up to the rules, even when they're in. it must not be like the council of europe, for example, where they first become members but then do not care about human rights. we can't afford that. the wto cannot afford russia to do the same there. last but not least, the european energy charter. i would like to elaborate on this at another time. the eu must show a united front and force russia to listen.
the rapporteur. president. - the debate is closed. you guys! tomorrow, when we vote on this report, we have the opportunity to make a major contribution to putting an end to the terrible cruelty to which our pets, dogs and cats, are subjected. as rapporteur, i am both pleased and satisfied with the report that we parliament, the council and the commission have now agreed. i would like to thank the commission and the council for their constructive cooperation. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on the internal market, mr mccarthy, and my colleagues. i would like to thank mr stevenson, who i know has worked for many years to bring this matter to fruition. everyone has shown great commitment and a desire to achieve an outcome that is good for our pets. it has been a very interesting work, especially in view of the interest shown by the public in this matter. i am absolutely convinced that the great public opinion and the animal rights organisations have been very important in bringing us to this agreement. i would like to thank all the citizens who have been involved in the name-calling and campaigns. they have shown that we no longer accept this cruelty to animals. thank you all. your protests have paid off. many of us have seen documentaries, films, and photographs that show how even still-living dogs and cats have had their fur shorn. if you have seen a single picture, a single documentary of this animal cruelty, you realize that everything must be done to stop it. the organization "the human society" estimates that more than two million cats and dogs are kept in abominable conditions and then killed for their fur. these furs and skins are then sold under false names, such as china wolf and asian wolf. these furs and skins are used, for example, in baby pets, ornaments, clothing, and bags. we must now put an end to this trade, particularly because of the extreme cruelty of fur production. that reason is sufficient, but i can add that there is also no need for cat or dog fur in any product, as it can be replaced by other synthetic materials. the false trade name used is a major fraud against consumers. no unsuspecting consumer can in good faith buy a toy for his children without having the slightest idea that a cat may have been skinned alive for use in that particular toy. it has been argued in the debate that we need these skins for example to relieve joint pain, i.e. for medical reasons. my answer is that no patient in 2007 is prescribed cat skin for rheumatic pain when he or she visits a doctor. we've come a long way from that. i, as rapporteur, and all concerned citizens, therefore had high hopes when the commission's proposal was received. we felt that we needed a total ban, but the commission's original proposal allowed for certain exceptions, for example where the labelling states that the fur comes from cats or dogs that have not been bred or killed for production, or are personal or household items. i have always felt that if we leave room for such exceptions, the regulation will be a blow to the wind, which is completely impossible to control, and the exceptions would have opened the door to continued trade and to this terrible treatment. it was not the kind of regulation that citizens wanted or demanded from the eu. i am therefore pleased to say that we now have a proposal for a total ban after consultation with the commission and the council. i hope that parliament will support the proposal tomorrow by voting in favour of the amendments which have been fully agreed by the committee on the internal market. we also have proposals on how the member states should apply these rules and that the member states should also report to the commission on how they are being followed up. i am convinced that the public will be watching us when we vote tomorrow because there is a real demand for action on this issue.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you, kyprianou and eva-britt, for a wonderful job. most cats and dogs raised in europe can expect to be patted, fed, rocked and well cared for. on the other hand, those who buy stuffed animals or fashion bags made of cat and dog fur are contributing to a trade that torments, beats, and skins animals alive. this bill is unusual. firstly, the eu has finally listened to the voice of the people who want to ban this vile trade. secondly, it was felt that the single market would work best if we prohibited trade. for once, animal welfare has been put before the single market. i would like to stress the importance of not allowing exceptions to undermine the prohibition. finally, we have a precedent that shows the way for trade based on values other than market fundamentalism. when we are done with this, i hope and demand that the next issue be a ban on the import of seal fur. hundreds of thousands of seals are still being tortured to death on the icecaps of canada and norway.
thank you to the rapporteur for an important report, because education is an important factor in women's right to paid work. in this report, as in other reports on parents and children, the concepts of family life and family are central. no definition is given of the concept of 'family', but i assume that this concept refers to various alternative family structures, not only the traditional image of a nuclear family with a mother, father and common biological children, but that the concept of family also includes, for example, single people with children, parents of the same sex or how different people choose to live their lives. to clarify this, i hope that parliament will vote in favour of amendment no 8. the report proposes a number of measures to ensure that young women have equal opportunities for education with men. i support most of the proposals, with the exception of the text which emphasizes the importance of older family members, grandparents and grandmothers, and their efforts to help parents who are studying or working. today's generation of grandparents are often working professionals themselves. even though they are retired, they have the right to live their own lives, with the obvious joy and companionship that one can have with one's grandchildren. but they are not the ones to take on the responsibility of child care. society has a responsibility to develop childcare and other care so that all parents who seek care, whether they are students or working, have access to high-quality and educationally sound care for their children. both women and men have the right to study, work and have children. they're entitled to both.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the report highlights a serious problem that exists in many member states, namely that it is difficult to study if you have children. a number of measures are proposed. the point is, however, that these issues are not within the eu's competence. the committee is getting involved in strictly national matters, such as taxation, social security systems and parental insurance, which is totally unacceptable. the rapporteur also rightly points out that in some nordic countries, including sweden, there are systems which favour students who are parents. i am firmly of the opinion that these systems are the most satisfactory, but the eu should not impose any system on anyone in these matters. the countries that are in trouble will soon realize that the situation is unsustainable and will therefore look to the countries and systems that work. i am never ceasing to be amazed at the proposals presented in this house. the imagination is free, to say the least.
today, fewer children are being born in europe. this is due to the current work situation and the development of society, but also because many women wait to have children until they have completed their education. the older a woman gets, the worse her fertility gets. the possibility for students to form a family is very important from a gender equality perspective. the lack of adequate support from society results in many young women dropping out of their studies when they have children, or not starting any studies at all. this, of course, leads to a disparate labour market and also a loss for the economy as a whole, because the full potential of these women is lost. this pattern is particularly noticeable in sweden. over 60 percent of those entering higher education in sweden are women, but the proportion thins out the higher up the hierarchy you go. a particularly high proportion of women drop out of doctoral studies when they reach the age when they want to have children, because it is difficult for doctoral students to be parents. the level of education of women is crucial for europe's growth, innovation capacity and personal development of women. the member states must therefore make it easier for students with children to combine their studies with family life. this should be done through social and economic reforms, such as state financial support and well-developed, low-cost childcare.
i have an oral amendment to paragraph 24, second sentence. i'll read it in swedish: in addition, parliament called on the member states to include parental leave during the period of study in the total time a woman has worked and in her pension rights, with a view to fully achieving the goal of genuine equality between women and men. man and han should therefore be added.
in writing. i voted against the schnellhardt report in the final vote today. the starting point is the social situation in europe, where alcohol consumption must be curbed. the work of improving public health must be given top priority. in this situation, it is reversed that the european parliament should define what vodka is, and thus support the use of an alcoholic beverage which is harmful to people at the time of its major consumption.
in writing. today the european parliament voted on what vodka really is. the liberal group, including myself, voted mainly in favour of a narrow definition of vodka, which from the perspective of the vodka producing countries can only contain grain and potatoes. unfortunately, this narrow line was lost. in the future, other raw materials may also be included in vodka, such as grapes. it's a writing that i eventually accepted, even though it wasn't my first choice.
in writing. the rapporteur makes two contradictory arguments in his explanatory statement of the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. he also said that the eu's policy must support a faster pace of innovation to make europe the most dynamic market in the world. the pursuit of a 'broadband policy' at eu level with public funds is in itself indefensible. what happens if this policy fails, as the lisbon strategy failed? junilista considers, firstly, that the expansion of broadband is a market task. it is the market players who, by developing technology in free competition, must ensure that demand for their services is created. secondly, junilistan believes that policy objectives in this area should be formulated and implemented at national level in the context of institutional competition to find good solutions for stimulated broadband deployment. the junilista therefore votes against the report as a whole.
in writing. the level of education of people is crucial for europe's growth, innovation capacity and personal development of its citizens. the possibility for students to form a family is also very important from a gender perspective. it is therefore important that the eu member states do more to create good conditions for people to study and raise a family at the same time. in this context, we voted in favour of the report, even though what is discussed in it is largely a national, regional and local responsibility, not a european one.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is gratifying that the legal service of the european parliament has established that it is incorrect to use the unratified eu constitution as a reference in this report. the junilist, the party i represent, has consistently maintained that referring to the eu constitution is reprehensible, given that the people of two of the eu member states have clearly and unequivocally voted against it in referendums. the constitution requires unanimous ratification to serve as a legal basis or reference. i appeal to this house to respect this in future. the world's rich countries have a moral duty to spread some of their wealth to developing countries. i therefore wholeheartedly share the urgent objectives set out in the mdgs. however, junilista believes that aid issues should be handled exclusively by the respective member states in cooperation with organisations with broad international legitimacy and long experience. the eu's role in this context should be to dismantle the destructive fisheries agreements it concludes with poor developing countries and to radically reform protectionist trade and agricultural policies. this makes it difficult for farmers in poor developing countries to sell their products on the european market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we talk a lot here about how much we pay in aid today and how much we should pay in the future. we always say that aid money is not enough and that the mdgs will not be met. it will not be possible to achieve this without aid to the developing countries to enable them to develop their economies and thereby help themselves. those in this parliament who know me know that i represent sweden, but that i came to sweden almost 14 years ago as a refugee from bosnia. i know that when you are in a situation of need and need, you want help so that you can help yourself in the shortest possible time and become independent and independent and not needing help. what you definitely don't want is people who feel sorry for you and help you, and that leads to a dependency on help in the future. it is also in this light that we should see the criticism i have of the report, in which i call for even more emphasis on trade and its positive role in development. another point which the report does not make sufficiently clear is that of liberalisation. the idea that aid should be increased without requiring developing countries to reduce their debt, for example, means that aid is given without any demands for either liberalization or debt relief. but without liberalisation, the debt increases even more, and then we come to the situation at the beginning of my speech, where aid leads to dependence on aid, and that must never be the case.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was quite taken with what the previous speaker said. that is why i have a little difficulty in speaking, but i will try to stick to what i was going to say. when i went to school, i was taught that the people of africa starved because they had cut down the trees where they lived, so that nothing could grow there anymore. so, in a sense, they were more or less the cause of their situation. today, there is growing evidence that it is indeed the rich world, through our lifestyle and the large emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that affect the climate, that has caused climate change in sub-saharan africa, leaving people there without adequate food and water supplies. it certainly puts world poverty in a different light. our responsibility to eradicate poverty becomes even greater if we are the cause of it. kinnock, member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it emphasizes our responsibility to ensure that our carbon emissions do not affect the poorest people on earth. to do this, we must both drastically reduce our emissions of climate-changing gases and support developing countries to cope with the enormous transformation the world is facing. it's about everything from coping with, for example, rising water levels to making sure that developing countries that have the ability to produce renewable energy have the ability to do so, and thus also have the ability to lift themselves out of poverty. if the world is to achieve the mdgs, we must prioritise and invest more in this. nor should religious beliefs be allowed to interfere with people's free will and ability to protect themselves against life-threatening diseases and unwanted pregnancies, unless we are serious about reducing the mortality rate of such diseases as hiv, aids, and unwanted pregnancies. reproductive rights, information on legal abortion, access to contraception are and will remain essential elements in our efforts to achieve the millennium development goals. everything else is just prejudice. i am surprised to hear them in this chamber. we should be more enlightened than that.
member of the commission. mr president, of course sweden has to apply the treaties. the fact that a referendum was held does not relieve sweden of its obligation to apply the treaties. the commission also has to apply the treaty, and what it has done and what it will continue to do is to analyse every two years, as the treaty asks us to do, whether the member state in question - in this case sweden - meets or does not meet the criteria required to join the euro. he's not meeting them yet. sweden has a problem because its currency is not included in the exchange rate mechanism and therefore does not meet the criterion of exchange rate stability, does not meet the criterion of adjustment of its legislation to the rules laid down in the articles of the treaty to which i have referred earlier, and we make this clear. what every member state must do is to prepare for that moment. and as the honourable member knows, and as the honourable members know, the referendum held in sweden in 2003 is not a referendum whose results will be valid forever. we have known cases of referendums which at one time expressed a certain position in a certain country, a position which over time changed because the will of its citizens, expressed through elections or new referendums, changed. i would stress that the situation, from the point of view of the type of legal obligations arising from the treaty, is not comparable when we consider, on the one hand, the need to move towards economic and monetary union and, on the other, the need to comply with the energy security standards contained in our basic standards.
mr president, i would like to thank you. apart from the regulatory system itself, it is reasonable to take account of the way in which the whole question of sweden's involvement in the monetary union has been dealt with. when the referendum on sweden's accession to the european union was held in 1994, it was made clear that we were not obliged to join the monetary union if we voted 'yes'. this is a matter which we have negotiated and can decide later. that's the political background to this. i agree with the commissioner that sweden cannot be forced into erm ii as long as we do not meet the requirements for participation. but i would remind you that a country which has joined can, and that is my question to the commissioner, can it really be imagined that ... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. mr president, it is of course a matter for the member states, but in the various strategies to be adopted and in the exchange of best practice in various areas, the question of what is the best way of preventing it will certainly be discussed, and early detection is clearly an important way of preventing it. but we expect this to be dealt with separately in each sector. i do not expect there to be a horizontal provision specifically for children, but in every area of health, in every preventable health problem, the strategy and the initiative will make special reference to children and prevention.
member of the commission. mr president, yes, this problem of excessive alcohol consumption, although it started as a problem in the northern or northwestern member states of the european union, is now spreading to the southern countries. we already know that this is a problem facing spain and i have had the opportunity to discuss this matter with the minister of health on many occasions. this issue is addressed in the strategy to combat the harmful effects of excessive alcohol consumption, adopted last year and supported by the member states. we are waiting for the european parliament's position on this matter, but in general the issue of young people and the fight against this form of excessive consumption is one of the main objectives of the strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe, however, that by sharing best practice and transferring experience from one member state to another, and by working with all the parties involved, we can achieve positive results. that is why, last week, we had the first meeting of the european forum on health and alcohol and of course the problem that the honourable member mentioned was the issues that the european forum on health and alcohol will be dealing with.
member of the commission. the commission's main strategy for the period is prevention, mr president, of course in the field of health in general. and that's why we're focusing a lot of our efforts on addressing the negative health effects -- i mentioned that earlier -- of alcohol, smoking, obesity, mental health and all these issues. but this too will be part of the strategy, the approach will concern all european policies in all areas and, in particular, the research sector you have mentioned, but also other areas of the european union, such as agriculture, transport, regional policy. in particular, in the area of research, we have a very close cooperation with my colleague and a very large section is devoted to health research. i am referring, by way of example, to cancer research, avian influenza research and other health areas, because we consider this to be one of the main priorities and this is also recognised in the 7th financial protocol.
member of the commission. on these health services, as i said earlier, we had the opportunity to discuss this in may during the debate on the report by mrs vergnaud, which was very helpful to us. i can inform parliament that we are now in the process of drafting a proposal. after a few ministerial discussions this was endorsed by the health ministers in the latest council, which expressed its expectation for the commission to present the proposal in exactly the same way as the parliament. so we expect to do this as soon as possible, definitely before the end of the year. we previously had a broad public consultation and the input from that will also be taken into account, but the basic outcome is that there is added value for initiative at european level. an important part of it will of course be the issue of information, and we would like this to be done in the most accurate and objective way. our intention is to find solutions that add real value for patients, health professionals and healthcare providers, without creating new bureaucratic barriers, and respecting the principle of subsidiarity. we will ensure coherence between the proposals on health services and the ongoing parallel commission initiatives on social services of general interest, the wider issue of services of general interest, and the ongoing modernisation and simplification of the regulations on the coordination of social security systems. as i said earlier, information to citizens is an important part, so there will be efforts to access information; some have already been taken and have already been put in place with a recently launched website on meeting the costs for healthcare abroad. this website, which is already available in french, english and german, will be available in all official languages very soon. we will of course inform parliament of forthcoming proposals as soon as they are finalised within the commission, but i can broadly describe the main issues the proposals will address: improved information to patients, in particular about cross-border healthcare; the issue of the general quality and safety of health services; the rights of the patients to redress when they suffer harm; respect for privacy; procedural guarantees for patients in relation to cross-border healthcare; collection of data on cross-border health services; and support for european cooperation on issues such as european reference networks, developing quality and safety guidelines or developing comparable data and indicators.
member of the commission. one of the problems is that we do not have sufficient statistics on this issue. but we know from the evidence we have in front of us is that it is at least 1% of healthcare, so this will increase expectations. the main reason so far is the issue of the lack of information. people are not aware they have this right, and the more they become aware of this the more they will seek treatment abroad. this is an opportunity for us to regulate before it becomes too big an issue, before it is too late. i am afraid i do not have any indication of the complaints from people not being granted authorisation. as you know, we have had cases before the european court of justice where citizens were dissatisfied with a negative decision but, at the same time, the patients’ lack of knowledge that they can seek redress at european level does not give us an accurate and clear picture either. that is why, when i was answering you question earlier, i only had in front of me the collection of data and cross-border health service which will be one of the priorities of the upcoming initiative.
member of the commission. mr president, as you know, the commission is currently reflecting on the future of the single market. this autumn, we hope to bring forward our ideas on what should be the focus of single market policy in the coming years. one major element of our analysis concerns the question of how better to ensure that community law is correctly applied on the ground. i welcome the fact that you are devoting a report to this issue, which is specifically focused on public procurement, and i commend your rapporteur mrs mccarthy on the initiative. as a key recommendation, the report suggests setting up national advisory bodies to assist contracting authorities as well as tenderers. such a contact point at national level could play an important role in securing the correct application of public procurement rules. bringing public procurement advice closer to the numerous contracting authorities and individual tenderers, via a national body, is good idea. the commission is ready to cooperate with such national contact points and to respond to any inquiry they might have. member states should take up the suggestions in the report and, for example, set up such a national advisory body. some member states are currently in the process of setting up contact points, or internal market centres, which could assist firms and citizens in the context of solvit, the free movement of goods, or the services directive. i welcome such initiatives and hope that such national bodies will extend their activity to all internal market sectors, including public procurement. we also wish to assure you that the commission is deploying all available means to secure the implementation of 2004 procurement directives as quickly as possible in those member states which are still lagging behind. i regret that our efforts to give all possible advice and assistance could not prevent the fact that we had to take legal action against a number of member states for failure to complete their transposition process. however, we cannot afford to lose time in establishing a level playing field among tenderers across europe. in conclusion, let me underline that we need member states’ commitment to the cause of public procurement if we want to achieve progress in correct transposition and implementation. public procurement cases still represent far too big a share of infringement cases brought against member states. this is to the detriment of fair competition between tenderers. it is also to the detriment of public finances, and thus taxpayers. your report highlights the need for improvement, and i thank the house for your support.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, first of all i express my warm thanks to the rapporteur, mrs mccarthy, for an excellent report. lately, i have noticed a tendency in the european parliament that i, as a european, find worrying: a weakened respect for the ecj rulings. the ecj takes no national considerations into account its judgments: it takes the interests of the union and its citizens into account. furthermore, it is one of the bases of the treaty that the case-law of the ecj is applicable in every member state. our role in the european parliament is mainly legislative. in fulfilling our task it is crucial for us to use the european approach of the ecj as our loadstone, rather than seeing the ecj as an enemy – a view that is not so rare nowadays, unfortunately. the legislation on public procurement is still suffering from quite a few teething problems. many of the problems are caused by the lack of, or difficulties with, national implementation. it must always be our goal, and the goal of the member states, to make the legislation as understandable and adaptable to real needs as possible. smes should be able to participate in the cross-border market in reality, not only in theory. we must make the framework for the public-private partnerships work and create legal certainty for companies as well as for public authorities, and check that all act according to eu legislation without imposing unnecessary red tape. it is our task to make sure that local and national interests will not overrun our european goal, which is, and should be, the best result for all european citizens and entrepreneurs. i shall finish by expressing confidence in the commission and in our future good cooperation.
for the ind/dem group. for once, this is a report that a member of the eu-sceptic junilistan party can express considerable appreciation for. this is precisely what the european union is supposed to do, that is, to ensure that we get economically liberal solutions in the areas where we have chosen the market, and this is what we should do by law. the report is therefore quite right in its approach. it is vital that the eu and the commission ensure that regulatory systems are respected and that attempts to favour domestic suppliers at the expense of foreign suppliers are absolutely forbidden. this is in the interest of consumers and citizens alike. but what would it be like to be an eu sceptic if you had no objections? i have two: firstly, i think it is wrong to start now demanding that more staff be employed at the commission for monitoring. in the committee on budgetary control, where i am first vice-chairman, we are going over the law in the opposite direction. the important thing is that we demand from the member states and the leading politicians, the finance ministers and the prime ministers that they can guarantee that they are really following the rules to which you are subject when you belong to the european union. secondly, we must also remember that countries have the right to choose other solutions. if you do not want to deregulate, if you want a state post office or something else under state control, you are fully entitled to do so and there is no need to call for such a call for tenders.
the committee on international trade has tabled an opinion. it is high time to take this important decision to ban the export of mercury. not many people know this, but the eu is actually the world's largest exporter of the substance. over 1 000 tonnes are exported from the eu to other countries every year. that's almost a third of the total world trade in mercury. the dangerous mercury ends up almost exclusively in developing countries, where it does much harm. i am pleased to take a position on a well-conceived report by my colleague, mr dimitrios papadimoulis. this report is not just about banning mercury exports. it is also a question of ensuring the safe storage of this dangerous substance, which i think is very positive. i am particularly pleased that mr papadimoulis has introduced some considerable improvements to the commission's proposal. some of these improvements are: to extend this provision to include products and mercury compounds; to extend the ban to include an import ban; to bring the ban into force earlier than the commission wanted, i.e. in 2010 instead of 2011; to establish a tracking system for mercury trade to enhance control of mercury; to support developing countries in switching to modern mercury-free technologies. these changes are in line with what i proposed as rapporteur in the committee on international trade, and i am very grateful for them. the only thing that worries me is the liberals' demand for a split vote. a split vote would threaten to undermine important parts of this otherwise excellent report. so stick to the rapporteur's line on protecting the environment and public health and do not go along with the liberal line on the market. tomorrow, therefore, the eu will take its responsibility and stop dumping deadly mercury into developing countries. it's about time. with our changes and improvements, the eu will also take up its historic responsibility to support the countries of the south to switch from mercury use to cleaner technologies. it will protect the health of thousands of people and our shared environment. it's not bad!
for the verts/ale group. mercury is dangerous to health and the environment, and we now have 12 000 tonnes of mercury to be stored. that may sound like a lot, but that volume could easily fit half the hall. so it would be strange if we were to send the mercury around and store it in a variety of places in storage that is not secure. that is why i am against the liberal attempt to get rid of mercury, because it would only be a temporary solution. a permanent solution must be absolutely secure. the only safe solution is to stabilize the mercury once and for all. mercury sulphide is almost completely insoluble, which allows it to be stored safely. if it is not stabilized, we cannot have a variety of stocks in poorly controlled forms. i therefore oppose amendment no 40 because it would undermine safety at work. it is important that we agree on a single date, 1 january 2010, as is clear from amendment no 43 tabled by my group. it prohibits both the import and export of mercury and mercury-containing products, which creates a holistic view. anything else would be a cynical export of mercury. we know that the chloralkali industry must stop exporting. if it has the chance to continue exporting one year after the ban comes into force, it will empty its mercury stockpiles and get paid for it. the mercury will then be used by gold-miners in the amazon, destroying vast river basins by contaminating them with mercury. it is essential that the ban be introduced by 1 january 2010, otherwise we undermine the whole idea of the export ban.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dimitrios papadimoulis, for his excellent work. last fall i participated in a study in which a sample of my hair was taken to determine its mercury content. surprisingly, i actually had a relatively high amount of mercury in me, which is very worrying. i'm pregnant, and i have high levels of mercury! my high mercury levels now risk harming the baby i'm carrying and could lead to the child having trouble concentrating as an adult. the high mercury levels are also worrying because i come from a country that has come a long way in eliminating mercury. we no longer use mercury thermometers, and we use virtually no amalgam when we clean our teeth. yet i have high levels of mercury in my system. there are alternatives to mercury. given the serious health effects of mercury, we should be able to phase it out, not just here in europe but globally. tonight, we are talking about ensuring that we do not contribute to the global spread of mercury by banning its export and finding ways to safely store used mercury. i have worked to ensure that the export ban should come into force as soon as possible and that the export ban should be extended to other mercury products, so that the ban cannot be circumvented. i have also worked to ensure that we do not lock ourselves into a single repository, because we do not know at present which technology is the best for repository storage. mercury should therefore be stored in safe but temporary storage for the time being. in the future, i hope, not least, that all women in the world will be able to eat the fish in the waters near them without risking harm to the development of their children.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, for a good and well-balanced proposal. complementary pensions are important in many member states and will become increasingly important in the future. i think the balance in the proposal is a good one, a balance between geographical freedom of movement between member states on the one hand and taking account of different systems on the other. some argue that this directive is not necessary. yes, you do. many of our systems around europe are built on a labour market that used to look very different. today we have a mobile labour market within countries, between companies and across national borders, and therefore pension systems must also change. i have always opposed the right to move for various reasons, and i think it is good that it has been removed. we have different tax systems, life expectancy varies from country to country and, moreover, a transfer tax could sometimes drain the funds for those who remain in them. it is more important to do as we have proposed, namely to concentrate on the rights at rest so that those who leave a fund are not discriminated against but their rights are fully respected. i think the qualifying period and the minimum age should be as low as possible because it hinders mobility. here we have found a balance in parliament which takes account of the fact that in the long term we will abolish both qualifying periods and minimum ages. the conditions for reaching an agreement are good if parliament votes in favour of the oomen-ruijten and social affairs committee proposals. we have tried to have a dialogue with the council, and we are not far apart. i hope we will accept this position. i think that will also be an incentive for the council, which will make it possible to reach an agreement at second reading.
in writing. as a liberal, it is difficult to vote no to a proposal which aims to improve the opportunities for increased mobility of people in europe. it is not going to be any easier when the proposal also aims to encourage people to take a more active responsibility for their pension savings, which is one of the real issues of destiny in the future. however, i could not vote for the original proposal. the problem is twofold. firstly, it is worth asking whether this complex issue is appropriate to be raised at european level, given the very different systems of pension saving in the various member states. secondly, i had to note that sweden, like germany, has systems that are very poorly suited to this type of conversion. the swedish model, where the social partners decide on the matter, is not compatible with the rapporteur's proposal. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000 and to present a report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000. i'm in the process of creating a system where people can change jobs and countries and still not have to worry about how it would affect their pension. that is why i finally voted in favour of the report as amended, which was drawn up here in the plenary, where national exceptions are allowed.
in writing. we have voted against this report. the junilist wholeheartedly supports the proper functioning of the internal market. we therefore support the principle that a worker should be able to transfer earned pension points between member states without difficulty. however, we do not believe that the eu should have any say in the design of the pension systems of the member states, provided that all eu citizens are treated equally within the system in question. we are therefore critical of several individual proposals in the report, such as the views on the eligibility conditions for insured persons in supplementary pension schemes, the views on minimum ages for accessing pension rights or the eu rules on the qualifying period for joining a pension scheme. the way in which member states choose to design their respective pension systems should be a purely national matter, provided that all eu citizens are treated equally within the system in question.
in writing. we have decided to abstain in the final vote on these reports. it is up to the citizens of cyprus and malta to decide, preferably by referendum, whether they want their country to join emu. we believe that sweden should be outside the monetary union and we do not recommend that other countries join either.
in writing. in order to conclude galileo, the european satellite navigation system, eu member states are asked to pay another € 2 400 000 000. for many years it has been argued that this project would bring technological innovation, satisfaction of consumers’ needs, employment, and independence from the united states. these assets could justify the spending of community funds, instead of leaving it solemnly to profit-orientated multinationals or the american war industry. as long as galileo remains a peaceful process, we do not principally reject it. unfortunately, galileo will be developed 10 to 20 years too late, and in the meantime gps, the american counterpart, has conquered the world market. this makes galileo into a costly prestige project. spending a lot of community money on this, might sound attractive to big business, but voters and consumers will increasingly regard this as a scandalous waste of money. european companies refuse to participate in public private partnerships, because they do not expect any profit due to the arrears with gps. they do hope to receive a large community investment in 2012 for free. consequently, we do not want to spend even more money on galileo. if there are no real perspectives, we should dare to stop.
in writing. european member states will be technologically dependent on the military powers of today and tomorrow, such as the united states, russia and china, if they cannot develop their own satellite-based radio navigation. galileo is certainly needed, but the costly project should be largely financed by private actors with political backing. the resolution states in paragraph 6 that the european parliament considers that the galileo programme should be fully financed by the budget of the european union. i am not prepared to go that far and therefore choose to vote against the resolution as a whole.
the president of the council. the council has not yet dealt with this. i cannot foresee whether the council will deal with this in the future. i have said before that the presidency's opinion is not necessary, but that we have welcomed it very much in view of the debates of the last few days, and that the situation between the united states and russia, which was initially somewhat confrontational, has now been brought back to a different level and that people are saying that they want to talk to each other. we have so far taken the view that this matter should be discussed in nato and not in the european council.
the president of the council. it should be noted that there is no legal basis on which the council could formally approve or reject projects such as those you refer to in your question. in other words, such projects can be undertaken without the need to obtain the council's prior approval. as you are aware, decision no 1364/2006/ec of the european parliament and of the council laying down guidelines for trans-european energy networks and repealing decision 96/391/ec and decision no 1229/2003/ec refers in several places to a gas pipeline from russia to germany via the baltic sea offshore route. i also assume, as is well known, that according to annex i to this decision a northern european gas pipeline is a project of european interest and thus belongs to the category of projects which have the highest priority. with regard to the specific provisions on projects of this magnitude, the council refers to the operative part of the abovementioned decision adopted by the european parliament and the council following the co-decision procedure. in particular, i would remind you, mr president, of article 13 of the decision, which reads as follows: this decision is without prejudice to the results of the environmental impact assessment of projects and the plans or programmes which set the framework for the future approval of the projects in question. where the relevant community legislation provides for an environmental impact assessment, the results of that assessment shall be taken into account before a decision is taken on the implementation of the projects under the relevant community legislation.as regards the second part of the request, the treaty gives the commission the task of ensuring the correct application of community legislation and, in the event of infringements, of taking the measures it considers appropriate. this principle is of course also applicable to the community rules in force on environmental impact assessment.
madam president, i would like to thank you. as an eu country, and right now as the presidency, germany is advocating a common energy policy for the eu. nevertheless, germany is concluding a bilateral agreement with russia on a very large infrastructure investment, this particular gas pipeline, without consulting other eu member states around the baltic sea. what's the comment on this?
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner frattini, you are here. i would like to begin by thanking hubert pirker for a good report. after the committee's deliberations, i feel we can back it up. asylum policy is an area which the citizens of the eu expect us to solve together, because it is a cross-border problem. we have often discussed here in the house and in the committee the emergency situation in the mediterranean which we members have not yet been able to resolve. it's scandalous that people are still dying every day. the group that arrives includes both immigrants and asylum seekers. in my home country, sweden, since the beginning of the war in iraq, we have taken in the most refugees in the entire eu, about 10,000, and we are not even one of the largest countries in the eu. we must, as pirker says, share the burden. that is why i believe that we cannot simply make declarations and commitments which are not fulfilled. instead, as the report suggests, we must invest heavily in the exchange of information, the collection of information and the speeding up of procedures, but also have the courage to say that we believe in an open europe in the future. we have to stop people smugglers. the trafficking of women and children for prostitution and the sex industry must be stopped. it will no longer be possible to supply the eu with cheap labour when employers need it, only to send workers back when their jobs are finished. these are difficult questions, but it is our duty to solve them if we are serious about introducing a common asylum procedure in 2010. for me, who come from sweden, which has always been a generous host country for refugees, it is still very important that we speak of a list of third countries, but each refugee must still be examined individually. otherwise, many will continue to be violated because of their minority, gender, background, sexual orientation or because they are fleeing a war where they may have been on the losing side. i hope that this report means that we are now taking the next step, and that all the eu countries and we members are jointly taking on this responsibility to solve the urgent problems but also to find long-term solutions.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i shall not go into details but concentrate on the more general aspects of procurement in general. i would also like to declare that our group, gue/ngl, will vote in favour of the report as a whole. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for the fact that we now have a better report. i have great respect for the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur who have worked out all the legal concepts needed to get into this framework. as a member of parliament, i must admit that it is sometimes difficult, if not impossible, to penetrate the legal text. our political decisions in this house must be crystal clear and comprehensible in every detail to those who must take political responsibility for the decisions. i find it difficult to understand that political decisions really need to be taken on this issue. as elected representatives in a parliament, we should be able to decide what we want to achieve with our political decisions. it is then the task of the legal expert to be responsible for the formulation of the legal rules in accordance with the political decision and what we want to achieve with our decisions. i think we can all agree that procurement rules should be fair and guarantee equal treatment. the draft directive states, inter alia, that it is particularly important for small economies and small enterprises that there be an efficient, competitive and well-functioning public procurement market. i am sure that is true, but i am wondering how many small businesses actually have the opportunity to adopt all the legislation. they must be absolutely sure that they are fully aware of the rules, so that they do not subsequently face accusations and be held liable for incorrect procurement. i also think that in future we must think more about the fact that procurement is not just about economics, but that we must have a procurement system which also takes into account the fact that we are reducing transport and reducing the negative impact on the climate that we actually have when we have a public procurement system involving 27 member states.
for the alde group. commissioner, i have to ask you to excuse me. mr president, i would like to thank you. few could have foreseen how the internet would fundamentally change the world, both politically and economically. despite attempts by totalitarian regimes to restrict the flow of information, the internet is gaining millions of new users. the way we use the web is also changing rapidly from passive information gathering to interactive. we buy and sell goods and services. we chat and meet. we've even been given a second life online, a virtual reality that for some people is becoming more important than the real world. there are statistics showing a yearly increase of 21 percent in internet commerce. although intra-eu trade is not large, there are strong indications that it will increase. over half of european households own a computer, an increase of about four per cent in one year. forty-two percent of all households have internet access, and again, the increase is four percent in one year. in my own country, over 75 percent of the population has an internet connection at home. the most encouraging thing is that the greatest increase is in the new member states. as many of my colleagues have pointed out here, the number of fraudulent acts is increasing in line with these developments. in this context, roithová's report is an important step towards improving consumer confidence in the digital market. we know that the commission, in parallel with parliament, is reviewing the whole of eu consumer law. paragraph 19 of the report proposes a european trust mark, a so-called trust mark. it's a good idea, of course, but i can see some problems. secondly, the cost of keeping such a quality label up to date can be high. the commission itself has estimated the cost at one million euros per country per year, which is a considerable sum of money. secondly, there is the risk that the trust mark can be hijacked, misused and forged. another important point is the establishment of an eu charter on the rights and obligations of users in the information society. this is not a new issue and is certainly an important area for the commission, as the commissioner also pointed out in connection with the current review. i believe that the wording proposed in the amendments better reflects the complexity and speed of change in the digital environment. it may go without saying that the digital environment needs a well-functioning framework in terms of rules and legislation. all actors involved in the network should be aware of their rights and obligations. we need to educate and inform consumers. we need responsible salespeople and entrepreneurs, but also bold innovators who see new opportunities and new jobs. of course, we also need laws that work in a changing environment. the commission has to balance all these interests for an eu that can better become a more competitive eu and meet the requirements of the lisbon strategy. finally, i would like to remind you that we must never forget that it is freedom and the free flow of information that have been the basis for the enormous success of the internet.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. trade, the exchange of goods, services and capital, is the very basis of economic prosperity. therefore, any technology that reduces the transaction costs of trade is also fundamental to the increase in wealth. with the world connected by modern communications, secure and fast payment systems, and the elimination of much protectionism, more and more countries around the world are being drawn into a worldwide trade. in the long run, this is for the benefit of everyone on earth. the eu's main task is therefore to facilitate trade in all its forms. firstly, within the eu, and secondly, between the eu and the rest of the world. on the first point, the eu is very successful and has made a major contribution to the economic development of the eu countries. the big exception is agriculture, where there has been no liberalization and where there are therefore major welfare gains to be made. the second point is much worse. the eu's protectionism against the outside world is extensive and covers not only agriculture but also labour-intensive industrial products. the economic costs for the world's poorest countries and for eu consumers are very high. it is therefore in these areas in particular that we want to focus our political resources to shape an eu policy for increased trade and increased prosperity. eu trade is a phenomenon of small scale today, but we all believe that it is a form of trade with a future. zuzana roithová is therefore in a field which will prove very important in the future, but the question is what the eu's role can be in this area at this stage of e-commerce development. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. maybe so, but do we know? every new area, every problem identified, is presented in this house as evidence that the eu must intervene. the tired phrase 'this shows that the eu is needed' is repeated like a mantra. but in a socioeconomic analysis of such problems, one starts by trying to determine what market failures are, whether they can be corrected by policy measures, what those measures are, and at what policy level they should be addressed. the starting point here in the house is usually that these are failures which can and should be addressed at eu level. any problems observed are taken into account in order to advance the eu's positions at the expense of the member states or international bodies of more global scope. you could always tell by the absicht. e-commerce is still in its infancy and we do not know what is holding back its growth, in which areas it will flourish and what forms it will then take. i therefore advise the house to oppose all these proposals for eu-led and eu-sponsored scholarship programmes and training and information campaigns. i therefore advise the house to wait to ask for charters of rights, dispute settlement mechanisms and harmonisation of contractual rights at eu level. i therefore advise the house to reject a logo for a european trust mark in this area. the countries and regions that are creative and pioneering in different areas are those that offer entrepreneurs the freedom to seek solutions that no politicians or officials can normally foresee. in the case of e-commerce, we will find that there are very strong incentives for businesses to provide certainty to consumers. therefore, such security will be produced by the financial market through new insurance services and through the producers' own brand development.
in writing. we understand that there can be major problems in the construction sector in spain and that there can be cases where unsuspecting citizens buy properties in good faith which it later turns out that construction companies did not have the legal right to build. however, these are problems which can and should be solved within the legal framework of the member state. there is no reason to introduce any legislation at eu level to deal with these issues.
in writing. it is important to analyse the different experiences of member states with regard to juvenile delinquency and to disseminate good practice. however, this can be done within the framework of already existing structures at national as well as community level. that is why we voted against paragraph 33 on the establishment of a european youth crime observatory.
in writing. although i am against a common asylum policy, which experience shows undermines the rights of asylum seekers, i abstain because the proposed improvements do not, after all, justify a refusal.
writer. ethiopia ranks 170 out of 177 countries in terms of human development. ethiopia has other things to do than repressing dissidents, imprisoning them and treating people as a collective rather than prosecuting them for specific crimes. we have already criticised the way ethiopia is dealing with its opposition in october 2005, but in 2006 and this year the situation has worsened. i think we need to tighten the requirements on ethiopia. the headquarters of the african union is, after all, in the country. they must set a good example and we cannot accept that the country which hosts our partner, the african union, is engaged in widespread human rights violations throughout the judiciary. before we can tackle all the problems that are associated with poverty and poverty-related problems, we must be able to help them to combat these human rights violations. without a living opposition, we cannot solve the problems.
i would like to thank and congratulate the german presidency for what it has achieved together with the commission. their work has laid the foundations for a new treaty. i thank and congratulate you on the basis of what has been achieved, but also on the basis of what will be possible in the future. a new treaty is not an end in itself. the need for it has grown out of the successes of european cooperation: enlargement, which has given more member states and a stronger union, but also more different wills to deal, the internal market, which has given europe a stronger economic role in the world, and political integration and foreign policy, which have given the eu greater responsibility in the world. all this has called for and calls for a new treaty. but what is now possible also underlines that it is not the treaties themselves that are the end but the action that can come out of them. it is now possible to deal with three questions which, not least in the light of our historical background, are more important than others. the first concerns the climate and the need for an energy policy that will enable the eu member states to stand together and safeguard their integrity and security. the second concerns the future enlargement of the eu. the question of enlargement is now clear and topical again and must be further pursued by the governments of the member states and the commission. it is enlargement that has strengthened the union, given it new tasks and given us a unique opportunity for peace and prosperity. the single market has also played a decisive role in this respect. i would therefore like to remind you that any challenge to free and open competition is not just about economics, but also about the equal opportunities of the member states, people and businesses throughout the european union. anyone who questions this is questioning the european union's ability to bring people together. i therefore make a clear appeal to the commission, the german presidency and the next one: remove all doubt that there will be safe, free and open competition for everyone in europe. competition brings prosperity and freedom and new successes.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the commission and commissioner markos kyprianou for the good cooperation. i would also like to thank the german and portuguese presidencies and the council of ministers for their willingness to find common agreements on these matters which are so important for so many operators and consumers. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs of the other reports in this package, avril doyle and mojca drčar murko, and the shadow rapporteurs of my two reports. we have had many valuable meetings and the atmosphere of cooperation has been very good. i therefore have high hopes that the continuing discussions on these matters will flow in the same constructive spirit. i shall begin by talking about the proposal for a regulation on food additives. many times the use of additives is absolutely necessary to increase the shelf life of food or to improve its consistency. but it is far from clear how all additives affect our health and the environment, and sometimes additives are used to mislead us consumers. i therefore want to strengthen eu legislation on food additives, in particular by tightening the requirement that consumers must not be misled and that the authorization must take account of the impact on the environment and the situation of allergies. the current legislation already requires that the additives used do not mislead consumers, but unfortunately this happens all too often. one example is the use of coloring agents to trick consumers into thinking that the cheap yogurt contains more fruit or berries than it actually does. therefore, the requirement that additives must not be used in a way that misleads consumers must be tightened up. this was also the view of the committee on the environment, and i hope that parliament will also support this position tomorrow. what we eat does not stay in our own bodies but is also spread out into nature. therefore, the environmental impact of additives must be taken into account in the decision whether or not to use them. environmental protection should also be one of the objectives of the regulation. to further clarify this, the legal basis for food law should be amended to make it clear that it aims to improve human health and the environment and not only to promote the free movement of goods in the eu internal market. the committee on the environment has supported a number of proposals to increase environmental consideration and i hope that parliament will be able to do the same tomorrow. now, to the allergy sufferers and their situation. today, all food containing allergens must be labeled. that's good, but it's not enough. allergic and intolerant people should be able to eat food sold in normal food shops and restaurants and not be subject to special dietary restrictions. therefore, the choice of additives that are inconvenient for allergy sufferers should not be restricted by authorisation, unless there are other compelling reasons for authorisation. the committee on the environment has partly supported my demands on this and i hope that tomorrow parliament will take the opportunity to make things even easier for allergy sufferers by supporting my amendment and others to take greater account of allergy sufferers. so a few words about a group of dyes called azo dyes. they were previously banned in sweden because they can cause problems for allergy sufferers. recently, the british newspaper the guardian also drew attention to a still unpublished british study that again sparks the rather frightening discussion about a possible link between azo dyes and hyperactivity in children. i therefore support the requirement that foodstuffs containing azo dyes be specifically labelled. in conclusion, we must ask ourselves: who will decide on the contents of our food in the future and how will this decision be taken? i would urge all members to vote against the amendments which seek to limit consumer transparency in the approval process and to vote instead for the amendments which seek to increase transparency and openness. the secrecy surrounding our food risks seriously damaging public confidence in both the eu and the food industry. when decisions are taken jointly by the council of ministers and the european parliament, the decision-making process is also more democratic and more transparent. the committee procedure risks the democratic possibility of holding responsible decision-makers to account and the transparency and possibilities of influencing decisions are severely limited. in addition, unfortunately, there have been cases where decisions taken in committee have exceeded their powers and therefore not followed the framework agreed by parliament and the council of ministers. an example of this is the use of aid funds, which was brought to the attention of the european parliament just this week. i therefore advise parliament to be involved in these matters, even if there are advantages to the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
for the verts/ale group. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their good cooperation. this has led, among other things, to my amendments limiting the use of flavour enhancers, warning against azo dyes and requiring labelling and risk assessment of genetically modified additives and pesticides used as preservatives to be incorporated into the report. i hope that these amendments will be adopted in plenary. i support the rapporteur in proposing a double legal basis. the environmental impact of additives must be taken into account when authorising. this may be necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the purification process in the purification plants. the main thrust of the commission's proposal is to introduce a committee procedure for additives. the risk is that too many additives will be approved and only those substances which are proven to be dangerous will be banned. the experience of efsa shows that the precautionary principle is not well understood. in addition, one of the basic requirements of the regulation is that consumers should not be misled. it is a political question how to interpret it and therefore a question for parliament. we have the right to natural, good and safe food. often, additives are used in foods that are not fresh or natural. consumers have every reason to believe that natural and fresh food will not lose its competitive edge through lax legislation on additives, which favours food made for large-scale and centralised production with long transport times, which is hardly good for the environment either. it is therefore absurd that the commission should state that colour in otherwise colourless food is a particularly important reason for allowing the use of colours. the proposal to use longer shelf life as a specific reason for the use of sweeteners is misleading and should be deleted. in the interest of protecting children, i hope to get support for restricting the color of food to children. and nanoparticles should not be authorised under this regulation as it is not adapted to handle its properties. we should also take special care to avoid allowing additives to limit the food choices of those with allergies. of course, manufacturers who do not provide sufficient information on their additives should not be allowed to use them. there should be no profit in withholding information. all these things have been put forward as amendments by the green group. if these are approved, we will have legislation to protect consumers. the same logic has been applied by the green group to the other regulations. naturally spicy food must not be disadvantaged, as it is in the commission's proposal. i urge everyone to support natural seasoning and not be fooled by the synthetic additive industry.
the eu's role and responsibility in the field of health is and should remain limited. but perhaps the most important thing the eu can do is to enable its citizens to seek healthcare in other eu countries. for many patients, healthcare in another eu country can be a matter of life and death. it is therefore incomprehensible that so many member states are doing everything in their power to limit that very possibility. european healthcare consumers should have access to the full range of healthcare services in europe, but this requires knowledge and information. here, the health programme could play an invaluable role in disseminating information on health and healthcare to all patients across europe. i therefore think, and many like me do, that it is regrettable that this very aspect seems to have been largely ignored when the commission revised its proposal for a new health programme for budgetary reasons. i understand, however, that the opposition to this has been very strong. but what is so sensitive about increasing transparency between the different health care systems in the member states? why don't you focus on measuring outcomes in health care - how many people are actually getting help to get better - rather than available resources like beds and hospital days? the only explanation i can see is that you want to keep patients uninformed and powerless. it is equally incomprehensible that the compromise reached by the member states of europe with our rapporteur, mr antonio trakatellis, has required that the documents i have received to strengthen the position of patients be deleted. why, for example, do they not want to confirm that patients have rights also as consumers of health care? they deleted that very sentence. i find that embarrassing. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, health decisions should be taken at the lowest possible level. for me, it is the patients, regardless of what politicians and bureaucrats in the member states say. that is why we should empower patients through european cooperation, giving them more knowledge and more power. in short, let the patients take control of their own illness.
madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a report which has a strong message for a vital internal market for electricity and gas. there are two main points that should be underlined. first, the importance of an efficient gas and electricity market is greater than ever if we are to fight climate change, if we are to secure the opportunities for renewable energies and if we are to take care of european competitiveness. this also applies to consumers. second, we need an energy policy that can face the challenge of the risk of dependency on either big domestic producers or on foreign stakeholders that try to combine economic power with political pressures by controlling production as well as distribution. those are two elements that we need to deal with if we are to have a strong common energy policy. those are the reasons why the european union needs an energy market with fair and undistorted competition, with open markets, without economic patriotism, but rather characterised by liberté, égalité et fraternité. we need unbundling in order to ensure there is competition and new energy sources, and we need a common electric grid and gas networks across the whole of europe in order to ensure that there is an efficient market and solidarity. in these ways we can combine solidarity with efficiency, competition with cooperation and the efforts of fighting climate change with economic growth. that is why it is important to support the rapporteur and his report.
for the verts/ale group. i used to play with mercury when i was a kid. i hope that this directive will ensure that future generations of children do not do this. now there is a compromise with the council and it is high time we accepted it. we know that mercury is harmful to people and nature. we know that mercury can almost always be replaced by less dangerous substances. the compromise in the council of ministers is balanced and comes 14 years after sweden introduced its national ban on mercury thermometers. there's no more time to lose. those who are now considering voting on a technically unjustified proposal from the barometer lobby should know that the whole ban risks being delayed and made more difficult if it is approved. it would be irresponsible. dentists, laboratories and hospitals have phased out mercury. there's no difficulty whatsoever measuring air pressure without mercury. if you want to be nostalgic, you can buy an old barometer. it remains legal in the internal market even with this ban which does not apply to antiques.
it's actually surprising that we have to have this debate. mercury is one of the most dangerous poisons that we have in our midst. of course, it should not be used unless absolutely necessary. i am surprised that anyone would consider that preserving the manufacture of old barometers and thermometers is more important than protecting the health of the people. as a pregnant woman, i know all too well the dangers of mercury. i know that no one who is to bear children should eat the fish that i and many others have eaten throughout our childhood. is that how we're gonna do it? shouldn't young women be allowed to eat normal food? should a pregnant woman worry that her fetus is being harmed by mercury, which comes from products that unnecessarily contain this substance? before this debate, we have received letters saying that we must protect the traditional manufacture of barometers. this is really embarrassing! how can anyone think that i value the possible pleasure of having a barometer more than the risk of using mercury for future generations? i hope that all my colleagues will show in the vote tomorrow how embarrassing these letters are and that we will take our responsibility for the environment and human health seriously by voting against all the amendments which aim to maintain the use of mercury.
mr president, i wonder if you could check that the interpretation came out correctly. i said i played with mercury as a child and i hope future generations will not be exposed to that risk. just to be absolutely clear.
i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a good report and a well-done job. it seems that we in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs are systematically going through all the areas of society which affect the threats to citizens from terrorism. this was also raised by the president today. it is essential that we do not look at each measure individually but look at all areas together so that we have common security rules covering everything from visa rules and security checks on board aircraft to how to better protect ourselves against threats to airports, public transport and ports and the whole infrastructure which, because of its large number of passengers, could be hit by a major disaster in the event of a terrorist attack. the question i want to raise from the rapporteur's proposal is whether three or more member states should be required to suffer from disruption or destruction or whether two should suffice. the rapporteur's proposal increases the number of directives from two to three compared with the original proposal. i do not think that this tightening is reasonable because a threat or an accident or a disaster can affect many people, even though it affects a few countries. moreover, for the affected location, it may be more significant than more centrally located locations in the eu. this proposal also makes it more difficult for smaller eu members to be taken into account, despite the fact that they are at risk of being hit by at least as large and severe crises. i also believe that as we close the holes and make it more difficult to attack the aircraft, the terrorists will target other targets and central locations within the infrastructure where very great damage can be done. it's our responsibility.
i hope you succeed, markus ferber. better late than never! in sweden, postal services were deregulated as early as 1993. to colleagues eva lichtenberger and francis wurtz and other skeptics, i would like to say: sweden is an excellent example of the functioning of an open postal market. all the surveys show that the customers are very satisfied. the service has improved, the opening hours have been extended and the availability has increased. today, there are 40 percent more postmen than in 2001. those of you in belgium who are worried, consider that on the surface there are 15 belgians on one swede. belgium has almost 350 inhabitants per square kilometre, sweden 22 and a very different topography. the mail arrives on time even in my remote and sparsely populated country and the government does not have to budget extra money to meet the universal service requirements. new times call for new solutions. fear not, my friends! finally, amendment no 79 is about fair reporting, about creating greater transparency and clarity to avoid unfair competition and cross-subsidisation.
madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur. there are certain things we have to ask ourselves as we proceed with the financial services and the reform process, and that is whether we want the european financial markets to be vital and dynamic and at the centre of the global financial development. the answer is obviously ‘yes’. however, we also need to be sure that they can be attractive globally and that they can attract capital and vitality. that gives us some aims, because we must have regulations in place to ensure transparency and credibility, and we should avoid regulations aiming to regulate the competition, the product and the services. it should be the opposite. we should ensure that we have fundamental common rules that give way for the new future-oriented financial services here in europe. this is a balance where i would like the final outcome of the report to be more open-minded, advocating opening up for competition. i should like to stress that there should not be any sort of economic patriotism in the financial sector in europe, because that would hinder the dynamic development and growth of european financial markets. with regard to the future of the financial services in europe, we should head for the words of the french revolution: liberté, égalité, fraternité. that is competition and that could create dynamics in the european financial markets.
the rapporteur. i would just like to draw the attention of members to the fact that amendment no 1 has been withdrawn in order to allow for an agreement with the council at first reading. the members of the committee have been informed of this measure.
madam president, on a point of order, you are obviously having trouble seeing me at the moment. i asked twice for a check on my own report, which was refused. i just want to put it on record that perhaps this has happened because you cannot hear a woman sitting at the back, perhaps you will not give the floor or listen to that kind of request. you and your colleagues have been wrong several times, and although you listened to the request for a check, you did not in the case of my report, and i asked for twice. i think that should be put on record. thank you. (applause)
in writing. the votes on the westlund reports are not just about which food additives may be used. they concern, in particular, who is to decide on individual matters concerning food additives. unlike the rapporteur, we moderates do not believe that the european parliament should evaluate and decide to approve individual food additives, for example on the basis of details such as the risks posed by individual food additives to allergy sufferers. it means politicizing important issues that should be decided on a scientific basis and at the level of government. we therefore reject the proposal for extended co-decision by parliament. consequently, we voted against the overly detailed rules in today's vote.
i would like to thank all those involved, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, for the good work that has been done in the committee to produce a report on which we can have a great deal of agreement. we shall be looking at this report in the light of the global challenges and demographic trends which mean that we must change europe. i have said it before and i will say it again: the commission has started from the wrong end. the important thing is to feel safe in the change. then labor law is not the most important thing. the most important thing is an active labour market policy. it is about training, lifelong learning and good safety systems so that the individual can move to new activities in the old company or to a new company in various ways. it must be seen as a positive and not as a threat. the commission therefore started at the wrong end by challenging the labour law. a good labour law is needed in europe to ensure the safety of workers. how's it looking today? we have growth and we have employment growth in europe. that's good. but we also see another development. the number of bad and unsafe jobs is increasing, jobs where there is no livelihood, jobs where there are poor working conditions and so on. we must deal with this and we will not do so by weakening labour law. instead, we do it by taking the bad jobs, making them safer and better so that they're more like the norm of full-time jobs. that's the way we have to go. the commission has also since focused on individual labour law. it's unfortunate, you know. collective labour law plays a major role in many european countries. the social partners play a major role in labour law. it would also be appropriate to highlight collective labour law and the important work of the social partners in the form of social dialogue.
the rapporteur. i think it was jacques delors who said that the internal market for goods and services can never survive without a strong social dimension. why did he say that? it is about not competing with each other in the internal market with bad working conditions, low wages, etc. why not? because the wage-earners of europe would never accept such a policy. the flexicurity debate also shows that we cannot compete with non-eu countries through poor wages and working conditions. then we cannot do it within the eu either. that is the perspective in which we should view the posting of workers directive. the posting directive was created to ensure fair and good working conditions for employees: pay, working hours and other working conditions. there's been talk of minimum rules, but if we're to follow the opinion of the attorney general in the laval case, it's not just minimum rules. it's actually a rule of thumb. that is the extent of the advocate general's opinion. it's important to the mercenaries. it is important for them to have good conditions, but it is also important for the companies. if we had not had this regulatory framework, we would have favoured the companies that pay bad wages and the companies that have bad working conditions. it would not have been neutral in terms of competition. this is important for both employees and companies. the commission has made an interpretation. i can say that there are some things we agree on, but there are also some things we disagree on. let me start with the parts we agree on. there is a need for better information exchange between the authorities of the various member states. companies which temporarily have a presence in another country need to be much better informed about the conditions in the country they are coming to. there are a lot of things we can do there in the future. the commission has looked at the case law and has sometimes over-interpreted it, but sometimes also correctly interpreted it. as far as third country nationals are concerned, we have no comment on the interpretation given by the commission, but on some other matters we do not share the same view. let me give you two examples. one is the requirement for a representative. the commission has thereby over-interpreted the existing legal conception. the case in point is that the representative would have to be resident in the country where the activity is carried out. we do not make that demand. it is important, however, that countries can demand a representative who is not just anyone but who has a real mandate to represent the company. it's important in my country where we have collective bargaining agreements. but it is also important in other countries from the perspective of the authorities, for working conditions and other things. it must be possible to require a representative, that person, to be authorized to represent the company. the next question concerns social documentation. these are cases which the commission refers to. it's about belgium and if you were to keep records for five years. it's an unreasonable time. i can agree with that. but there is a need for documentation showing which employees are employed and working and what wages and hours they have. it is certainly needed during the time the work is being done and also for a reasonable time afterward. we know that some of this is rigged, so we need a reasonable amount of time afterwards. the commission's mistake is to over interpret its communication. you're over-interpreting the law. it's important to have a representative. it's important to have social documentation. the commission says that we should not challenge any labour market model in europe. that is an important statement, but it is precisely what is being made when criticising the member states which require representatives and social documentation. if we are not allowed to do so, it will be impossible to have an orderly labour market and impossible to maintain our labour market model. then we're talking about a different model. the commission should take this into account. germany has also been the target of the same criticism as the nordic countries. i would just like to raise one last point about balance. the countries which have no controls at all should also be criticised. there are countries that do not have sufficient controls, which may result in workers working under conditions that do not meet the requirements of the posting of workers directive. these countries should be criticised.
that's a positive answer. i would like to ask the commissioner to take an initiative with the member states to establish a more regulated form and to ensure that writers and journalists who have the opportunity to come to europe can also do so. i think that is our duty in view of the extremely difficult situation in the world. let me remind the commissioner that last year 113 media workers were murdered, 807 were imprisoned, almost 1 500 people were physically attacked, 56 were kidnapped, 18 writers were killed, 144 were imprisoned. it's time to act. the commissioner's initiative of a scholarship at eu level could be considered.
i am convinced that the fears of china's economic growth are actually exaggerated. i think that those who have a sufficiently long historical perspective on trade policy will recognize much of the anxiety and arguments from the debate on the integration of japan and other asian tigers like korea and taiwan into the world economy. it is easy to be intimidated by their relative size, is it not? but as the commissioner pointed out, their economies complement europe and their size is probably rather a great opportunity for europe. i am convinced that the long and strong growth and boom that the world is experiencing right now is largely due to the fact that china, india and other major countries in the world are being integrated into the global economy. this does not mean, however, that there are no problems in trade relations. i think we have many important problems to deal with, such as copyright infringement, intellectual property issues and closed chinese markets for everything from financial services to car parts. but i am almost more concerned about the tendencies towards protectionism that china's rise is causing in europe. not that i think the commissioner stands for it, but there are many voices now calling for more trade barriers to stop imports from china. talks about stopping chinese textile exports and other things have been heard here tonight. i am convinced that european trade barriers against china are costing european consumers and european businesses more money than the import of chinese goods. that is why we should continue to fight european trade barriers rather than chinese exports. in fact, the growing prosperity in china and the trade with that country is not only giving thousands, millions, hundreds of millions of chinese people a more dignified and richer life. it also makes europe richer. we must not forget that trade is never a zero-sum game. we're both winners.
in writing. although we are against parliament sitting in strasbourg, we have voted against the proposal to remove thursdays from the strasbourg sessions. we want parliament to move to brussels, but a change to thursdays would make parliament's work less efficient. the savings to be made by such a change are marginal and the environmental gains are non-existent, since the same transport will be carried out and the same premises will be needed in the future. we want a real change with a single seat and also a working place for parliament in brussels, as we also proposed in the leinen report on the intergovernmental conference.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report, but we do not share the view that it is regrettable that symbols such as the flag and the anthem have been removed from the new draft treaty. we also do not believe that the proposal gives the impression of mistrust of the union and sends the wrong signals to the citizens. the good thing is that the main content of the original draft constitution is preserved. the facilitation of enlargement, the strengthening of collective agreements and the right to take military action in accordance with national practice, and the increase of transparency within the union are particularly important.
in writing. i have voted against this report because i think it is completely out of touch with reality. the people of france and the netherlands have rejected the proposal for a european union foundation in referendums! if a referendum had also taken place in, for example, sweden, denmark and the united kingdom, a majority of voters in those countries would certainly have rejected the proposal. now the summit has removed the symbols and thrown out the proposals for an eu anthem and a european flag. but as far as the future legislative powers of the eu over the member states are concerned, there is no difference between the rejected proposal and the one now proposed. it is also interesting to note how the federalist majority in the european parliament's draft report is now trying to circumvent the rejection of the anthem and flag. i voted in favour of extending the mandate of the intergovernmental conference to allow the seat of the european parliament to be moved from strasbourg to brussels. as regards the question of referendums on the new treaty, i believe that each country must decide for itself whether or not to hold a referendum. i think they should do so, but the european parliament as an institution should not interfere in this.
in writing. i do not think that the new draft treaty makes any major changes compared with the previous one and i cannot therefore support the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. although i am in favour of a referendum in sweden on the new treaty, i think it is wrong to demand this at eu level. it is not for the european parliament to decide whether or not member states should hold a referendum.
in writing. in the final vote on the ferber report on the liberalization of postal services, we decided to support the compromise adopted. we are therefore supporting the fastest possible path to achieve full liberalisation of postal services in europe. we also regret that there is strong resistance to the earlier objective of liberalisation by 2009. today's decision is a step in the right direction, even if we had hoped to have succeeded in completely deregulating postal services within the ten-year period set aside to make the eu the most competitive economy in the world through the lisbon process.
in writing. i am generally sceptical about the consequences of the liberalization of postal services for the average consumer, especially in rural areas. i have voted in favour of the whole of the amendments tabled by the european parliament. but i have also supported important amendments which say, among other things, that the collection and delivery of mail should take place at the residence or premises of every natural or legal person every day, and that in a competitive and liberalised market there should be an obligation to provide free services for the blind and visually impaired. i have also voted in favour of some proposals which give member states greater freedom to choose how to balance the liberalisation of the postal market with universal service.
i support the report, but i would like to raise three points of principle which were not put to the vote in plenary. the first is the view of small businesses. it is quite obvious that we can go towards both greater flexibility and greater security for workers and still have simpler rules for small businesses. i am deeply sorry that no such consideration has been given in this report. the second point i would like to raise is the scandinavian approach, or as the report calls it, the scandinavian situation. but there are very big differences between the scandinavian countries. the previous swedish social democratic government did not work sufficiently with both flexibility and security, which has led to a radically different situation in sweden compared to denmark. this is particularly true of youth unemployment, which is more than three times higher in sweden than in denmark. the last point i would like to make is the view on the position of women in life and in the world of work, where the report expresses a very old-fashioned view on gender equality.
in writing. the draft report contains a number of interesting points. first, recital n states that: "hundreds of thousands of women have no choice but to accept illegal working conditions because they are doing household work outside their own home or have caring responsibilities for elderly family members". at the same time, the scandinavian countries are cited in two places as examples of strong employment protection and good employment standards being fully compatible with high employment growth (paragraph 13) and of the right to take collective action applied by some nordic countries being compatible with the ec treaty and to be respected by the commission (paragraph 18). i would just like to point out that the situation on the labour market for women is very different in the different member states. the debate and the results of the general elections in each of the member states must determine how child and elder care is to be organised. i personally believe that sweden has come a long way towards an equal society and a model for women's access to the labour market. but it is up to the voters in each member state to decide which model they want to support in their own countries.
in writing. the political content of the report is generally good, but unfortunately it elevates too much of labour law to the level of the european union. this risks eroding national labour law and the swedish model in the long term, due to the focus on the market and the dominance of the right. that is why i cannot vote for it. i shall abstain.
in writing. i support the report, but i would like to raise three points of principle on which it was not possible to vote. the first is the view of small businesses. it is quite obvious that we can go towards both greater flexibility and greater security for workers and still have simpler rules for small businesses. i am deeply sorry that no such consideration has been given in this report. the second point i would like to raise is the scandinavian approach, or as the report calls it, the scandinavian situation. but there are very big differences between the scandinavian countries. the previous swedish social democratic government did not work sufficiently with both flexibility and security, which has led to a radically different situation in sweden compared to denmark. this is particularly true of youth unemployment, which is more than three times higher in sweden than in denmark. the last point i would like to make is the view on the position of women in life and in the world of work, where the report expresses a very old-fashioned view on gender equality.
i would like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs for their good work. the ecb shall perform its tasks properly. although the waves of debate are not always high, jean-claude trichet always manages to calm the emotions with a language worthy of a diplomat. the ecb has become much more open and transparent than before, but parliament's requirement for public records remains. it works well for other central banks and would give the ecb further strength and prestige. we also reiterate our wish for a more transparent procedure for the election of the ecb's executive board. safeguarding the ecb's independence and upholding the objective of price stability is of paramount importance. the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe gives the ecb, jean-clude trichet and jean-claude juncker its full support on this very central issue. we know that a firm stability policy is a fundamental prerequisite for a growing europe. unfortunately, many of us are concerned that the high-pitched tone of the french presidential campaign will now continue. monday's meeting in brussels will not reduce these concerns. it is also in the committee, although jean-clude juncker is trying to calm us down, and it is heard in the debate here today, where there is an expansive discussion. there are phrases in the report which could be taken as a way of questioning the independence of the ecb and having more political involvement. we reject this. i refer to the wording of paragraph 10, which in turn refers precisely to article 111 of the treaty, as benoît hamon says. it would be extremely unfortunate if our report could be interpreted in any way as a challenge to the ecb.
it is now barely four years since sweden held a referendum on the euro and by a very large majority voted no to the introduction of the euro as a currency. the arguments against joining the eurozone were and are many. on the one hand, it is a very unstable political project, and on the other hand, it is extremely problematic for a country not to be able to control its own interest rate in order to be able to react to economic cycles. these fears have been confirmed, and we are now seeing the impact on countries that have switched their currency to the euro. has sweden lost the battle to keep the crown? recent studies show that trade has been affected, but to a negligible extent. the benefits of sweden not adopting the euro are much more valuable. we have a completely different possibility to control our development because the interest rate can be adjusted to the prevailing conditions in sweden without the riksbank having to take account of the economic situation in other countries. i therefore believe that, contrary to what commissioner joaquín almunia has said here in the house, it is necessary that the swedish veto be respected and that sweden too be given a formal derogation from the euro, just as denmark and the united kingdom have been given. anything else would be highly undemocratic.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in december 2005 the european council decided to grant the former yugoslav republic of macedonia the status of candidate country. in doing so, it took into account in particular the substantial progress made by ukraine in completing the legislative framework related to the ohrid framework agreement, as well as its performance in implementing the stabilisation and association agreement. the european council also stressed at that time that the new stages would have to be weighed against the fulfilment of certain conditions set out in its conclusions. a year later, in december 2006, the council welcomed the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia but regretted that the pace of reforms had slowed down in 2006. in these circumstances, the european council of december 2006 called for an acceleration of the pace of reforms in key areas and the implementation of the priorities identified in the european partnership in order to move forward with a view to the accession process. the next meeting of the stabilisation and association council with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, to be held on 24 july in brussels, will provide an opportunity to review the application and implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement and to address important issues arising under the agreement, as well as any other bilateral and international issues of mutual interest. on the basis of the commission's annual reports, the next of which is due in the autumn, the council will make a more complete assessment of the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia towards meeting the conditions and requirements laid down by the european union. as regards developments in the situation in the country, the european union attaches great importance to the existence of stable and functioning democratic institutions and to effective political dialogue. these are the essential elements for the continuation of the process of integration into the european union. in this context, i would like to welcome the fact that the two parties, evmro dpmne and dui, reached an agreement on 29 may 2007 on the way forward on certain issues of mutual interest, and subsequently witnessed the return of dui to parliament. the council now expects political dialogue on national issues of fundamental importance to continue between all political parties represented in parliament and between all stakeholders at the level of the legitimate political institutions. maintaining a constructive political atmosphere will be important to allow the country to focus on the essential reforms needed to move forward on the path towards european union. the areas to be promoted include the strengthening of public administration, the effective rule of law, judicial reform and the fight against corruption, as well as the further implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement. the ohrid framework agreement is also worth mentioning in this context. the full and continued implementation of this framework agreement is an essential element of the political criteria and will remain crucial for the further integration process into the european union. in this respect it is important that full confidence in the application of the badinter principle be maintained. we also hope that further progress will be made in areas such as decentralisation and equal representation. the reforms in the ohrid context should be pursued on the basis of as broad an agreement as possible and in full compliance with the spirit and letter of the framework agreement.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, let me first thank the portuguese presidency and mr lobo antunes for the priority the portuguese presidency is giving to the eu perspective on the western balkans as we have seen again today. that is very important for europe’s future. mr meijer’s report addresses many of the issues where the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will face challenges on its path to the european union, particularly in the political sphere. i am confident that the adoption of a resolution by parliament will be an important contribution to the eu integration process of the country. i welcome the strong emphasis placed in the motion for a resolution on the importance of the implementation of the 2001 ohrid framework agreement. this agreement has not only been a promise of reconciliation and stability: it has also been a noticeable example of the difficult but rewarding art of making compromises for the common good. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia became a model in the region for promoting a multiethnic society in a unitary democratic state and for defining mechanisms allowing for a consensual approach to interethnic issues. this approach was indeed crucial for the eu in deciding to grant candidate status to the country in december 2005. continuing in the same way will remain essential all along the accession process. in that context, the commission welcomes the progress achieved in the political dialogue between the government and part of the opposition. dialogue is indeed essential to ensure the stability and functioning of the institutions, as well as to ensure that the process of implementing the reforms is as inclusive as possible. we now look forward to seeing this dialogue continue. we also look forward to seeing it deepen, especially in the parliament, and lead to practical, real results. it is essential that the political agreement reached between the vmro and the dui will now be duly implemented. other key challenges include the effective implementation of the police and judiciary reforms as well as the fight against corruption and organised crime. your report rightly recognises the positive role which the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has played and is playing in the region. nevertheless, we see the need to continue encouraging the country in its efforts towards regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. the commission will assess the progress made by the country in our annual progress report which is due to be adopted on 7 november this year. we shall also present a proposal for a new partnership, drawing up a roadmap for reforms that are needed in the coming years in the country. all in all, the country still has plenty of work ahead and progress on its european road will be determined by its ability to meet the political criteria. to conclude, there are many challenges to be met. progress in the eu integration process is indeed in the hands of the leaders of the country. i trust that the government and parliament of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will take into account the sound and solid suggestions and recommendations contained in your motion for a resolution.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. when we discuss a country and its relationship with the eu, it often happens that the discussions turn into a list of things that we think are good or things that we want to criticize about that country. often we forget a deeper background and a broader perspective. when we talk about the eu and enlargement, we talk too often about economic cooperation, money and the cost of enlargement. but we too seldom look at enlargement from the security point of view and at european cooperation from the peace point of view. macedonia and its approach to the eu are typical examples of this lesson, which we sometimes forget, but which the history of the balkans reminds us of from time to time. the geopolitical situation of macedonia is a valuable resource that can make a strong contribution to the security of the region. but the same geopolitical situation also brings different challenges and sometimes great strains to the country. it is therefore extremely important that we give macedonia a clear eu perspective, as this report does. an eu perspective not only for macedonia but for the whole region can mean the difference between a way back to the conflicts of the past or a way forward and a future of freedom and democracy. but an eu perspective also implies a number of obligations. the fight against corruption must continue. the cooperation between the majority and the various minorities must be strengthened and a number of reforms initiated. however, i believe that macedonia is already aware of these obligations and the work that remains, as it has already implemented a number of the reforms necessary to reintegrate the country into the european family as soon as possible. i say reunified because macedonia is and always has been part of europe. without a safe and secure macedonia, we will not have a safe and secure balkans, and without peace and security in the balkans, we will not have a peaceful and secure europe.
writer. imagine going to the doctor and having to pay your entire family's annual salary to afford treatment. imagine going to the doctor and being forced to choose between getting medicine for yourself and no food for the children or food for the children and no medicine for yourself. this choice faces millions of people today. two years ago, i helped start the drugs for neglected diseases initiative. many of us in this parliament took the initiative in producing this report and we have had a very good cooperation. we are very much in agreement on these issues. i would like to stress to the commission that parliament takes very seriously the need for rules to ensure access to medicines. today, 12 million people die each year from lack of medicine, especially for tropical diseases. patients are poor, there's no money to be made in research for them, and then we can't get new drugs. we must therefore address the question of the availability of existing medicines and the question of research and development of new medicines. because these countries will never be able to get out of their poverty if their population is staying home sick. the trips+ agreements must not be incorporated into the economic partnership agreements and undermine the ability of these countries to supply their populations with medicines. in my speaking time i do not even have time to repeat all the abbreviations on the various patent-related issues which the commission is currently pursuing in the economic partnership negotiations. we're asking you to stop. as far as research is concerned, we need an eu-wide fund or a global tax on the profits of pharmaceutical companies. otherwise, we will never be able to develop the medicines that will lift these people out of poverty. the right to survival is above all other rights.
a lot has happened since the orange revolution, both in ukraine and in the eu. what has happened in ukraine, the problems and challenges that ukraine has faced and is facing, and the work and reforms that remain for the country to implement are described in the report that we are discussing today. as in most of our debates on eu relations with other countries, we describe the situation in the country concerned. we make demands and issue summonses. but too seldom do we reflect on how europe has changed over time. in the less than three years that i have been a member of the european parliament, europe has become less open, less solidarity and less warmth, and more closed, more introverted and more cold. we think too often about what things cost and too seldom about what they mean for ourselves and for the europe of our children. this is particularly true when we start talking about a country's eu perspective or the possibility of future membership. i am therefore pleased that this report supports ukraine's desire and ambition to move closer to the eu and one day also to rejoin the rest of europe. i deliberately use the word 'reunification' rather than 'enlargement' because ukraine, like the rest of eastern europe, is and has always been part of europe. it's just that for decades these countries were hijacked by communism. it is time to correct this mistake and the best way to do so in the case of ukraine is to support this report, to support the further development of relations between ukraine and the eu and to give ukraine a clear eu perspective which, of course, must not exclude membership when all the conditions for membership are met.
in writing. policies to combat climate change are obviously important. however, as is usual, the european parliament's majority takes the lead on some of the measures proposed in this resolution, outside the legislative procedure. the proposals increase bureaucracy and reinforce the image of the european parliament as an institution with elephant's foot. this report goes too far in some of its proposals and i have therefore voted against this 'thinking report' because i believe that it could have been formulated more narrowly and more clearly. the future of the eu's maritime policy is now too grim.
in writing. i am voting against amendment no 34 because marine biodiversity is not a strictly national issue. the resources of the sea are shifting and overfishing in one area affects the whole sea and can destroy areas and ecosystems that are much larger than national ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted.
in writing. i am generally positive about the development of the railways. it's important for the environment. but i cannot support the report's proposal in paragraph 4 that the european parliament should oppose extra-long lorries (so-called gigaliners). in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, member states must be allowed to decide whether or not these lorries fit into the traffic picture. i hope that the commission and the council will leave it to the member states to decide this question.
in writing. the cramer report states correctly that, in the transport of goods, environmental issues have been neglected. that is the consequence of the expansion of freight transport on the highways and by air, and at the same time the continuing reduction of transport by rail. the report recalls the promotion of road and air transport by means of financial instruments, which are also used to reduce rail transport. we would point out that many railway links to factories and harbours have recently been closed. however, we differ with the rapporteur on the capacities of the free market to solve this problem. the rapporteur, together with the rightist groups in this parliament, is of the opinion that free competition in trans-border transport is the best solution. the advocates of this view refer to the situation on the road and in the air, and expect that competition automatically attracts a new wave of companies interested. in practice we have seen that, until now, there have been no such positive results. despite this lack of reality, the rest of the report deserves our full support.
in writing. the report gives a good picture of how emu goes hand in hand with the creation of a european state. the report called for closer coordination of the economic policies of the member states. the external representation of the euro area is considered to need to be strengthened and internal coordination on the world stage improved. at the same time, it is noted that, inter alia, the evolution of competitiveness is divergent within the euro area and that the appreciation of the euro against, inter alia, the us dollar has created different effects in different member states depending on their economic structures and the elasticity of manufacturing industry. the report also recalls that the ecb's monetary policy can never be fully in line with the situation in a given member state. these were the factors that were used by the 'no' side in the 2003 swedish referendum on emu and won over a large majority of swedish voters. i can only say that the 'no' side in the referendum was quite correct in its argument that emu is a major step towards a united states of europe.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first, our thoughts are with the families who have lost loved ones, homes and possessions. it is important that the emergency response starts very quickly. society has also lost valuable forests, valuable lands. it is important that long-term aid be part of a sustainable development framework so that we do not pump money in and burn it out again. we talk about natural disasters, but increasingly, it's actually man-made disasters that are happening. we're changing the climate, which is leading to both extreme drought and extreme rainfall. we sometimes have a weak protection of our forests. we sometimes cut back on the civil defense that's supposed to save us from fires. to make this sustainable in the long term, climate action is needed, both legislation and a real protection of areas. i would like to see that a condition for european aid for development is reforestation and that the money is not used to cynically exploit forest fires for speculation in the development of new tourist areas or other land use changes. my green colleagues in greece have also asked me - because unfortunately we have no green meps from greece - to put forward a proposal to stop amendments to article 24 of the greek constitution which weaken the protection of forests. right now, the forests need extra protection. i don't want to criticize or defend the government today. there's an election campaign going on, and some people want to criticize the government, others want to defend it. but for now we are going to help greece and all the other countries affected - then we will take the criticism and analysis when the disaster is over.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. better regulation is a highly political project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is to strengthen citizens' confidence in the overall system of european integration, and the second is to provide a comprehensible and reliable framework for the european economy to generate growth and jobs. we've made a lot of progress. the european integration polls show a level of support that has not been seen for some time, our economic situation has improved significantly and is promising, and there is a broad consensus to continue on the path we have taken on the basis of our partnership for growth and jobs. better regulation is a key pillar of this policy for growth and jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the mood can change just as quickly, and we would be fooling ourselves if we thought that the image of the european union had already changed fundamentally. the idea is still deeply rooted in people's minds that everything that comes from europe is not appropriate, is oversized, is centralistic. this is undoubtedly an exaggeration, but it is important that this is the perception of the european public. so we have to work hard to counteract this reflex. we want a europe of results. we want a europe that brings security, prosperity and environmental protection to all areas of life. this must be reflected in all our concrete decisions in all policy areas, whether in chemicals legislation, pharmaceuticals, information technology or agriculture. and don't get me wrong, better regulation is not an image campaign. we have completely changed our style of politics and the way we prepare and review laws. i would like to stress once again that better regulation cannot be seen in isolation but is part of an overall strategy, a fundamental reorientation of european policy. there have been attempts in the past, but this project we are talking about today has two very special features: scope and sustainability. we used to deal with one-off adjustments. but now we have extended the scope of the concept of 'better regulation' to the whole process of european legislation. it ranges from examining the need for legislation under strict subsidiarity control, to broad consultation of the groups concerned, to impact assessment of the economic, social and environmental consequences, to the question of the best possible application and implementation of community law. but better regulation is not just about new initiatives, we are reviewing the whole existing legal framework to see where and how it can be simplified and modernised. the second innovation is the sustainability with which we are pursuing this approach. it is not a one-off action but, as some of the rapporteurs have already said, a process which is profound and far-reaching and which is being pursued consistently. all existing initiatives which have not been adopted by the legislator are reviewed regularly and, where appropriate, withdrawn. a review is currently underway with a view to the 2008 work programme. our simplification programme will continue in 2007 and 2008 and we will present a number of new initiatives to this end. the result is the progressive coverage of all areas of european union legislation. we are working with all the available methods, as mentioned and supported in mr gargani's report. half of the initiatives in the simplification programme have already been successfully completed and we will continue this work intensively until 2009. this means direct and tangible benefits for businesses, public authorities and private individuals. our aim is to ensure that our legislation is clear, understandable, user-friendly and takes account of technological progress. to check the quality and to assess the impact, we have set up the impact assessment board, a body which is independent of the commission services concerned and is already making a very positive contribution. i am very grateful to mrs lévai for her full support of this institution in her report. but i want to make it very clear that we have committed ourselves to reviewing this system next year and that we will draw the appropriate conclusions from the results if necessary. i would say this particularly in the light of the important suggestions made by mr doorn. one of the major focuses this year is on reducing the administrative burden of eu rules on businesses. we have already presented ten fast-track actions, two of which are already being successfully implemented thanks to the rapid support of the european parliament. there will be more suggestions. we are now in the process of carrying out a comprehensive measurement of the pressures that exist today in ten major sectors of the european economy, covering practically 85% of the total european economy, so that we can determine the reduction potential. the objective is indeed, as i have said, to reduce 25% of these costs by 2012. i agree with mr doorn completely. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the detriment of the environment. this is a very important point, and i am very grateful to parliament for having drawn attention to it. i hope that member states will set themselves similarly ambitious targets later this year, because this project can only succeed if it is jointly undertaken at european and national level. the project will of course have an important role to play for the groups concerned. we need backup. a high-level group of independent representatives in the field of administrative classes is therefore being set up. these independent experts, representing small and large businesses, consumers and environmental organisations, advise the commission on potential reduction measures. the commission - and i personally - is extremely grateful to the european parliament for the broad support we have received from the reports we are discussing today. the commission is particularly pleased that mrs lévai's report calls on the council and parliament to carry out a systematic impact assessment of substantial amendments. we had already agreed this in november 2005 in the joint interinstitutional approaches. the commission would also welcome the council and parliament to follow mr doorn's proposal and to further adapt their working methods in order to be able to carry out certain tasks in the context of legislative simplification quickly. it's not helping us if the projects stay in the pipeline. the commission would like to stress, with regard to the various instruments summarized in the report by mr medina ortega under the term 'soft law', that, on the one hand, conventional legislation is not the appropriate solution in all cases. i would like to stress once again the principle that laws should be made only where they are absolutely necessary. we have also instruments whose application is clearly regulated by the community treaties and also instruments which are exclusively intended to prepare future legislation. i can assure you, on behalf of the whole commission, that we will fully respect the rights of parliament in all the instruments we use and will keep parliament fully informed in the spirit of mutual respect between the institutions. in conclusion, let me stress once again what president barroso said here last april as a basic principle. european legislation is indeed the uniqueness of the european union, because we are a community of law. european integration is based on the rule of law. only the law can guarantee the freedoms enjoyed by europeans today. and only the law can provide a reliable and at the same time fair framework for the economy. the citizens of europe are entitled not only to better legislation but to the best legislation that is humanly possible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, first of all i should like to thank the rapporteur on better regulation in the european union, mrs lévai, and the committee on legal affairs, for accepting a number of the proposals made by my committee, which is very much appreciated. this is an area in which it is very easy to agree on our goal. however, that is not what the debate is about: it is about how to achieve results. the role of the commission in this must be underlined. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has proposed that the commission conduct an annual follow-up on the results of reducing the administrative burden by 25% by 2012. the role of the commission is also important in enabling choices to be made when discussing legislation or, for example, self-regulation or mutual recognition, and in ensuring that we have some such legislation and – something which the commission has also done – in withdrawing legislation that is not consistent with the lisbon process. we would like the commission to see the lamfalussy process as a good experience that has opened up financial markets in harmony with reality. however, we would also like to underline the commission’s own responsibilities, in its direct relations with citizens, to secure simplification and better regulation regarding research funding, grants, state aid, subsidies of various kinds and procurements. the commission does have a role to play on its own in this area. we would also hope that the commission will come back to the idea of giving citizens the right of action when member states do go in for gold-plating. it is important to have a counterbalance to the ever-increasing bureaucracy of all our local and national authorities and, one might also say, of the institutions of the european union. one way of doing this would be to give citizens the right of action.
madam president, i would like to thank you. to promote cooperation within the eu, the member states have signed several treaties which lay down the basic rules of what the eu is and what it can do. this is called primary law, and the eu institutions are prohibited from taking decisions without the support of the eu. i would like to draw the house's attention to the resolution by the rapporteur, mr manuel medina ortega, in which he calls on the commission to avoid using soft law. as we all know, soft law is a non-legally binding document drawn up by the commission to clarify the guidelines in various policy areas. the fact that the member states have a say in areas where total harmonisation of the law is only the impossible dream of the federalists is welcome, not regrettable as ortega puts it. the community is bound by community law only in those areas in which the member states have delegated the right to take decisions to the community.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have previously spoken about the importance of mobility for growth and employment in europe. we are talking about the mobility of employees who are continuing their training, seeking new occupations in their own country, changing occupations through continuing training, and about geographical mobility within countries but also about cross-border geographical mobility. if we look around europe, we see that it has an impact on growth. some of the countries with the highest mobility also have the highest growth and mobility in europe. it's very important. what about europe? the situation is such that it varies quite a lot from one country to another, but at the same time we see improvements. we've seen improvements in recent years. i myself come from a border region between two nordic countries where mobility was not so extensive at first but has increased most markedly in recent years. it is important for growth and employment that people on one side of the border can move across it to the other side of the border. they may not have gotten a job at first, but they get a job on the other side of the border. it's boosting growth across the region and it's good for the long term. we have several obstacles as well. i've seen that in this work. the obstacles are in the different social security systems, taxes and other things, and lack of information. as regards information on this, we have our cooperation on employment services, the eures cooperation. eures cooperation has developed in recent years. partly at the specific borders, but perhaps above all through their portal, which individual citizens can consult to obtain information on the location of jobs but also information on the situation regarding social security. what about taxes? what do i need to do if i am to move across a border? in the last budget we in the european parliament pushed through an increase of eur 2 million in eures cooperation. that is why we are putting the oral question and the resolution. we see a number of needs for further mobility. in our oral question we highlight the third country nationals. it's for the future. we know that europe needs additional labour and, not least, third country nationals. they already exist today and we should expand cooperation - not least with the neighbouring countries with which we have neighbourly cooperation - and expand the possibilities for them to also receive corresponding information on the employment situation, on social security systems and taxes. the second part is about seasonal workers. there has been seasonal work in the union for a long time and seasonal workers also need to be better informed about the situation, social benefits, what is the matter. it can be lifted out of the portal into eures. finally, i would also like to raise the question of whether the commission has any ideas on how to improve mobility in general. we had a great deal of discussion on the transitional rules and the mobility between the new member states and the old member states. a number of eu countries still apply the transitional rules. i hope that this period will be as short as possible and that we will soon be able to apply free movement in full, so that all transitional provisions will disappear. but it is also important to try to look around and see what has happened to the increased mobility of those countries which did not apply any transitional rules, because the mobility is not very extensive. it is not comprehensive and there are sufficient grounds for improving the information at all. if the transitional provisions are to be removed, we must also improve the information given to individual employees about the availability of jobs and what is required, what measures are required in terms of social security, taxes and the like. these are the questions we have put to the commission. i know that the commission shares the ambitions of the european parliament, but what does the commission intend to do?
mr president, i think there is widespread understanding of the importance of increased mobility and all the experiences are extremely good regarding workers, researchers – you can look everywhere. the success is very much in the mobility and european cooperation and we know it is important for the quality of employment, for the efficiency of labour markets, we know it is truly a european idea and we also know it is of utmost importance for the opportunities of the individual. but, having said that, we are still facing a number of obstacles. it is important to support eures and to ensure that it can do a good job. but at the same time we must ensure that the obstacles, for example the transition rules, are removed as soon as possible, because it is a paradox that one side tries to increase mobility and the other side accepts that mobility is hindered. the second thing that i think is important to say in this respect is that even when we remove these obstacles we still have too little mobility. that goes for our domestic labour market as well as across borders. i think that eures could be used not only in order to inform and improve the security for those who would like to move to another country and another labour market, as mr andersson pointed out here earlier today, but it could also be used in order to inform all the decision-making institutions of the remaining obstacles we have in the european labour markets because the gap between vision and theory on the one hand and the reality is quite big. and i think eures could have an information role in two ways: to those who are trying to move to other labour markets but also to all of us and the member states in order to make it much easier in reality to move. that is the challenge that we could discuss further here tonight.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the single market is one of the most important building blocks of cooperation within the european union. cooperation shall be based on mutual trust and respect between member states. it is therefore also crucial that everyone contributes by swiftly and effectively implementing the eu legislation to be implemented in national law. solvit is a good method for monitoring compliance and can be developed. we politicians working at european level in the parliament or in the council have a responsibility to ensure that legislation is pro-competitive and does not create unnecessary administration and that it meets the needs and solves the problems that still exist. to do this we must create a political consensus and a broad awareness of the importance of the internal market, to which both toubon and the commission are contributing. thank you, mr toubon! the ppe-de is committed to a europe for all, with jobs for all and a functioning health care system and no poor. a europe that can grow ever stronger. the only way to get there is by having a competitive market and not having trade stopped by outdated legislation, unnecessary tariffs, subsidies or market controls. without a functioning market and strong european companies, there is no money for welfare. the internal market and competitiveness are in themselves the creators of social security and the conditions for prosperity.
in writing. we believe that traditional legislation and the open method of coordination can coexist and that both are still needed. we therefore do not share the view that the open method of coordination should be used only in exceptional cases. it should also continue to be used when harmonisation is not a desirable or feasible path. however, we share the view that the european parliament should be made more involved when the open method of coordination is used.
in writing. we consider the report to be a balanced view of the internal market and particularly welcome the work on the social and environmental impact assessments which will form the basis for new policy initiatives. however, we do not share the view on the role of nuclear power and believe that it is unclear in tax matters. we are asking ourselves, for example, what initiatives the commission is supposed to take in the field of excise duties and vat, and we point out that the level of taxation is a matter for the member states. we also question the trade protection measures referred to in the report. although we would have liked to see stronger texts on social clauses, we voted for the report as a whole, welcoming the revision and the main features of the report.
in writing. junilista shares the rapporteur's general view that the single market is one of the greatest achievements of the eu and that it is necessary to develop and improve it further. however, we are against several of the specific proposals highlighted in this report. we firmly reject the calls for tax harmonization, the welcome of the euro and the demand that the member states deregulate the postal services market, which is a public service that should be regulated primarily by the member states. finally, we agree that the legal situation regarding services of general interest is unclear. however, we have chosen to vote against amendment no 12/rev by the ppe-de and amendment no 4 by the pse, because the consequences of the wording of these amendments in the long term will be to hand over more power to the ec court of justice. we have therefore voted against the final vote on the report.
in writing. i have voted against the report, although it contains some positive elements. in addition to the nuclear energy texts which i cannot support, the report criticises excise duties and minimum harmonization in the consumer sector, which could have negative consequences for swedish alcohol policy and consumer protection in the long run. i welcome the review but would have liked to see stronger wording on social clauses and believe that the report is not as balanced as it should have been.
for the ind/dem group. - mr. talman, i'm not going to tell you. as shadow rapporteur, i would like to thank mr foglietta for his excellent cooperation. the report describes in detail the measures that the eu should take to reduce alcohol-related harm in the member states. however, criminal justice is a national issue, not an eu issue. we should not have any opinion on what penalties member states impose for drunk driving or how long the driving licence can be withdrawn for that type of offence. criminal justice is a strictly national area and should remain so. the commission also proposes to launch information campaigns at eu level, despite the de facto recognition that each member state has its own specific drinking culture. each country knows best how to prevent alcohol-related harm, based on its own social experience, traditions and resources. the exchange of information is positive, but the initiative must come from the member states, not from brussels. the introduction of a european prize is another way of increasing the eu's influence on these issues. what we need is to review cooperation where the eu has competence, for example through the internal market. the environment committee is trying to get in here and finger national issues. i therefore urge everyone to point fingers at the committee on these matters. and as far as the limit of one-percent-per-mile is concerned, you are just as dangerous if you are a young driver, an old driver, or a professional driver if you have been drinking and are in traffic.
i would like to thank the commission for its strategy. it starts an important and necessary debate on alcohol in europe, although it lacks many of the concrete measures i would have liked to see. alcohol is not a common product. it has side effects on health and therefore the internal market must take health into account. it doesn't mean no alcohol. that means a balanced policy of warning labelling, with a reasonable policy for the introduction and advertising of alcohol. no one is discussing new eu competences here, only a better use of them. is a warning label and a time limit on television advertising too much to ask? is it too much to ask, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity, to recommend zero tolerance for alcohol in traffic, which saves many lives? many seem to believe that only young people, pregnant women, professional drivers, and addicts can have problems with alcohol. it's wrong. total freedom of trade in alcohol is not liberal. it takes away people's freedom. and unnecessarily raising health care costs. it reduces the freedom to feel safe in traffic. it reduces the security of being able to safely walk home from the pub and it reduces the security of children in the home. it is illiberal not to take health into account in alcohol policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the strategy, although i think it is watered down. now there is at last a common document with objectives which can only be developed, i hope. the positive aspect of the strategy is that it shows what methods work to reduce alcohol consumption and thus reduce the harm and tragedy of alcohol. however, if the methods proposed in the report are to be fully exploited in the member states, adjustments are needed in the eu regulatory framework. firstly, the import quotas must be reduced. the attempts of each country to work with restrictive measures are weakened or made impossible when the import of alcohol from other countries is in principle free. in addition, the minimum rates should be increased for reasons of public health. i would also like to see warning labels on alcohol, just as we have on tobacco. i therefore urge you to vote against amendments which weaken that text.
in writing. the junilist has on several occasions in this house raised strong political objections to the reports coming from the committee on agriculture and rural development. the report on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products (a6-0283/2007) is another report from the committee, which insists on the continued protection of heavy subsidies to all the different groups in the agricultural sector and on continued protectionism against the outside world.
madam president, terrorism is a threat to all states and to all peoples: it poses a serious menace to our security, to the values of our democratic societies and to the rights and the freedoms of citizens. obviously, new measures have increased the efficiency in the fight against terrorism, but there is more to do. we need to show that the creative measures really protect citizens and that they are proportionate to the infringement in the personal sphere. i doubt whether the regulation on liquids on aeroplanes is proportionate to its purpose. some innocent people lose important medicines, not to mention the tonnes of confiscated shampoos, lipsticks etc. if this brings full security, it will be accepted, but citizens question how this is being handled – improvements are probably possible. to strike the right balance is to enforce anti-terrorism, the fight against crime, and fundamental rights in a democratic society based on the rule of law. it should include information to the european parliament before any european-us deal is signed, and we have full trust in commissioner frattini and the commission in this respect. to accomplish legitimacy in this field we need increased democratic control through codecision, and european citizens should play a larger part in the decision-making process; we need more transparency and more democratic legitimacy. the council must motivate its measures in public at european level. we also need to improve transatlantic relations. finally, there is a need for tough anti-terror measures. it will be much easier to achieve that if we better accept our own democratic ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the reports on dairy products by the committee on agriculture are mixed. junilista supports the commission in allowing the production and marketing of milk for human consumption which does not fall into any of the three categories currently in force. such liberalisation is good and makes it easier for sweden, which has had problems since 1995 adapting its swedish traditions to the rigid eu rules on dairy products. the other two milk quotas are based on the eu's common agricultural policy and are rejected by junilista. milk production should be a matter for the free market, subject to the usual food controls for public health reasons. the amendment tabled by the committee on agriculture to the report (a6-0283/2007) on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products is utterly absurd. they propose that budgetary savings be redistributed to the milk sector and that a milk fund restructuring programme be set up, that grants be given to those in the milk sector who are exposed to increased market liberalisation, that promotion and advertising measures for milk be strengthened, and that support be given to mountain milk production and to the promotion of the school milk system. we are strongly opposed to these proposals. the junilista group considers it fortunate that the european parliament does not have a vote on eu agricultural policy, as this would lead to a trap of protectionism and heavy subsidies for all the different groups in the agricultural sector.
in writing. there are good reasons for working together to achieve the smooth functioning of transport between member states, with a view to promoting the internal market. we do, however, question several individual points in the report in question. we do not share the view that the common transport policy is underfunded and that the eu should devote additional resources to this area. we question the need for common training standards for transport and logistics personnel, as we have full confidence in the ability of each member state to manage this area satisfactorily. finally, we believe that the member states should decide independently whether or not to allow vehicles with a load capacity of 60 tonnes. in view of the criticisms mentioned above, we have decided to vote against the report in question.
in writing. we have decided to support the report in the final vote. however, we would have liked to see the texts on the labelling of spirits bottles and the risks of alcohol consumption by women during pregnancy to be stronger. it is regrettable that parliament was unable to support the amendments and the paragraphs of the existing text before the plenary that referred to this.
in writing. the junilist has voted against this report and several of the amendments. alcohol policy must be national in nature and therefore not be formulated at eu level. each member state has its own specific drinking culture which its citizens must take as a starting point in their efforts to reduce alcohol harm. international progress in this area, as in almost all others, is being made by countries moving along different paths. by learning from the experience of other countries, each country can then develop its own alcohol strategy in the best possible way. such institutional competition between countries is the explanation for the historical successes of european countries in almost all fields. parliament should not impede this competition by promoting uniformity at eu level.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the financial turmoil of the summer has clearly demonstrated the intimate interconnectedness of markets. the global financial market is literally going on around the clock with millions of transactions that affect us all. the new technology offers completely different conditions. the potential for improving the conditions for development in investment has increased dramatically. the availability of risk capital is vital in this context. and the many new financial instruments that are being questioned by some here today have been generally good, increasing liquidity and investment opportunities. the fact that europe has a strong central bank has been a good thing has been shown in the recent turbulent financial weeks. the ecb was able to act faster than its counterpart in washington and was able to act quickly to calm the markets. for this, the ecb deserves praise. we still don't know how far the us mortgage crisis will spread. the autumn will be decisive as new statistics emerge. i hope that the market will adjust normally without major convulsions, which could affect the regional economy, which is basically healthy within the european union. i hope - contrary to some of my colleagues here, obviously - that we in europe are not overreacting and thinking that the solution is always more regulation and rushing to make decisions, just as commissioner mccreevy said. despite the sarbanes-oxley act, the risky mortgages were not detected in time for the sweeping regulations. a well-functioning financial market requires a balanced approach. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i think that mifid is a good example. as a liberal, i also regard openness and transparency as key words in relation to financial markets. i also call for more cooperation between the eu's financial authorities to respond and be prepared to act in crisis situations. mr president, commissioners, i cannot help but notice in the margin: when it blows across the world, it turns out that a small currency and a small market like the swedish one is affected lightning fast. the events of the summer have given me further reasons for sweden's entry into the euro.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in a world where democracy and human rights are not always taken for granted - not in our neighbourhood and sometimes not even in certain countries that are not members of the eu but are nevertheless part of our europe - the eu's relations with the outside world become even more important. every such relationship, whether it be a meeting, a dialogue or an agreement, is an opportunity for us to raise our values and to make demands on those countries which are not yet living up to the meaning of the words humanity, human rights and democracy. the report we are considering today is basically a good one. it highlights some of the difficulties that arise when dealing with different formulations and approaches to what human rights mean, but i still think that it should have been more critical in our approach to, say, china or russia. it is our duty to be critical of countries which do not respect human rights and are not democratic, but to be critical of countries which also believe themselves to be democracies is a must - not just for our own credibility but for all the people who live in those countries and who do not even have the opportunity to express their criticism. democracy and human rights in the eu are taken for granted and sometimes people think that they have always existed, that they exist now and that they will always exist. but those of us who were born in dictatorships know that democracy and human rights are a daily struggle. so it is not enough to say that human rights work is going on, that there are improvements. there is also, as we often say, much to be done. we must be much clearer and much more concrete in our dialogues, both in our criticisms and in our demands, and we must start calling things by their right names if we are to leave a better world to our children.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i can agree with a lot of what davies says. the fish are dying! when it dies, there will be no income for any fisherman! it is therefore more intelligent to invest in the future by having the maximum sustainable return today, rather than a maximum temporary return, as has been the union's policy so far. it's totally untenable! then you can argue about the scientific flaws of the method and that it may be a clumsy tool, but the eu has low inflation as its overall economic policy objective. it's a very clumsy tool, but it hasn't been criticized in the same way. in such cases, this is a much more effective tool, and i would like to thank the commissioner. you've realized that the policy is completely wrong, completely failed, and now you're trying to get over it. later we will discuss the problem of 'discards' and a combination of measures may begin to correct the problems. but when we talk about socioeconomic analysis, you have to look at the longer term. that is the point of my amendments. because without it, you can say, "well, today's fishermen don't want to do anything!" to put all future generations of fishermen out of work is a poor socioeconomic analysis.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank the rapporteur for the ambitious work he has done. the question we have to ask ourselves is: what is more important in a consumer programme consumer rights or business rights? for me, the choice is obvious. it is to strengthen consumer rights and to make companies responsible for their products. the green paper discusses how a better regulatory framework should increase trade between countries, but the first priority in a consumer regulatory framework must be to strengthen consumer rights, must it not? the main problem facing consumers today is the difficulty of adjudicating a dispute concerning consumer rights between different countries, since there is no body to settle crossborder disputes. but this problem is not addressed at all in the green paper. the eu should primarily develop bodies to resolve such disputes, not create more eu legislation. this approach is also supported by the european consumer organisation buc. the rules in force today are minimum harmonization, i.e. agreeing on a common minimum level that no country can be below. at the same time, it is possible for countries to have more stringent national legislation. to change this to full harmonisation at eu level is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity which so many people, including the commission, claim to defend. the gue/ngl group is opposed to the proposal in the report which seeks to combine minimum legislation with the principle of mutual recognition. mutual recognition is similar to the principle of country of origin. there is a risk that we will see a race to the bottom for consumer rights. companies may be tempted to set up in countries with weak consumer protection. the aim of the green paper is to strengthen the position of consumers on the eu market. but if we are serious about strengthening consumer protection, we must vote for the gue/ngl amendment, which means that the rules of the host country, i.e. the rules of the country where the product is bought, will apply. i regret to say that the report largely puts the interests of industry first and reinforces the liberalisation of the internal market. this is a threat to the standard and level that already exists in many member states. the report introduces the principle of mutual recognition in consumer law. it is against all attempts to improve consumer protection. it is for this reason that i and the gue/ngl group are voting against the report, out of concern for consumer protection.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the review of the consumer legislation and would like to thank my colleague, beatrice patrie, for her very good cooperation. i would also like to thank commissioner kuneva for her work on the green paper. the consumer rules are really involved in all political decisions. eu laws and regulations affect european citizens, and these citizens are consumers. we social democrats in europe are working hard to put consumer protection at the centre of our concerns. a well-functioning internal market is not possible without satisfied and secure consumers. the community legislation is based today on the principle of minimum harmonisation, which is quite natural, since the member states have come a long way in terms of consumer protection, as we have heard today. i think it is important that we simplify and improve the regulatory system, both for consumers and for traders, because it would facilitate cross-border trade and strengthen consumer confidence. however, it is important that the harmonisations that need to be made are carried out with a high level of consumer protection and with caution. we should also decide on a consumer protection guarantee, which means that no consumer should be subject to less protection than before harmonisation. i therefore urge you to vote in favour of amendments nos 4 and 10 by the socialist group. finally, i believe that the purpose of reviewing consumer legislation in the eu must be to strengthen consumer protection, not to strengthen trade between member states. although they go hand in hand, there is a big difference between having consumer protection as the guiding principle and focusing on commercial considerations. we have to put the human before the market.
in writing. we have chosen not to support the report because it seeks to undermine some of the good intentions of the commission to create a more sustainable fishery. eu fisheries must become more ecologically sustainable to protect both the eu's marine environments and the long-term survival of the fishing industry.
in writing. some coordination of consumer policies, such as minimum levels of consumer protection, can stimulate consumers' inclination to buy goods and services from another eu country and thus promote the development of a well-functioning internal market. however, we would like to emphasise that consumers also buy goods from countries and regions outside the eu, such as the usa and asia. the role of the eu institutions in this context should not be exaggerated. it is essential that the union measures taken are proportionate and that the principle of subsidiarity is fully respected in all circumstances. we therefore reject several of the proposals that have been put forward in the past in the european parliament, such as eu-initiated consumer information campaigns, consumer information at eu level (a matter that can be dealt with nationally or through voluntary cooperation between existing authorities in the member states) and eu-funded authorities and institutions. the current european parliament report and the commission's green paper on the review of the consumer acquis are, however, essentially well balanced and create a simpler and more predictable regulatory framework. we have therefore voted in favour of the final vote.
in writing. we welcome the review of the consumer legislation and welcome the fact that it is now intended to address any abuses, gaps or overlapping directives. we see no overall problems with harmonisation which simplifies and benefits europe's consumers and traders as long as it does not mean that we have to lower our own consumer protection levels to a greater extent, which is the result of a long swedish consumer protection tradition. we therefore wanted a consumer protection guarantee and regret that parliament did not share our position.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i think bangladesh has been a country of great hope. religious freedom was eroded, rural women had access to microcredit, and we could see a local economy that was starting to develop. but these good trends have been quickly reversed in a country where terror is rampant. in order, as the government says, to fight corruption, journalists, lawyers, political activists and student activists are imprisoned. i'll tell you what. putting everyone in jail is a bad way to fight corruption, to say the least. we promise to help bangladesh on its way to democracy and there has to be a will from the government. before i close, i would like to mention something that is in the resolution but that many people may not talk about, but that i personally think is important, as i have been very much involved with people in slums. there have been people in the old regime, in the ruling classes, who have been digging up land, but when the government tries to take back this land, millions of poor people, poor farmers and slum people, are being pushed out of their homes, away from the last little shred of hope for survival that they had with a little land. we must also think of these people when we fight for democracy in bangladesh, because they have the fewest votes of all. they have the least power of all.
mr president, churchill once said that the best way to make a task seem difficult is to postpone it, and i think that is one way of describing the energy debate we are having in europe today. in answering mr chichester, who says he thinks ‘green’ and votes ‘blue’ – well, what is left, maybe, is to act ‘green’ as well. the proposal from the commission and the decisions we have in place on 20% of the total energy consumption in europe by 2020 being derived from renewable sources is, indeed, very good. it is also nice for everyone – for all voters, industry and citizens in europe – to see that parliament, thanks to ms thomsen’s work on this report, is also very decided that this is a good way to work and that this is the way we should do it. is it possible? there are question marks, of course, when people ask questions. i think it is perfectly possible. if we look at what can be done in industry by trigeneration and by using renewables, it is perfectly possible. in households, on heating and cooling, it is also perfectly possible, and in the transport sector also. i am very happy that, in combination with what we have here on renewables, other regulations in place in europe are changed. it is about time we put more ethanol in petrol, and with the new decisions we will at least have half the rate that brazil has. i think it is about time that we discussed whether we put biogas and natural gas as well, which is the best way of boosting the volumes we need. when we do that, we also have the market in place and then the development goes on by itself, step by step. there are some responsibilities, of course. the renewable action plan – both at european level and national levels – has to be good and come into force quickly. the second area i want to point out is taxes. i cannot understand why we tax people out of behaviour that we want them to have when it comes to fuels of different kinds. the third thing is regulation, where we can still do a lot and where we have to do some cleaning also in the european system. finally, i think we are in the midst of an engineering revolution that has the same consequences as when we went from steam to electricity, and now we are going from electricity to smart energy, and this is a very good step on the way.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european sugar industry relies on artificial respiration. the respirator, today's eu, provides millions of euros each year in direct aid and intervention aid to european sugar growers. the eu taxpayers are paying for an age-old system that has outlived itself. the committee's proposals, unfortunately, involve higher costs and slower reforms, which are the exact opposite of the market adjustment that this uncompetitive sector so badly needs. sugar-producing countries outside the eu must have unhindered access to the single market. international trade based on fairer conditions is a way for less developed countries to compete in the global market. the liberalisation of the sugar industry would also benefit european consumers. they do not have to finance an artificial system of support for producers through taxation, and they face lower prices in shops. this would benefit all.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. in the debate on the recall of the toys in question, it has often been argued that the responsibility for the presence of dangerous toys on the market lies with the manufacturer, in this case china. i regret that the discussion has not been more about the responsibility of companies which outsource production to, for example, china, in this case mattel. i do not want to blame this particular company, because there are many companies that outsource production. it's because they want to keep prices as low as possible. you want to increase profits. however, we need to discuss much more about the responsibilities of companies. the aim is to keep costs as low as possible, while companies do not take responsibility for the safety of consumers or the workers who work with these harmful products. we need to put pressure on companies that we as consumers demand safe and secure products. we also demand that products be manufactured in decent work environments without putting workers' health and safety at risk. of course, it is especially tragic when children are the victims of harmful products. we must of course work together to put an end to this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a parent of young children myself, i feel that this question is of the utmost importance. to be honest, i don't always think about the chemicals in a toy or its safety when i buy toys for my children. for me it is so obvious that the toys i buy in sweden, brussels or strasbourg are safe. you may think i'm gullible, but i'm not alone. in connection with a raid on my daughter's barbie box three weeks ago, and taking out both the dog and the cat and the bag, i asked some neighbors back home on my street how they viewed this when they were buying toys. all of them felt that as long as the items were sold in toy shops and were ce marked, they were safe. so our consumers are being lulled into a false sense of security. now it's our responsibility to make sure that security doesn't continue to be a sham. i therefore appeal to the commission to review the toy directive as soon as possible. what could possibly be a higher priority than our children? one of the things we have to do is to make sure that the toys do not contain carcinogens. we must ban all carcinogens and other toxic substances. many of these substances accumulate in the body. children exposed to such substances will carry them in their bodies for the rest of their lives. this responsibility cannot be placed on the parents. we don't have the knowledge. who would buy a toy if they knew it contained carcinogens? we must change and strengthen the ce marking. consumers today believe that ce means that the product is safe, but that requires a well-developed market surveillance and a uniform testing system. we must also ensure that sellers and suppliers of unsafe products are forced to take full responsibility. i also welcome a review of the rapex system. after talking to swedish consumer advisors, i understand that it is a very important tool, and that it is used on a daily basis. however, it is not complete until all eu countries make full use of and contribute to the system. finally, i would like to stress once again that our consumers must come first, because without safe and secure consumers we cannot have a thriving internal market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we buy toys for our children to have fun and stimulate their development. without exception, parents expect society to protect their children, but current legislation allows us to put poison bombs in the hands of our children. verheugen says lead is banned from toys, but the truth is, the law allows 0.7 micrograms of lead intake per day. but the law allows industry to set the standards for how safety is achieved, and then the protection of our children is over. the standard says that the 1985 toxicity data is sufficient the commission's own experts require an update. the standard says that the entire daily intake can be counted from toys the experts say at most 10 percent, which would mean ten times the stringent requirements. the standard assumes that no child swallows more than 8 milligrams of a toy. experts think that's absurd. the standard only tests one toy per category, not every product the experts find this absurd. the commission's own experts consider that protection is a disaster, and this is just the beginning. 34 flavours prohibited in cosmetics are allowed in toys. carcinogens, mutagens, reproductive toxicants that are banned in cosmetics are allowed in toys. in addition, allergens are allowed in toys. for ten years the commission has been aware of the problems. now we want the legislation, a law that protects our children both on paper and in reality. why do the toy industry and governments get the documents but not parliament?
in writing. i voted against the report by gerardo galeote (a6-0318/2007) today. france shall not favour rum producers in its overseas departments by lower taxes than those permitted. the best way to benefit agriculture in less developed countries is to remove tariffs on agricultural products from all countries of the world and to abolish the common agricultural policy (cap). furthermore, excise duties on alcohol are intended to curb alcohol consumption. the harmful effects of alcohol are just as great if the alcohol is produced in guadeloupe or martinique as if it were produced elsewhere.
in writing. the junilist accepts the commission's proposal and the european parliament's amendment, provided that the eu institutions respect the principle that education policy is a national concern. however, the european parliament's committee on culture proposes in amendment no 7 that a reference to the 'charter of fundamental rights of the european union' should also be included. there is no such thing. the eu countries have not established such a statute. such a feature was included in the draft constitutional treaty rejected in the democratic process in the summer of 2005. however, all eu member states have signed the council of europe convention on human rights. this means that all eu citizens can assert their fundamental rights and freedoms in the european court of justice. the eu charter is the opposite of the 'narrower but sharper' eu often spoken of in the subsidarity rhetoric. the eu should deal with crossborder issues, but not with those which are decided by individual member states or which are already regulated by other international treaties. it follows that the draft eu charter of fundamental rights should be rejected, as, of course, should the draft 'new' eu treaty.
in writing. i welcome the possibility of crossborder rail services, but for a market to work, competition must be on equal terms. it is therefore unfortunate that the eu is pushing through legislation which gives countries which have not yet liberalised rail transport the right to compete with operators in a liberalised market for international travel. in practice, this proposal allows state-supported railway undertakings to compete in a market where free competition exists, which in the long term risks putting the market mechanisms at risk. i have therefore voted against this report. state-aided railway undertakings should not be allowed to compete in a market with free competition.
in writing. although the latest proposal does not impose the same stringent requirements on train operators as previous proposals, it still includes far-reaching provisions on everything from how to buy tickets (by telephone, internet and in ticket machines) to the liability of train operators in respect of luggage. it also details the different compensation for delays (reimbursement levels, meal rights, etc.) and the minimum information requirements on the causes of possible delays. i voted against the proposal because operators themselves must be able to develop these services on the basis of the protection that travellers demand (and are prepared to pay for in the form of higher fares). furthermore, the far-reaching regulations are not proportionate to the added value created by replacing existing rules at member state level in those countries which have opted for national legislation.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted against the parliament's report on the common organisation of the market in sugar (a6-0310/2007). in essence, we are in favour of a reform of the sugar sector in the community. we do not, however, consider that parliament's proposal adds anything positive to the commission's proposal. we believe that the proposal risks leading to cost increases in an already too large agricultural sector, something that we swedish social democrats can never support. we also believe that in the long term export subsidies for sugar must be abolished completely. the aid still paid to agriculture shall be paid in the form of direct payments totally decoupled from production.
in writing. the junilists support a comprehensive reform of the eu sugar market with a view to its early liberalisation and to allowing non-eu sugar-producing countries to compete on fair terms. the amendments proposed by the committee on agriculture in these reports can only be described as a further attempt to prevent the reform process as far as possible and thus to continue to pursue a protectionist trade policy. the proposals also imply that the costs of industrial conversion of existing refineries resulting from the reform would increase, while proposing more generous direct compensation to operators in the sugar industry. the junilist can never support a report which is contrary to the objectives of reforming the sugar market in the eu and which would inevitably water down the sugar market and jeopardise its completion. we oppose any attempt to circumvent the commitments made to the acp countries. for the reasons mentioned above, we therefore vote against this report.
i think we can all agree that the worst thing that could happen to nanotechnology is if the products that we release now are poorly controlled and destroy the reputation of nanotechnology in its infancy. i believe that traditional toxicity tests do not safely assess the risks of nanotechnology and i believe that we need to update the toxicity tests required by current legislation. i think we need a label so that consumers can choose for themselves and wonder if the commission is planning such legislation.
mr president, we need to support innovations and research all over europe. that is a crucial task for business life, universities and research institutes, member states and the union. it will require much more funding for research and innovations. that is why i would like to underline what the commissioner stated earlier – that, regarding the eit, the key issue now is the financing and funding. this is because we need to ensure that, not only is the eit funded, but also that it is not funded and getting its finances via money that otherwise would have financed research and innovation in other programmes and projects. i think this cannot be underlined too much, as the funding for the eit must come from other items in the budget than those which today contribute to the efforts of innovations and research in the seventh framework programme, in the cip or other items under the 1a heading. if we can manage to do that, then we can manage to bring additional resources to innovations and research in europe and can contribute to the innovations. from the perspective of my group, i would like to underline that that is the crucial test that the commission has to live up to and we need to contribute to because, if so, we can all contribute to europe with more and better innovations. if we succeed with this, we will succeed with innovations.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – madam president, the cornerstones of the energy policy for the european union are transparency, reciprocity and the rule of law. and, as we have all experienced in the last two years, this is also a vitally important issue when it comes to energy and foreign relations. we already have problems in europe when it comes to security of supply, consumer rights and environmental concerns, and we have to do something about the greenhouse effect. we also have a disturbance on the market that is severe, which neelie kroes’s report showed us very clearly and which puts on the table the need to unbundle, which is also a foreign relations concern. this is a very important aspect of this issue. so we have to rebuild our energy system in europe with regard to production, distribution and consumption. i would like to thank the rapporteur mr saryusz-wolski for very good cooperation. he has taken account of all the texts from the committee on industry, research and energy. what i am not so happy about is what he added with regard to the new solana-like function, to be able to talk with one voice for the european union. this new institution would, as i see it, cause uncertainty of roles, a divide-and-conquer situation, and it takes completely the opposite approach to our cornerstones in our energy policy. we cannot check on reciprocity with an institution like this, transparency is ruled out and the powers of parliament are diminished, which is also completely the opposite of what we want in all other areas. we have therefore asked for a split vote on this topic tomorrow. finally, i want to agree with the commissioner that it is vitally important that we add the energy issue to the new treaty.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a report which is not only very good but also timely. saryusz-wolski has done extremely important work in shifting the focus from energy as a matter of our convenience to energy as a matter of geopolitical importance. the geopolitical and security dimension is something that we who were born behind the iron curtain are always aware of, but that western europe neglected for a long time. this is perhaps the most important contribution the rapporteur has made to this debate. we need to develop a common policy to better protect our common interests in this extremely important strategic area. i am grateful to mrs saryusz-wolski for having the courage to propose this report, which contains a number of important and innovative ideas. we should bear in mind that a secure energy supply is of vital interest to hundreds of millions of europe's citizens. finally, saryusz-wolski is absolutely right when he says that we need to speak with one voice on this issue, precisely because the energy issue is also clearly a security issue. all our experience of foreign and security policy shows that every time we have not spoken with one voice we have lost and our citizens have paid the price. i can therefore only warmly recommend that we support the saryusz-wolski report in its entirety.
mr president, i would like to thank you. migration has been taking place throughout human history. it has been one of the most fundamental drivers of this story. when we take a stand on migration between countries, we are therefore taking a stand on fundamental questions, on existential questions of human freedom. don't people have the right to choose where in the world they want to live? none of this is really up for discussion here. the modern welfare state is incompatible with free immigration and difficult to reconcile with more extensive immigration at all because of the standard differences. immigration to rejuvenate our own population is almost stillborn according to the research. family immigration has very little effect on the demographic structure. it would take 50 to 75 percent of the people in a country to be immigrants if we were to rejuvenate the population of a country like japan. brain drain is a big problem for many developing countries. in fact, it is proposed that other countries be deprived of their educated population altogether. we require a new foundation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for a very good job. i am satisfied that there will be a tougher crackdown on employers and private individuals who employ black people. illegal employment in areas such as domestic work and childcare is mainly the responsibility of women, often with an immigrant background. this affects not only them but also national social security systems, finance and competition. i am also pleased to receive continued support to combat trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, which is dominant. thank you for your support of a halving of the number of victims in ten years to a zero tolerance. however, i am disappointed that i did not receive support from the conservative group in libe in helping women and children break free and start a new life. by voting for amendment no 29, there is now a new chance to support women and children to stay in the eu or to give them support to return. do it for the lives of women after trafficking. i am also pleased that we continue to say no to refugee camps outside the eu. what i want to warn against, however, is economic labour immigration if we do not allow accompanying families, partners and children. it will then be mostly young men who come, which is not good for any society in the eu. we are talking about the borders of the european union. it is important to keep out people involved in human trafficking, crime, drugs, arms trafficking and money laundering, while welcoming people in need of protection into a humane eu. it is the backbone of the eu and cannot be taken away from the eu's common future. migration will be important not only for those of us who live here now, but also for future generations, and we will be able to manage both global prosperity and our own prosperity.
in writing. transparency, reciprocity and the rule of law are cornerstones of european energy policy and consequently in our foreign policy. it is however not the right time to add new institutions and i am therefore against the creation of the new position of a high official of foreign energy policy which also threatens the influence of the european parliament when it comes to foreign energy policy.
in writing. the green party supports and wants a liberal immigration policy. there are many good things in the report that aim at this. i believe, however, that a framework directive in this area will reduce people's opportunities to immigrate, and not the other way around. the proposal also risks reinforcing the brain drain suffered by the developing countries, which is cynically exploited by the eu for its own development. that's why i'm abstaining in the final vote.
in writing. we social democrats want a solidarity-based and humane immigration and refugee policy in the eu which responsibly promotes greater mobility across borders and guarantees protection for all those who need it. however, we do not want a permanent eu-funded border control force. member states are responsible for the exercise of their own border control. joint operations shall be needs-driven and based on requests. that is why we have decided to abstain on the vote on paragraph 37. as regards paragraph 18 on a review of the basic principle of the dublin ii regulation, we believe that a discussion of the principle is justified, but that it should be conducted in a broader context and as part of a discussion of the whole common immigration and refugee policy.
in writing. i am voting against the final vote because i am against frontex and the eu border police, for which it is difficult to claim responsibility. the report advocates the use of expensive and ineffective biometric data in passports and visas, which also threatens privacy. the eu is cynically exploiting the plight of refugees to take power over its borders.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we all know, in our report we have documented 1 245 cases of illegal cia flights, 21 illegal abductions and numerous cases of torture and abuse. we demanded that prison camps like guantanamo should be closed and that the eu should guarantee that such abuses would never be repeated. what have we got? very little, i'm afraid. i'm not sure. the united states continues its abuses in the so-called war on terror. it was depressing to hear the council's response to our important demands. i want to hear a european council say that we should put pressure on the united states, that their kidnappings should stop, and that all the prison camps should be closed. i want an eu and not just us in the european parliament that says it stands up for human rights. i want the eu to say that the fight against terrorism can never be fought by illegitimate means. it is obvious that human rights must be reclaimed every day. let us continue to act as watchdogs and ensure that not one more innocent human being suffers in the so-called fight against terrorism.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague mr lehtinen for a very good job. the internal market for services, following the adoption of the services directive, has clearer rules on how to exercise the freedom to provide services. however, there are no clear rules on the obligations of service providers. this means that even after the services directive has been transposed in all member states in 2009, we can still face an open market in which consumers have no confidence. only 6% of consumers made crossborder online purchases in 2006. the rules for goods are still much more well established. companies, especially smes, also need clearer rules, as they often choose not to provide a service or sell across borders, leading to reduced competition and higher prices for consumers. clear rules give businesses and consumers the courage to cross borders, and to provide and buy services from other countries without fear. we must ensure that consumers can rightly feel safe in the internal market and that, even in cases of dispute, they can easily get help and redress. this requires a combination of many different measures. some examples mentioned in the report are codes of conduct to which service providers can commit themselves, the possibility of bringing crossborder class actions against fraudsters or companies which do not honour their commitments to consumers. it is not reasonable that a consumer is less protected when buying a crossborder service than when buying a product from another member state. the report therefore proposes a broad, horizontal instrument as another important element in the consumer protection we want to build for the provision of crossborder services. as a consumer, you need to know your rights when a service is provided too late or in the wrong way. if these freedoms are complemented by clear obligations for the supplier and strong consumer protection, we can strengthen consumer confidence. once again, our consumers must be put first. without safe and secure consumers, we cannot have a thriving internal market.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you to the rapporteur, mr kauppi, and to all those who have been involved in this work. a big problem that i would like to highlight in the work for gender equality is that too many people today believe that we have equal opportunities. that is true, sometimes, in theory, but we have a long way to go in terms of equal opportunities in practice. this resolution highlights this fact and makes good suggestions as to what can be done and what actually needs to be done now. i have repeatedly called for and highlighted the need for gender-disaggregated statistics in all areas, including in this parliament. only when we see the facts can we change. if we cannot prove the great differences between the sexes, they are forgotten. and you don't realize how big they really are. it is therefore an obvious requirement, which i repeat, that all statistics should be broken down by sex. i would also like to highlight the serious concern of myself and my whole political group regarding the disparity in employment between women and men in terms of paid work; we know that unpaid work is done by women. while we see figures for the increase in the number of jobs for women, we also see the type of jobs involved. the majority of new jobs for women are precarious, insecure parttime and low-wage jobs. we must stop this development.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? it is a bit sad to be standing here and talking about a report on gender equality in the european union in 2007. that shouldn't be necessary. this should be taken for granted, especially since the eu is made up of a majority of women. but unfortunately, the fact is that it is needed. the most important thing is to get the men on the field, to get them to score. otherwise, the game is lost. here are some passes for the men: the rate of women's acquisition must increase. they must be entitled to fulltime and parttime opportunities. the pay gap has to be closed. is it really true that we women in the eu are worth 15 per cent less than men? women must have a greater say in boardrooms, in politics and in business. fathers also need to take on more responsibility for the home and family, to participate in parental leave, not least for the sake of the children. there are many important things that parliament has to ask the commission and the member states to do. let us hope that they will listen and act!
since we are now going to have a gender equality body, i propose that we make the following addition to paragraph 47: with the help of the gender equality body. the paragraph shall then read as follows: calls on the commission to include facts and statistics from the accession and candidate countries with the help of the gender institute;
in writing. the library of copyright-free works is a brilliant idea, far too good for the eu to be fooling around with. that's why i'm abstaining from the vote. good idea (+), the eu will delay it with its bureaucracy (-) = back off.
in writing. the majority in this parliament needs to be reminded regularly that education policy in the european union is a national issue. this report from the european parliament's committee on culture raises a lot of issues for the eu institutions to work with that do not concern them at all. for example, paragraph 12 of the draft report proposes that the european parliament should take the position that more research is needed at community level on pre-school education, particularly in the area of early and targeted measures, in order to find out which practices have the expected effect. the draft paragraph 48 reads as follows: the european parliament considers that a procedure for evaluating the eu education system should be developed in order to make eu action more targeted. the evaluation should be based on regular reports from member states as well as independent verification, with particular attention to the acquisition of basic skills by pupils and the achievement of justice objectives. all this is an attempt to invade the national spheres of competence of the member states. the subsidiarity principle is being flouted as usual and institutional competition in this important area is being undermined. we therefore vote against this report.
in writing. the report contains a number of good ideas on how to reduce exclusion, etc., but then it goes on to talk about whether fees to universities can act as economic incentives! the worst is the focus on efficiency competitiveness and better performance standards. where did creativity go, the ability to critically evaluate, independent thinking? the eu wants obedient production units nurtured for consumption and production. fortunately, the eu does not have the power over education, and it should remain so. i vote against.
in writing. the death penalty is against the most basic of all rights - the right to life! there are therefore no studies to show that the death penalty has a deterrent effect. the death penalty is inhuman, barbaric and totally indefensible and cannot be seen as anything other than an act of revenge. the european union's demand for a ban on the death penalty as a condition for eu membership is therefore a matter of course.
in writing. the junilist believes that a un mandate is what is required for a country or an intergovernmental organisation to send peacekeeping forces to conflict zones. we have no objection in principle to member states joining forces and sending troops on peacekeeping missions, provided that the operation is under the un flag and not under the eu flag. it is regrettable, however, that the current situation in chad and the central african republic is being used as a pretext for the eu's ambitions to create a military power at union level. foreign and security policy is and must remain a strictly national matter.
in writing. the services directive is unclear, cumbersome and leaves the power to implement it in the hands of the court of justice, which is irrevocable. we now have a report which explicitly says: no new legislation in the field of services. it's good and it stops further damage. the proposal also provides for the possibility for consumers to bring a class action across borders and for some regulation of the liability of companies. this is why i am voting yes, despite calls for new 'initiatives', i.e. laws at eu level which are not necessary. i can vote against them when they come...
in writing. we voted in favour of the report by ms buitenweg (a6-0278/2007) on the application of the directive on the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin. we believe that it is important to combat all forms of discrimination in society and therefore welcome the commission's review of the implementation of the directive in question. the review is a valuable tool for evaluating how to improve the fight against discrimination. we are committed to equal treatment and therefore oppose the rapporteur's demand for positive discrimination and strongly oppose the registration and collection of data which are intended to categorize people by racial or ethnic origin. as defenders of the fundamental principles of law in society, we also have doubts about the report's call for reversing the burden of proof.
in writing. sometimes a member of parliament is faced with the difficult choice between the plague and cholera. the vote on this report was a typical example of this. on the one hand, a report on the transposition of legislation which i find to be largely highly doubtful. on the other hand, amendments by the its, which in most cases did not address the weaknesses of the report but were intended to introduce new, rather than worse, arguments. voting for its is hardly doable. that's why i chose to abstain. there is no doubt that discrimination remains a widespread, difficult problem in europe. i do not exclude the possibility that there may be a need to consider how this could be tackled jointly at supranational level. in this particular case, however, we are dealing with legislation which goes very far, based on a legal principle quite foreign to our own. positive discrimination is itself a questionable method, the registration of race a prerequisite for the latter to function unacceptable, both from a moral and privacy perspective. there are also strong grounds for reservations about the reversal of the burden of proof. i am convinced that our case law, which is based on the principle of innocence until conviction, must be defended, however praiseworthy the initial intention may have been.
in writing. the junilist believes that equality between women and men is a fundamental democratic issue that must be given priority in all countries worldwide. the report contains many proposals on how to achieve this equality, among them emphasis on labour market policy measures, women's participation in political life and various forms of education schemes. it is clear, however, that as usual, the aim is to increase the financial resources of the union, its power and even to carry out costly campaigns in the name of the union. the eu institutions are not the right bodies for these kinds of issues. harmonisation often results in regression for the most advanced countries, as the starting point for different countries is very different. gender equality must be an objective for all member states, but the issue must be dealt with at national level. we have voted against this report, because it seeks to extend the powers of the european union at the expense of the sovereign states of the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank you. by supporting the lamassoure report, the european union can take a historic step. this report is a departure from the days when the number of seats in the european parliament was allocated on the basis of the categorisation of different countries into different groups, the negotiating skills of different heads of government and the assumption that the interests of the eu member states were in conflict. if parliament chooses to support the lamassoure report, we will abandon this system and instead move to one based on a principle of proportionality where the size of countries affects the representation in parliament. the system we have had so far has been very difficult to explain, but the system we can have with the lamassoure report can be explained. it is based on a maximum and minimum level and on taking account of the number of people in the different countries. it is a principle that is also sustainable for the future. this means that it is not the interests of one country or another that are favoured, but the number of citizens that counts. it is a step forward in the democratic process of the european union. i want to make it perfectly clear what options we face. it is a question of supporting the lamassoure report's proposals or of going back to the nice agreement with its arbitrariness and negotiations characterised by conflicting national interests. when i hear the latest speakers from the benches up here and their agitation i also hear the national interests that are dealing with conflicts. the lamassoure report deserves support because it is based on a principle.
in writing. the allocation of seats in the european parliament between the member states must not be arbitrary. in the late nights of the nice summit, member states were basically dependent on the alertness of a single man, the head of government or state, during the night hours. for sweden, the result was extremely bad. although we are only about a million behind hungary and the czech republic in population, we got five fewer seats in the european parliament, 19 instead of 24. it is important that we have a principle of allocation of seats that is fixed over time in view of the continuing enlargement of the union. it is also important to establish the principle of an overrepresentation of smaller states according to a degressive distribution. this report proposes improvements compared with the current distribution of seats in the european parliament. that's why we support it. but we are firmly opposed to the idea of creating a constituency across the eu. this would mean that the size of the national delegations would have to be reduced even further. the creation of a special eu constituency is an artificial way of trying to create a european demos. there is no common political arena in europe. the attempt to break through the barriers of language and tradition by creating the european electorate is doomed to failure.
for the gue/ngl group. thank you, madam president! i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a very good job, and also to thank him for his commitment and knowledge in this area, and i would like to say directly that our group fully supports this report. this kind of femicide that we are discussing now has increased, especially in those areas where we have companies investing in factories with lego manufacturing and where women are totally dependent on men, socially, economically, in all areas. the young women employed in these assembly plants are not only at risk of the increased violence but also work under very degrading conditions which reinforce the image of women as inferior beings who can be murdered, tortured, deprived of liberty, etc. i note what the commission has indicated for action, but i would also like to say that i would like to see even tougher and sharper pressure from the eu on these countries. we must show that it is completely unacceptable to sign agreements on respect for human rights while these murders continue. we could freeze trade agreements until we see that the demands we have the right to make are met, until the governments of the countries concerned, for example, put in sufficient resources to find and prosecute the perpetrators. this widespread brutality against women has actually been going on for almost ten years now and instead of decreasing it has actually increased, so it is high time for action. thank you, thank you!
for the ind/dem group. thank you, mr president! i, like my constituents, think that the eu is too closed-minded and bureaucratic. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal, which seeks to increase the transparency of the institutions' expenditure. the agricultural subsidies are questionable. it is therefore important that citizens are allowed to see where their tax money goes and how much. it is regrettable that the committee's amendment goes against the eu's role as a transparent institution. the committee's requirement for registration to access information is a serious invasion of the personal privacy of all citizens, whether farmers, journalists or pre-school teachers. allowing the registration of citizens for the purpose of examining public documents is a development we do not want to see in the eu. i therefore call on all members to vote against the committee's amendments nos 4 and 23. thank you, sir.
the report on airport capacity and ground handling is an own-initiative report with high flying plans for central planning by the eu. so the question is: what kind of society do we want? a market economy or a planned economy? the report notes that europe is facing a sharp increase in airport use and that there is a need to optimise existing resources. notes that the commission has not yet fully explored the possibility of an overall approach to the need for additional capacity; it is about planning future investments and defining strategic hubs. it is believed that it is possible to anticipate the risks of capacity shortages. calls on the commission to start applying a top-down approach; if member states have not taken any significant action in this area before 2008, action should be taken and so on. i do not believe in this overall strategy. i believe that such centrally planned projects are doomed to failure. in the vast majority of cases, there is national competition between countries to meet the needs of aviation. some countries will do well, some countries will fail. the countries that succeed will attract tourism and business. let the countries compare themselves. i also know from my own experience that in a number of countries there are private investors who are building airport capacity and they are guided by investment decisions which are quite different from those of the public authorities. in some cases, it is also a matter of regional decisions. it is impossible to coordinate these three different types of decision, private, public and regional. we should therefore allow the developments to take their course and regulate only the absolutely necessary elements, namely the air traffic control needed to get the systems in order for the air transport within the eu. in my experience, the cost of expanded airport capacity is almost never right. the costs are often three to four times higher than estimated and the projects take twice as long as originally intended. technological progress is also a factor of uncertainty. demand is changing rapidly. suddenly, there are whole new regions that want transport. suddenly, we want new technology with high-speed railways that might make it less interesting to have air connections. let us not therefore believe in a grand strategy. i do not think we should go back to the kind of central planning that existed in the former socialist countries. that is why i will not support this proposal.
in writing. the report by mr chatzimarkaki further strengthens the commission's initiative to increase the legitimacy of community policies by publishing expenditure figures, improving accounting and budgetary control in the agricultural sector, including through a series of amendments. i supported the parts of the report which aimed at increasing the transparency of citizens in the use of funds and the publication of information on beneficiaries. i also supported the requirement that member states should ensure that every year, ex post and via the internet, they publish who received funds from the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european agricultural fund for rural development and the amounts received by each beneficiary from each of these funds. however, i opposed the idea that those who use or view the data should either log in or register, as this would be contrary to the swedish principle of the right to anonymity when accessing such public data. my intention to vote against amendment no 20 in the light of the strong swedish principle of publicity, following a vote wrongly cast on my behalf, has been entered in the minutes.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted for the report. we believe that the principle of degressive proportionality is reasonable and has great potential for support from the eu heads of state or government. the other proposals presented have no realistic prospect of being adopted at the summit. the report gives sweden 20 mandates instead of the 18 we would have under the nice treaty. it is therefore important that the treaty be adopted. otherwise, the treaty of nice will apply, which means that all member states except germany will lose their mandate. the question of how to define the concept of citizen and calculate the demographic base governing the distribution of mandates must be examined. we are very sceptical about national lists for the european parliament elections. if you want to investigate the matter, we can accept that.
in writing. we are firmly opposed to the idea of a european-wide constituency with perhaps 10% of the seats in the european parliament. the creation of a special eu constituency is an artificial way of trying to create a european demos. there is no common political arena in europe with media or debate spanning all member states. each country has its own political agenda. attempts to break through linguistic and traditional barriers by creating eu parties, which are entirely dependent on eu contributions, are doomed to failure. it should be recalled that 54.4% of voters stayed at home in the 2004 european parliament elections. the socialist party is the largest party in the european parliament elections. there is no enthusiasm for elections to the european parliament in the new member states either. in slovakia, 16.96% took part in 2004. with the possible enlargement of the eu to include countries such as ukraine and turkey, the current member states will have their delegations reduced. this affected the smaller groups and reduced political diversity. regional and minority parties will have no place in the european parliament. both the christian democrats/conservatives (ppe-de) and the socialists (pse) seem to have a hidden agenda of trying to create a two-party system in the european parliament. we are voting in favour of the report, not because it is excellent, but because it is an improvement.
in writing. the importance of the question should not be overestimated. a new distribution of members among the member states will not change the current development of the eu. the majority of market liberals and federalists in parliament will be retained. but the report expresses clear principles for a distribution which, by its very nature, will nevertheless be approximate in the end. the distribution will also be better than the present situation, where the largest country gets fewer members while the smallest get more. that is why i voted in favour of the report, even though there are some paragraphs which i do not support, not least the text on the national lists and the european political parties.
in writing. sweden should hold a referendum on the new constitution to get the same exemption and an opt-in clause (like the uk). with such an opt-in clause, sweden, for example, has the right to decide for itself whether and, if so, when to adopt the euro and join the social charter. this does not mean, however, that i do not want a clear document which is the basis of the eu and which clearly defines the scope of the eu's powers. such a document must include rules on the distribution of seats in parliament. i am therefore prepared to support the part of the proposal for a new eu constitution which relates to the distribution of seats. in fact, if the proposal for the distribution of mandates does not conform to the proposal for a new eu foundation, there is a great risk that we will have to go back to the treaty of nice. the treaty of nice means that sweden only has 18 seats, two fewer than under the proposed new eu constitution and two fewer than sweden is entitled to in view of the size of the eu member states.
in writing. the junilists believe that human rights must be upheld in all societies around the world, both in eu member states and in other countries. the report is a proposal for a resolution calling on the member states and the states concerned to work towards the upholding of women's rights. this is a heartfelt question, but the forum in which it is being discussed is not the right one. as usual, paragraphs are included where the eu wishes to act with a united foreign policy voice. with the report's proposals for new budget lines, campaigns and increased powers, the eu is seeking to usurp more power and is using issues such as these as a means in this quest. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. however, the eu is not supposed to pursue a united foreign policy and that is why we have voted against this report.
in writing. the report by anne jenssen deals with a problem which is very much transnational. in other words, it was not the lack of european relevance that finally decided me to vote against most of the amendments and to finally abstain on the report as a whole. the main problem with the report was that it was too detailed in its final version. i find it difficult to see the need for a 'master plan' at eu level on how ground services at airports are to be organised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without getting into the substance of the location of, say, bromma airport, i concluded that this must reasonably be a position taken by stockholm and sweden. not for the european parliament.
in writing. the own-initiative report on airport capacity contains high-flying plans of what can be achieved by central planning on the part of the eu. the report notes that europe is facing a sharp increase in airport use and that there is a need to 'optimize' existing resources. it is claimed that future developments show the need for intervention at eu level to help 'eu citizens and take responsibility for the eu economy as a whole'. the infrastructure relating to the airport is even being examined. in the vast majority of cases, there is national competition and between countries and airports and strategic decisions have to be taken at national level. in some countries, airports are privately owned and investment decisions are guided by profitability assessments, while in others they are publicly owned. the idea of european planning in this area is therefore totally unrealistic. we do not know the future demand and it is constantly changing and constantly shifting between different regions and countries. nor can we say how technological developments are likely to affect development. we don't know what the cost of that is either. moreover, all cost estimates tend to be 2-3 times higher than estimated for infrastructure. similarly, the issue of groundhandling services should be a matter for each specific airport and not be regulated at eu level. the report is based on a planned economy. i cannot support this report which is most reminiscent of the systems we could find in the old socialist countries and have therefore voted against.
thank you, mr president. i would like to raise the issue of the decision of the turkish parliament to allow the turkish military to enter the only reasonably calm region of iraq. it now looks as if we will be able to include these events in our discussion on wednesday of the general report. i hope that everyone will have the chance to participate in that process and to table amendments, because this is a major threat to peace in the region. this shows the problems of the military pushing and getting decisions through. now we have to make sure that the government resists, that there are no troops and that no one is provoked into bringing military forces into iraq. if there's one thing they have too much of, it's military. if there's anything they're lacking, it's normal human discussion, and that's what we're going to support. thank you, sir.
madam president, i would like to thank you. time is short, and i am speaking mainly to express my support for the co-rapporteur of the breyer report in the ppe-de group, hennicot-schoepges. i find it very unfortunate that the majority of my group has chosen to depart from the hennicot-schoepge advice on several important points, and thus not to support important proposals in the report. i agree, of course, that the 48-hour information requirement before spraying is impractical and would not work, but to conclude from this that we do not need any information requirement at all is not reasonable. the hennicot-schoepge proposal, as a compromise, is well balanced here. another important issue concerns the exclusion criteria for particularly sensitive substances. first of all, of course, we must be consistent in our decision with the decisions taken by parliament in relation to the new reach legislation. one of the starting points was the phasing out of substances where it is difficult to establish thresholds for the risks of this type of high level concern substances. of course, we have to follow that line here too, especially as we deal with substances that come in close proximity or risk coming in close proximity to things that we are going to eat. another issue on which i support the rapporteur, mr breyer, is the zoning proposal. i was surprised to see that the commission's proposal was to divide europe into zones which are relatively similar in terms of vegetation, climate, etc. but the proposed division is unfortunately too arbitrary. i cannot support this approach and believe that the member states must retain the right to say no to various preparations even if neighbouring countries give the green light. i'd like to take up some more questions, but time is running out.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a report which is very much characterized by the compromise between the ppe-de and alde. i think that, on the whole, it is a balanced report. the responsibility of member states for tax policy is established, while there are a number of taxes which would benefit from more eu coordination. the rapporteur's original proposal envisaged a comprehensive coordination with a strong emphasis on higher levels of redistribution - that cannot be the way to make europe grow and create new jobs. in the globalised world we live in, europe does not need higher taxes. rather, i think that those of us who live in high-tax countries should study other models, for example, a flatter tax. in general, the tax should be reduced on labour and increased on harmful consumption. for example, targeted environmental taxes should be introduced, as well as reasonable excise duties on, for example, alcohol and tobacco, as the commissioner points out. the eu must be able to act more coherently in this area. this is a politically sensitive issue - we have heard it here and i know it - but equally in my view necessary. if we are to solve the major climate and energy challenges we face, it would be irresponsible for us to exclude governing fiscal instruments. it is indeed possible to achieve high growth, with high environmental and energy costs, and at the same time to reduce the overall tax burden. those of you who doubt this may study the policy of the bourgeois government in my home country of sweden, if it is allowed to be a little patriotic at the end of the debate.
it's going to be a mixed message today. i think the most bizarre feature today was heaton harris' attack on voluntary movements trying to influence parliament. the big thing that has happened is that parliament's position has been weakened by a massive lobbying of lobbyists paid by industrial interests who put the interest of selling more pesticides ahead of the interest of protecting public health and consumers. fortunately, they didn't make it all the way. we still have the pesticide passport which gives consumers a reasonable opportunity to see what they are getting by asking their traders. this is an important protection and we must fight for it when we negotiate with the council. however, parliament did not protect the residents in the way that the committee on the environment wanted. they have less protection and less information than the committee wanted. this must be corrected at second reading. i believe that we cannot continue to allow the most dangerous chemicals at the current level. parliament now avoided adopting a general reduction target for all pesticides, which was unfortunate. i would say, however, that we in the green group have now passed a report which can be used for good negotiation with the council, but where the title is a bit silly. just as it is remarkable that parliament should rename pesticides to plant protection products, so it is remarkable that parliament should rename the constitution to a reform treaty. if that were the case for all plant protection products, we might as well put hedges in the legislation because they protect against deer. it shows how absurd pesticides are as a term.
for the ind/dem group. thank you, mr president! the budgetary questions have been handled very competently by mr virrankoski and mr itälä. i have great respect for their work, within the framework. but that's the problem, they have to work within the framework. the eu budget process is deeply outdated and therefore subject to criticism. the starting point is always this: more money is coming in, what are we going to put it on? this is a 50-year-old organization, which is why it should be zero-budget. we have to ask ourselves: if we started today (and not 50 years ago), what would we put our budgetary resources into? should we invest them in the creation of the economic and social committee or the committee of the regions? would we spend the other half on a protectionist agricultural policy, on publicity and marketing for products that would otherwise not sell? would we be betting on subsidies for tobacco production, production of tobacco which cannot be sold in the normal way, while we are basically banning smoking in the eu? would we put money into structural funds, which take up almost the entire remainder of the budget, and thereby decide that countries can get money centrally from the eu budget, provided they go to a certain type of regional policy? the answer is -- and i'm sure that everyone in this room, not many, would say, no, we wouldn't do that. so the question is, how do we approach this? we cannot do that unless we are prepared to tackle the fundamental budgetary issues from the start and then work on them. we're in the wrong place. if you do a standard economic analysis and think about what should be done with budget money at eu level that is spent via brussels, it is allocating money that the national states would otherwise not be able to invest, for example in basic research. we all know from economic theory that basic research is totally under-supplied in the market. you get free passengers all the time. it is assumed that someone else is paying for the basic research and that once it is done, it is available to all of us. there are many such areas, and incredibly little money goes there. we talk about it, but we do nothing. the money goes to things that were usually decided 30 or 50 years ago. this is the closest thing to a scandal. we also have an eu that buys up buildings, all over europe, thinking that this is cheaper. it's an irresponsible gamble, speculating with taxpayers' money. this shouldn't continue. we need to get into a debate about what the eu should do with the money we take in. the right thing to do is take maybe 10 to 15 percent of all the money. the rest goes to unreasonable things, and to various kinds of public relations activities, such as money for adaptation to globalization. it is the competition between nation states for good institutional solutions that has created europe and its success. let's keep this. thank you so much!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. many people are now wondering why parliament is calling for an audit of the longterm budget. can we really not cope with new needs such as galileo, the european institute of technology, the eu's actions in kosovo and palestine and at the same time make cuts in the budget? the problem is that the budgetary ceilings apply to the whole budget, but they also apply to each budget category. in order to avoid, for example, galileo leading to cuts in other research programmes, we are calling for this so-called small revision. but note: within the overall ceilings. we would rather have the surpluses in the agricultural budget, that is the point. as regards palestine and the costs of eu action in kosovo, we want to use the so-called flexibility instrument. otherwise we'd have to take money from africa or latin america, and that would be unreasonable. the eu's rigid budget model needs to change. but i want to be clear, i don't want to crack the overall framework, just achieve greater flexibility within the framework to deal with new needs. how else will we be able to respond in the future to the requirements of climate and energy policy, for example? i would like to mention two other things. firstly, the debate on the treaty shows the importance of increased resources and long-term thinking in the eu's efforts to promote communication, dialogue and democratic development. i have subsequently tried to make some adjustments to the committee on budgets' quota in this area. i hope we've all gotten on board with a more offensive approach. secondly, i would like to mention the pilot project which i myself initiated. this concerns support for the rebuilding of cultural and religious institutions and memorials in conflict-affected areas. the proposal is primarily aimed at the western balkans, but in the long term the lessons learnt there should also be applied to other areas where destroyed museums, demolished churches and mosques may constitute a source of conflict management which the eu can help to eliminate. it could be, for example, areas such as palestine, afghanistan, iraq and perhaps even tibet. in that area i appeal to the members for their understanding and support. thank you, thank you!
thank you, mr president. the adoption of the budget each year is one of the most important tasks for us as members of the european parliament. it is one of the few occasions on which we have the opportunity to send a really clear and coherent signal about the kind of europe we want to see here in parliament. in general, i am pleased that more and more of my colleagues in this house seem to see the importance of keeping the eu funds in check, but much remains to be done. i think it is important that we prioritise the budget correctly, but the work of monitoring the money and its use is just as important as budgeting it for the right purpose. if we do that today, i think unfortunately in many areas we see that some of our money is doing almost more harm than good. in addition, the institutions must develop eu accounting systems to make it easier to understand and follow the money, so that it can be seen both before and after it has actually been spent. it's a matter of transparency. i myself would like the eu budget for 2008 to signal more clearly an eu that puts priorities, an eu that focuses on its core task - to create free movement of goods, services, people and capital. but unfortunately, in this year's draft budget there is much more to be desired in that respect. let me give just a few brief examples: subsidies for silkworm farms, beekeeping, cotton farms, energy crops, figs, hemp, nuts, olive groves, rice farms and tobacco. export refunds on cereals, sugar and wine products. the total budgetary lines are over eur 1 858 436 000. apart from the fact that the budget lines are, in my view, an incredible waste of european taxpayers' money, they do more harm than good. they affect people outside the union. the most serious example, i believe, is the eu's support for agricultural exports, whereby the eu subsidises its own agricultural sector and thereby dumps goods and prices on the markets of poor countries. it is a serious obstacle to the natural competitive advantages of poor countries and a serious obstacle to their path to prosperity. we have to do something about this, not in 2013 but next year. thank you, thank you!
for the gue/ngl group. thank you very much! 650,000 people die from smoking every year, and 80,000 die from secondhand smoke every year, in the eu alone. these black figures alone give us a clear picture of the need to do everything we can to combat smoking. karl-heinz florenz has put forward a series of good measures, such as tightening up existing legislation, deterrent labelling on cigarette packs, measures to prevent young people from starting to smoke, measures to help smokers who want to quit their addiction and, in general, measures to support the member states in the fight against smoking. that's good! but i am opposed to shifting more power to the eu in the area of public health, especially when the member states are already doing good work. the smoking ban in the pub is a good example. at least ten eu countries already have some form of smoking ban in restaurants and pubs. it started with ireland in 2004 and quickly spread to sweden, italy, finland, malta, belgium, etc. and many more are on the way. should we now stop this process of good examples and wait for the introduction of central eu legislation? no, i do not think so, but let the good examples continue to spread. i note that florenz says in his opinion that he wants to call on all member states to introduce general smoking bans. that is good, because i interpret that as meaning that we do not have to go around the european commission and, moreover, run the risk of this being lobbied off by the tobacco industry lobbyists. in conclusion, by the way, is there not a risk that we bring in one hand and give in the other? on the one hand, we are calling on people to stop smoking, and on the other hand, the eu continues to subsidise tobacco farming by over eur 1 billion a year. that is 1 000 million euros a year. these subsidies must of course be abolished. hurry up!
karl-heinz, congratulations on your 60th birthday! i'm glad to see you're in the same full vigor now as the younger karl-heinz. the best gift the ppe-de group could give karl-heinz would be to allow him to withdraw the weakening of his own report which he has put forward. i think it is important to mention the additions in the report. we have long called for legislation, for harmful additives to be removed and it is a scandal that there is such bad information. we are therefore now waiting for a rapid proposal from the commission to get rid of these terrible additives that make cigarettes even worse. we all have an inherent right to be smoke-free in the workplace, just as children have an inherent right to be smoke-free in their playgrounds. parliament is quite right to call on the member states to tackle this problem. if you take the kids to the stairwell of our own army outside the restaurant, they stink of smoke for half an hour afterwards. i would also like to add a dimension that has been lost in the debate. any credible tobacco policy must involve the elimination of all subsidies and we must ensure that our companies do not destroy the work by massive marketing in developing countries. thank you, sir.
thank you so much! i would like to begin by saying that i am fundamentally sceptical about the idea of the eu banning smoking in public places throughout the union. even those who are in favour of this type of smoking ban must see the problem with us doing so at eu level. after all, decisions like these are controversial. if the citizens feel that they are coming from brussels, that someone other than those directly concerned is making these decisions, i think that resistance will increase. however, there are things we can do here in the eu to reduce the harm caused by tobacco smoke throughout europe. we can, for example, abolish the eu's incomprehensible ban on swedish snus. i will again, with the stubbornness of a fool, seize the opportunity and point to the swedish experience. we have the lowest smoking rate in all of europe, we have the lowest rate of all tobacco-related diseases in all of europe, and you know what? we are, however, about the same as the rest of europe in tobacco consumption, but we are using snuff instead of cigarettes. in fact, if the rest of europe replaced cigarettes with snus to the same extent as we have done in sweden, 200,000 europeans would be spared from oral cancer every year. that's why i think it's immoral to continue to turn a blind eye. unfortunately, the commission seems to be reasoning exactly the opposite. today the commission ordered åland to pay almost sek 20 million in fines for not having prohibited snus effectively enough. this is despite the fact that snus is a traditional product in åland, where it has also replaced cigarettes and saved lives. the commission does this and has the audacity to claim that it is well-intentioned and that it is concerned about the health of the people of the islands. but i've talked to them, and they're paying their dues. the commission therefore has no doubt that smoking will increase in åland. i know, however, that there are still colleagues in this house who are sceptical and who do not really believe that it can be that simple, that the statistics are not really as clear as i say. i would urge you to come to my meeting, at least on one point, and vote in favour of jules maatens' proposal to evaluate the health effects of snus. let's put the facts on the table, a scientific basis for further debate. i am convinced that this will be the first step towards lifting the indefensible eu ban on snus. thank you very much, mr president.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. if i understand correctly, the council will read the statement before the vote, otherwise it will not be binding. i would ask you to exclude the word 'poor developing countries'. it lacks all the relevance and meaning of previous agreements. there are developing countries and there are least developed countries, and parliament wants both these groups of countries to be able to make use of these mechanisms. it's obvious we're speaking the same language here. there's something i'm wondering about your speech, mendelsohn: you said that the acp countries should not worry, but then you also said poor developing countries, acp countries. i hope that we do not confine the conversation to them, and that your letter to thailand does not set the framework for this, but that we are quite clear that developing countries which are not among the poorest also have a great need to be able to protect public health in order to develop effectively and that we give them the help and support we can give. i hope we're in agreement there.
mr president, the basis for agreement with the council on this report was a statement made by the commission which was supposed to be read out yesterday during the debate. however, that statement was not read out. if the council would agree to attach it to the minutes or give it some kind of legal status and transparency, then that would help further the process on this issue.
in writing. we firmly reject the report's proposal that oral questions should be read only in the original language of the full text of the outcome of the negotiations. in the european parliament, they try to make a big deal of the speakers speaking to the whole of europe as spokesmen for their european groups, but at the same time they are therefore to deny access to what they are saying afterwards and limit accessibility by cutting down on translations into different languages. if we want a democratically functioning eu, we must be prepared to pay for it. an organisation that spends over £100 billion on protectionist agricultural policies must be able to pay £100 million to show respect for the citizens of the eu. however, if translation costs are deemed insurmountable in the future, the minimum requirement is that the full minutes of the hearing should contain the speaker's original language and a translation into english.
in writing. we do not oppose the suggested temporary solution in order to guarantee the existence of a network for sis 1+ for the period from 13 november to 17 december 2008. however, we cannot support the use of the passerelle in article 67(2), indent 2, of the ec treaty as suggested by mr coelho. that is why we have chosen to vote against the report.
in writing. we have voted against the report because we do not think it is balanced and, in particular, avoids addressing important problems with nuclear energy. we also do not believe that the union's energy research funds should be used to develop new generations of nuclear fission reactors. we are questioning the environmental value of synthetic fuels produced from fossil sources or hydrogen produced from energy of the same origin or nuclear fuel, as none of these energy sources are sustainable in the long term from an environmental or supply point of view. we also believe that fossil fuels should be actively phased out in the long term, which is not covered in the report. we believe that carbon capture can be an important part of reducing carbon emissions, but other energy-saving, efficiency measures and the development of renewable energy are more sustainable in the long term and should be the ultimate goal.
in writing. i have chosen to support the report because the eu has discussed in an unusually balanced way the need to include nuclear energy in the future energy mix in europe. the report states, inter alia, that 'in order to meet basic needs, nuclear energy cannot be abandoned in europe in the medium term' and 'that nuclear power is currently the largest low-carbon energy source in europe and emphasises its potential role in climate protection'. nuclear power currently accounts for one third of the eu's electricity supply and will continue to be one of the most important sources of energy in many eu member states. when the issue of co2 emissions is brought up, it is unfortunate in my view that nuclear energy is not given greater attention. if we are to meet the energy needs of the future without increasing dependence on fossil fuels and rising co2 emissions, the development of new and safe nuclear power will be crucial. unfortunately, nuclear power is not included as part of the measures considered realistic to reach the target of between 20 and 30 per cent by 2020.
in writing. we have voted in favour of the davies report on a strategy to reduce co2 emissions from cars (a6-0343/07). to reduce co2 emissions, the priority is to reduce the share of co2 from road transport. finding more environmentally friendly alternatives to the use of cars is important. but we believe that car manufacturers should be given the opportunity to choose how they want to meet the environmental targets that we politicians set. legislation should not regulate in detail how this should be done. we also oppose the rapporteur's regulation of advertising which is unjustified and restricts freedom of expression.
in writing. we swedish social democrats believe that tax policy should be a national concern. the report also stresses the fiscal sovereignty of the member states. we chose to vote in favour of this report because it emphasises in many ways the role of tax policy in the member states for employment, welfare and the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. the junilists take a strong stand against this report, which aims to bring about a common tax and customs policy for the eu. it is surprising that the european parliament is taking decisions on this day on matters where there is no common policy. deciding on tax matters and promptly appealing to the member states for the harmonization of their national taxes is not for the eu. furthermore, attempts to approximate the introduction of a community tax are completely unreasonable. the report also shows how the lisbon strategy opens the door to the eu to tackle new policy areas, with supranationality, new projects and increased costs in its wake. the junilist group votes against this report, since taxation is a matter for national sovereignty.
in writing. i have today voted in favour of the report on the contribution of tax policy to the lisbon process. i am in favour of sound tax competition and a common consolidated corporate tax base for international companies, without harmonisation of tax levels, and with the possibility for each member state to opt out if it so wishes. it is also important to establish the sovereignty of the member states in the field of taxation. i am very much opposed to any attempt to go against an eu tax.
thank you, madam president. in december, the first summit between the african union and the eu in several years will take place. it is an important meeting for the eu, which has a great responsibility to support the economic and democratic development of africa. the portuguese presidency deserves praise for this initiative. the eu must become more active on the african continent. what concerns me, unlike brian crowley, is that zimbabwe's dictator robert mugabe is likely to be present at this summit. sitting at the same table as mugabe is not worthy of the european union. mugabe's misrule and corruption are paralyzing the entire country. the political opposition is harassed and jailed, free speech is non-existent, food shortages are rife in this country, once the breadbasket of africa, and hundreds of thousands of people are homeless. the economy is falling apart, inflation is over 7,000 percent, the median age is the lowest in the world, and 25 percent of the population is hiv-positive. madam president, commissioner, manuel lobo antunes, one way of showing our disgust with mugabe's dictatorial ways is that the eu does not accept mugabe's presence at the summit. mugabe's terrible rule must be stopped. dictatorships, my friends, are about clarity. thank you, thank you!
thank you, madam president. i also speak on behalf of my colleague raul romeva. he is from spain, i am from sweden, and both countries produce these terrible weapons, and both countries have promised to ban them. but what about my own country? in the oslo negotiations, sweden argued that we should have a limited use instead of a ban. that is an outrageous attitude. no civilized country can defend these cruel weapons, and i welcome the great unity that exists between the council, the commission and parliament here today for a total ban. these weapons are harmful, they are a weapon against innocent children, they are an effective weapon against human rights and economic development. so we have to be very effective in our fight to ban them. so this is the beginning. let's finish the process as quickly as possible, because every minute another child dies. thank you, sir.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i should like to begin by thanking mr marco cappato for an interesting report. i'm on the libe committee, responsible for the long-term budget for the drug program. we are trying to be concrete in our work on how we in the eu are to reduce harmful use and supply. that is why i think the debate on afghanistan is central, because that is where the majority of the heroin (93%) that kills our young people in the streets comes from. if opium production for medicinal purposes can be used to bring about a change in the control and production of some farmers under the supervision of the eu and the un, then let us say yes to a project. it comes from me, who comes from sweden with a very powerful anti-drug and drug policy. unfortunately, i do not think that is enough, but we must of course also look at other possibilities, such as energy production. but farmers need jobs and livelihoods, and that is why we in the european parliament must take responsibility and demand more action. 40% of gdp, we're going to replace it, take responsibility for it! as regards paragraph 1 (a) to the council not to use disinfection to eradicate the pollinators, i have a different view. i think we also have to look into it, to break the deadlock we are in now where nothing is happening. finally, a word on overproduction. that does not mean that there is no more need for painkillers for the world's poorest, for women and children. they use very little painkillers compared to us in the eu. so let us look globally and find constructive solutions in the eu and the un with afghanistan, for peace and democracy, against terrorism and drugs. thank you, thank you!
thank you, madam president. the ombudsman's criticism of the lack of transparency is a necessary and much needed criticism. i also welcome the parliament's proposal that the ombudsman should investigate the practical impact of the critical remarks made against the commission, among others. it is true that parliament is often unanimous in its criticism of other institutions, but there are indeed good reasons for parliament to be self-critical. the ombudsman has recently requested parliament to disclose information on the remuneration of members for travel and staff, but parliament has refused to disclose the information, claiming that this would be in breach of data protection law. i think that this is just putting out the blinds, and i have the support of the european data protection supervisor in saying that. staff remuneration is, of course, a public document. it is time for parliament to clear the slate on the issue of compensation. only the person who hires staff with slave contracts and other strange contracts has anything to fear from more publicity. it is not possible that any member here is afraid of not being re-elected in 2009 if it comes out in the media how employees are treated in certain cases, let me say in certain cases. thank you, thank you!
in writing. we are opposing a continued expansion of the eu budget, which today is already too extensive, with a large part of the funds going to the wrong ends. today there seem to be a reciprocal action between new objectives for the union and demands on financing by the eu. this means new demands on payments from the member states, but also that new funds are being transferred to a system which is bureaucratic, inefficient and complex. today there is also too large a focus on industrial agriculture and foreign policy and military projects, and not enough on the environment and social projects. however, there are many desirable initiatives being financed via the budget, and we support reasonable changes to existing means. we did choose to support the specific amendment 945, since it covers, among other things, aid to palestine, even though there were other aspects of the amendment of which we do not approve.
in writing. i have chosen to vote as much as possible in favour of the council's draft budget for 2008 and therefore against all the increases in expenditure proposed by the european parliament. it is extremely unfortunate that parliament wants to finance galileo from the community budget. if it turns out that private operators are leaving because of profitability problems, the eu should take the consequences and shut down the project or let interested member states in, as it did with boeing. i have also been involved in the question of the abolition of subsidies for tobacco growers and support for wine production, but i can only regret that parliament is not ready to support these proposals.
in writing. today we swedish social democrats voted on the eu budget for 2008. we consider the proposal as a good compromise and, although we lost on some points, we support the whole proposal. we voted for a reduction in agricultural export subsidies, but we think it is unreasonable to vote for a total and immediate abolition of subsidies. we also voted against continuing to support tobacco growers and against limiting the number of parliamentary sessions in strasbourg. in the case of daphne (protecting children, women and young people from violence), we voted for an increase in the appropriation up to the commission's proposal. we were prepared to vote for more money, but we were not given the chance to do so because of that amendment which never came to a vote. in the resolution to virrankoski (a6-0397/2007) we swedish social democrats voted against an amendment which, among other things, called on the commission to ensure that no farmer receives more than eur 50 000 in direct support from the eu per year. this is an ongoing discussion, so we agree with the spirit of the proposal, but do not think it appropriate to fix either an exact amount or specific conditions at this stage.
in writing. we swedish social democrats in the european parliament voted in favour of the report. the deal is a step in the right direction. the impact of the agreement on fish stocks and the livelihoods of the local population is being monitored more closely. it is now important to monitor the effects of the agreement closely. we voted against amendment no 7. we fully support the intention to promote the sustainable development of fisheries, which is also the aim of the new fisheries agreement. the agreement shall also not have adverse effects on the fisheries and the population of madagascar. however, we cannot support the immediate termination of the agreement if it has negative consequences. we believe that the joint committee to be set up to monitor the agreement is a better solution to ensure that the agreement is respected and that it benefits both parties and the environment. the agreements shall be renegotiated if it is shown that this has adverse consequences. we are in favour of a greater share of the costs being financed by the european vessels benefiting from the agreements. however, we believe that the objective must be that the whole agreement should be self-financing.
in writing. we, the swedish social democrats in the european parliament, voted in favour of the report. the deal is a step in the right direction. the impact of the agreement on fish stocks and the livelihoods of the local population is being monitored more closely. it is now important to monitor the effects of the agreement closely. we voted against amendment no 8. we fully support the intention to promote sustainable development in fisheries, which is also the aim of the new fisheries agreement. the agreement must also not have adverse effects on the fisheries and the population of mozambique. however, we cannot support the immediate termination of the agreement if it has negative consequences. we believe that the joint committee to be set up to monitor the agreement is a better solution to ensure that the agreement is respected and that it benefits both parties and the environment. the agreements shall be renegotiated if they are found to have adverse effects. we are in favour of a greater share of the costs being financed by the european vessels benefiting from the agreements. however, we believe that the objective must be that the whole agreement should be self-financing.
in writing. we, the swedish social democrats, have decided to abstain on resolution rc b6-400/2007 following the question for oral answer b6-0321/2007 on increased feed and food prices, as we believe that the resolution contains several doubts about the economic situation of farmers in the eu. the increase in cereal and food prices will benefit farmers and could provide greater opportunities for restructuring the eu agricultural sector. furthermore, agriculture, like other sectors, has to cope with certain changes in demand. however, we share the resolution's view on biofuels, the large price increases for foodstuffs at the distribution level and the uncertainty of the world food supply.
in writing. we swedish social democrats supported the report, which is good. a partnership between the eu and africa is needed to meet the challenges of the future. we voted for paragraph 61 because we are in favour of free trade. however, we would like to point out that we cannot create growth through free trade if we do not simultaneously invest in education, health and other long-term investments, as is also reflected in other parts of the report.
in writing. it is clear that sexual and reproductive health is a matter of paramount importance. the welfare of women and children should therefore not be exploited by the european parliament in its attempt to extend its powers, as in paragraph 77 of the report. moreover, there is already a competent and legitimate un body working on these issues. given the unpleasant currents in this house, where many members are actively opposing sexual and reproductive health, both within and outside the union, it would be very tragic if the european parliament were given more power in this matter.
in writing. we swedish social democrats supported the report, which is good. however, we voted against amendment no 1 which mentioned the use of multiple bombs in two specific conflicts. we voted against it because we condemn the use of multiple bombs in all conflicts and not just in individual cases.
in writing. there is no doubt that multiple-barreled bombs are very cruel weapons systems that cause great suffering to civilian populations. it is therefore regrettable that the european parliament should use such an important issue in its efforts to hasten the creation of a united states of europe. a ban on these weapons must be implemented at global level, through the un and at the initiative of nation states, not the european parliament. that is why we voted against this resolution in today's vote.
writer. thank you, mr president! i must first of all say with a heavy heart that month after month we in this parliament have to take a stand on various resolutions because so much of our world does not respect civil liberties and rights and violates basic human rights. i have to say this because i think it's so terrible that it just goes on and on. we are talking about this in this parliament, we are talking about this in so many contexts, and yet it continues. as regards pakistan, as in the resolution we are now discussing, i would like to say that the gue/ngl group supports the resolution as a whole. the resolution makes a large number of very legitimate demands on the government of pakistan. we in the outside world cannot stand by and watch the military regime's influence and domination over all areas of society. power must be transferred to a civilian democratic government. we must support all ngos, all those who work for democratic freedoms and rights. i would like to stress the importance of paragraph 16 of this resolution. parliament expressed its deep concern at the fact that a large proportion of pakistani women are unable to participate in the democratic process. people are oppressed in pakistan by the military regime because of religion, but we must not forget the oppression of a large proportion of pakistani women. our group would like to give our full support to the resolution. thank you, thank you!
for the verts/ale group. first, our thoughts are with the sons, brothers and loved ones who are now missing after the brutal attack on the amis force. these people died trying to help their fellow man in a neighboring country. there are many victims of violence, rape, murder and economic misery here. how many times have we not stood here and talked about this, how many times have we not demanded that the government and others take action? let me remind you that the central task of any government is to protect the human rights of its civilian population. this is something this government has never tried or even tried in its entire career. but our frustration must continue with patience, because only with long-term financial and political support for those who are trying to resolve the conflict can we do this. we must not forget our own economic interests. sometimes it's our own oil companies that actually support certain groups, indirectly or directly. we must also address this. a heavy responsibility falls on the government and we must continue to make demands. i fully agree with my colleague raül romeva that the international criminal court must have full access and full powers of investigation so that people can someday experience justice in this stricken country. thank you, thank you!
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. this report on the role of sport in education sets out in detail how member states should organise the subject of sport in schools. it is yet another example of how eu politicians and officials go into all areas and all levels of detail in their eagerness to centralize political power here. subsidiarity is celebrated in the party talk but never respected in the political practice. this is a record breaker in ridiculous detail. let me give you a few examples. paragraph 10 states that member states are to be encouraged to make sport compulsory in primary and secondary schools and that at least three sports lessons per week are to be guaranteed. paragraph 24 refers to the importance of offering gender-blended sports lessons for pre-school and primary school children. this is how it's done. it is a shameless and ridiculous attempt to advance the eu's positions in an area which is for the european people to decide.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. climate change is a transboundary environmental problem and the eu is a key player in global climate action. emissions are rising globally and time is running out. the swedish junilist therefore supports the main points of the proposal which is being debated tonight. the integration of aviation into the eu emissions trading system is a self-evident and cost-effective step in climate action. but it is not trade itself that leads to emissions reductions, but the overall emission ceiling that we choose to set. the system must be broadened to include additional climate-impacted sectors to achieve the climate goals we have committed to. we are in favour of the committee's proposal for a uniform date for the directive to enter into force. it is unacceptable that the commission has been influenced by international political pressure to delay climate action and distort competition. moreover, the directive applies to everyone. we cannot allow exceptions for particular persons or events. our heads of state must pay their expenses, as do the rest of us. anything else would be unreasonable. finally, i would point out that common environmental objectives should not be used as a means of introducing a common tax policy. the revenue from the action will not be transferred to the eu as proposed in amendment no 14. each member state must be free to decide how it wants to use the proceeds from the sale of its emission allowances.
the airline has to pay for its environmental costs, and that's why this proposal is good. air transport cannot be exempted from environmental costs paid by other modes of transport. but i have a hard time with the air-hunting hysteria that is so much in the air, as if it were the biggest environmental problem and the best thing for us to do is to stop flying altogether. because it's simply not true. air travel accounts for five percent of carbon dioxide emissions. a full plane uses less fuel per passenger-kilometer than a car. it can and must be even better, but this is by putting tough demands on the aviation industry, which is driving the development forward. not by stopping flying. traveling and meeting people from other parts of the world is important. i am convinced that ryanair has done more for the understanding between the peoples of europe than all the eu cultural projects put together. reduced travel must therefore not become an intrinsic value. isolating people takes us back in time, to a dark time. the commission's proposal is in the right direction, but its perspective is cynical. that someone else should fly less. that attempts have been made to exclude the air travel of heads of government and state, while demanding that citizens take responsibility. proposals like these create a well-deserved contempt for politicians, and i am glad that we in the committee on the environment have removed those very words. equally cynical is the demand by some of our colleagues on the left that we cut air travel by more than half in just a few years. those who make such proposals are hardly taking the train from stockholm to brussels, for example. like your own travels are priceless but other people's travels are unimportant. with this kind of frivolous proposal, it's the ordinary people who are forced to pay, not politicians and business leaders, where someone else takes the credit. there will be students who can no longer afford to study abroad to go out and see the world. there will be grandmothers in norrland who won't be allowed to see their grandchildren in the big city as often. it takes us back to a time when an sas cabin, in the '80s, was just business executives, politicians and union thugs. instead, tomorrow we will vote for tough but realistic demands on the airline industry, which will force them to pay for their environmental costs. it is a question of forcing forward better and more environmentally friendly aviation technology, but above all of making it possible to prioritise. to take the plane against the real carbon sinks, like coal-fired power plants. because the important thing is that emissions are reduced not flight.
in writing. with all due respect to the substance of the matter, we would point out that the european union could have done without this report. this european parliament should be concerned with matters of a narrower scope and not with everything between heaven and earth. the european parliament's committee on culture and education should be abolished as it deals with matters outside the scope of eu cooperation. the committee mainly produces reports proposing that the union should intervene and regulate the areas of detail for which the eu has no competence. in the current eu cooperation, the member states are exclusively responsible for the organisation of education. cultural matters are also a matter for the member states and the union currently has very limited cooperation on cultural programmes. for these reasons, the european parliament's committee on culture and education has no reason to exist.
in writing. we do not consider that the amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries add anything positive to the commission's resolution, but rather a step backwards. we cannot accept any reduction in transparency, which is what the report de facto implies.
in writing. we, the swedish social democrats, decided to abstain in the final vote (a6-415/2007). the reason for this is that the report addresses a number of important aspects of sport in education but at the same time issues which are and should remain a national concern. we voted against the texts in paragraphs 10, 24 and 47. we share the view that school sport is important and that volunteering is an important part of the sport movement in europe. whether you should have 2, 3 or 4 hours of exercise a week is not something the eu should interfere with. of course, it is also important that gender equality is an integral part of the curriculum and that sports teachers are trained in the subject. we also share the view that mixed-gender sports lessons are a good idea, but this is not an eu issue either. we would like to stress, however, that we share the report's view that sport is important for several reasons. on the one hand, it can make an important contribution to countering adverse health trends such as obesity. furthermore, by its educational nature, it can contribute to social added value for society at large.
in writing. many positive objectives in the report such as work on public health, anti-discrimination and accessibility for disabled people, but despite this there are too many calls and demands for detailed regulations which should not be made at eu level, and i therefore abstain in the final vote.
in writing. few question the importance of school-age children having sports instruction in school. the negative trend of unhealthy lifestyles among youths seems to be intensifying from year to year. the schmitt report therefore deals with an urgent and important subject. the problem with the report, particularly with regard to the specific points which were voted on, is that mr schmitt goes too far. it is difficult to see why the eu should be the one to regulate in detail the number of hours of sport in schools, not only for primary school pupils but also for secondary school pupils. i also see no reason for brussels to regulate sports education in detail, with requirements for mixed-gender groups and special training for the gendered. the last paragraph, which seeks to establish a 'special reward system' for different types of voluntary activity, is particularly remarkable. it is not that the spirits of europe do not deserve appreciation. it is because it is difficult to see how such a system would be designed, administered and financed. the report is undoubtedly well-intentioned. the current design, however, was very doubtful. that's why i voted no.
in writing. we swedish social democrats have chosen to support parliament's report as a first step towards reducing the climate impact of aviation. we regret, however, that a majority of this parliament is in favour of both high emission ceilings and the auctioning of a small proportion of the emission allowances. the entry into force of the directive has also been brought forward by one year from the date decided by parliament's committee on the environment. in the long term, we would prefer to see aviation have its own emissions trading system.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank the rapporteur for a well-balanced report on a very important subject. few things are more important to our union than being able to act with force when war breaks out or when natural disasters strike. the eu has the will and the means, but more is needed. let me touch on two sensitive points. firstly, in my view, it is reasonable in some cases to use military action to protect humanitarian operations. in darfur, we need immediate arms protection to guarantee the humanitarian efforts. here, the first thing to do is to look at the outcome - saving lives. secondly, aid can be used to promote democratic development. here too we must look at the result. let me give you a concrete example that the commissioner is familiar with. in eritrea, a swedish journalist has been imprisoned for more than six years, simply for exercising his freedom of expression. today, thirty swedish editors-in-chief are demanding that a link be made between swedish aid and the imprisonment of david isaak, as his name is. i'm inclined to agree with them. eritrea should know that the will to provide aid can also be lost if democratic principles are so flagrantly abused as in eritrea today.
madam president, commissioner, the portuguese presidency! i prefer to look at the opportunities of globalisation rather than the problems, but that depends on how we act in europe. i am in favour of investing in research and development, of making more long-term investments in good environmental conditions and of investing in people and lifelong learning, but what the commission forgets - the mistake in the commission document - is that it forgets the social dimension. the trend in europe today is one of good growth and more jobs, but also greater exclusion, greater disparities and more precarious jobs, more jobs - not least in germany - that are not viable but require social benefits to supplement their wages. we must link growth and employment with a social dimension that reduces the gaps in europe between people and regions. this was the subject of the debate in guimarães, which i attended during the meeting of the ministers for employment. the portuguese presidency is trying to push the issue of the integrated guidelines and change them and make the social link much clearer and much more integrated. but the commission does not want to. the commission does not intend to change the guidelines. we need to change the policy. in our resolution we agreed that we wanted new guidelines which integrated the social dimension and of course also addressed the issues of security in change and 'flexicurity'. the commission should also take up this matter, so that we can establish a stronger link between growth issues and the social dimension. we must also anchor the lisbon strategy. it is not anchored today at the member state, regional and local level. many people are not familiar with the lisbon strategy, and we must integrate it and get the social partners and civil society to work together to ensure that these issues - the social dimension, growth and employment - are important and are integrated.
in writing. we have chosen to vote in favour of the report even though some eu countries already have fully functioning legislation in the field of soil protection. we supported amendments nos 106, 107, 108 and 110, which read as follows: member states which have already introduced specific national legislation to protect their soil shall be exempted from the obligations laid down in this article, provided that their legislation guarantees at least an equivalent level of protection. although the directive may be seen as excessive in some member states, we are hopeful that it can bring about an improvement in the large number of member states which currently lack a functioning legislation on soil protection. we hope that the member states which have functioning legislation in this area will also work with parliament in the further negotiations to ensure that the directive does not create unnecessary administrative duplication for them once it has entered into force.
in writing. a framework directive on soil protection is not needed. the market situation in the member states is different. the problems addressed by the directive are national in nature and are therefore best dealt with at national level. the necessary soil protection is already regulated by existing eu and national legislation. the proposal only leads to more bureaucracy and more cumbersome rules for the parties involved. detailed rules and calls are typical eu inventions that lead to increased costs and irritation throughout the eu apparatus. in sweden, some of us question the compatibility of the directive with the eu's regulatory work and want the swedish parliament to examine the proposal under the subsidiarity principle. we have therefore chosen, on principle, to reject the proposal as a whole.
in writing. we have voted in favour of the motion as a whole. it is important to introduce and respect international standards in order to protect the financial system against crime and money laundering in general, while ensuring that member states' own measures are not incompatible with the rules of the internal market. however, we find it repugnant that the eu, by frequently using the term 'terrorism', is seeking to extend its power at the expense of its member states. funding terrorism is a modest part of money laundering. the large sums go to other types of well-organized crime.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report because we believe that there is a need to increase knowledge of bzp, which is a new synthetic drug, and to subject the substance to control measures and criminal sanctions. however, we voted against all the proposals aimed at preventing the introduction of control measures and criminal sanctions, which are contrary to the precautionary principle.
in writing. we believe that freedom of the press is an important principle. officials should be able to provide information, obtain information in order to exercise the right to freedom of expression and information, the right to anonymity and a prohibition of investigations, which means that authorities and other public bodies cannot investigate who has disclosed information under the freedom of information, without risk of reprisals.
for the alde group. madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the launch of negotiations on what will be the new kyoto agreement in bali in december is of course of the utmost importance. parliament is preparing itself by this debate and a resolution, and the council has also prepared itself by a resolution. what is still lacking, in my view, is a clearer cooperation between the various eu institutions. the portuguese presidency has a strong responsibility here. the european union must speak with one voice in bali. the commission will be able to make a contribution to the development of the european union's energy policy. they need our support. not just in fine words, but they need money, methodological development and access to new technologies. we need to focus our efforts on different policy areas and aid needs to be changed to be climate-friendly as well. part of the solution also relates to the second point i have been intending to mention in the debate on forests. large areas are being cleared today and we all know what that means for the climate. but it is also a disaster for the people who live in these areas when their livelihood is lost. we need to develop a working method where we pay developing countries and ordinary families to take care of and maintain forest areas. the very idea of sustainable production is of the utmost importance. a pristine forest is good for biodiversity, but a decaying forest releases large amounts of methane gas. what we need is a growing forest where the end product is harvested in such a way that it locks in co2 and other greenhouse gases. bali is going to be a big, difficult, chaotic meeting. the best thing we can do is to prepare ourselves well so that the start of the negotiations is a good one. this debate is an excellent tool, but we must also prepare it together with our friends in a strong transatlantic dialogue as well as dialogue with china and india. we know that 25 states emit 83 per cent of the gases we need to stop and, commissioner and minister, a true friend is a person who asks how you are and also stops to listen to the answer.
we're about to decide how to fight global warming after 2012, when the kyoto protocol expires. we have a very good base. we are calling for reductions of up to 80 percent by 2050, support for developing countries to reduce their emissions, action against the meat industry which accounts for almost a fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions, more flexible patent laws to make it easier to spread green technology, certification of biofuels to avoid them coming into conflict with the food supply and the preservation of the world's forests. all of this is, as i said, great. what is missing and what we must do in the future is to address the ever-growing traffic flows within the eu, the eu subsidies and the fact that the market tends to be supreme when the eu legislates and implements. there are eleven amendments, and most of them i think are good and reinforce the focus of the resolution, namely that it is the rich world that is responsible for climate change and therefore must take the lead in radical reductions. i am concerned about amendment no 7, which calls for the use of nuclear energy to combat the greenhouse effect. we're not going to replace one environmental problem with another.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is almost 15 years since the rio conference signed the climate convention, and yet it is a fact that climate emissions are increasing faster today than ever before. this shows how insufficient international cooperation has been so far. the eu must continue to take a leading role through domestic action, from tougher requirements for the cars of tomorrow to increased support for alternative energy sources. but 'domestic action' is not enough. karl heinz florenz asked what we can offer the rest of the world. that's a good question. i think we can offer three things. firstly, clean, environmentally friendly technologies to all the developing countries in the process of modernization, not least china and india. they have every right to develop, but they don't have to repeat our mistakes. support for technology and knowledge must be a priority in the eu budget. it's a win-win for them, but it's a win-win for us, too. equally important is to take our historic responsibility and provide support for adaptation measures to all the low-income countries that will be hit hard by storms, floods and prolonged droughts. the money allocated to various adaptation funds and the recent initiative of the commission, the 'climate alliance', are not enough. they're ridiculously small. the needs are a hundred times greater. thirdly, as mrs ek stressed, it is important to take account of the role of forests, especially tropical forests. we need to give forest owners an incentive not to cut down the forest but to preserve the forest. climate policy is not going to stand or fall with bali, but a successful outcome in bali will of course increase the chances of reaching a final agreement in 2009. to facilitate this, i assume that the commission and the council will listen to parliament, not least on the need to do much more in terms of technological cooperation, adaptation measures and forestry issues.
for the gue/ngl group. i am not sure that this is the case. this is a good indication of the lack of social security in which too many citizens of the member states are forced to live. the survey also shows the links between poverty, overcrowding, social exclusion and increased ill health and shorter life expectancy. the mapping addresses the importance of the right to housing, work, social security and women's and disability rights. it also shows that gambling, alcohol consumption, drug use and smoking increase social exclusion. it is therefore clear that the member states must address these problems. so far, all is well, but reality is very often different. these are often just words, because the eu, with its various directives and regulations, often prevents the member states from solving the problems by referring to the rules of the internal market and competition. in addition, wine producers and tobacco growers are subsidized. the free movement of goods, for example, prevents sweden from maintaining a restrictive, solidarity-based alcohol policy, which is very important. sweden has a gambling monopoly to restrict gambling, but then the eu threatens with the court. the same double standard applies to the text on legislation on misleading advertising and advertising messages to children, whereas the eu decides on television directives with product placement and advertising to children. it is possible to change the social reality, but then public health and environmental concerns must take precedence over the competition rules of the internal market, and social welfare and security must take precedence over the deregulation of privatisations. gue/ngl votes in favour of the report and we will continue to do everything we can to improve social security for citizens.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to begin by thanking mrs lind for her excellent work and excellent report. i myself was invited to the azores conference where we, the commission and parliament, held a dialogue with civil society on these issues. i would also like to commend the commission for taking these issues seriously in its new communication on social exclusion and for putting forward a recommendation next year which raises these issues. because it's exactly as mr. spidla says: the situation in europe is generally quite good, with increased growth and more jobs. but when we see this, the gaps are also widening. the gaps are widening and poverty is increasing. there are major differences between member states. in some countries the differences are enormous, and i am not talking about new and old member states - there are new member states with small gaps and there are old member states with large gaps. this is something we have to deal with. i think the commission's three-pillar strategy is quite good. in the case of work, work is not enough, because there are also bad jobs that do not provide a livelihood and do not give influence. it must be good jobs that pay good wages. we in the committee looked at the situation with regard to minimum incomes and saw great differences between member states. we need to exchange experience to find best practice. then there are the public services, which must be available to everyone: social services, housing, health care and so on. the methods are the open method of coordination and we shall strengthen it. i would also like to mention before i end my speech that we are voting today on parliament's position on, among other things, the forthcoming integrated guidelines. we must also include the social dimension in the integrated guidelines, so that we link up growth and employment issues with a social dimension, so that we do not see these issues in isolation from each other but as a whole.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european parliament has now voted to update and amend the integrated guidelines. the social dimension is one example. so far the commission has not wanted to hear it. i would like to hear mr spidla's comments on the decision now taken by parliament and whether he will pursue the issue of updated and amended integrated guidelines within the commission.
in writing. schengen cooperation must be open to all member states wishing to join and participate in it. however, it is of the utmost importance that all countries participating in cooperation meet all the requirements already at the time of entry, since cooperation involves a common external border. if there are shortcomings in a country, sweden has no possibility to control border protection. the audits carried out show that there are problems that need to be addressed and it would be reasonable to wait for entry until all requirements have been met.
in writing. the undersigned swedish social democrats in the european parliament wish to make clear in this explanation of vote how we voted on the braghetto report (a6-0408/2007). we think it is very important to establish a recovery plan for tuna. the tuna fishery has long been threatened by overfishing. in the long term, this risks damaging the entire ecosystem of the fisheries concerned. we do not think the commission's resolution is fully sufficient, however, and we voted against it. we voted in favour of committee amendments nos 4 and 6. two amendments which remove two exceptions for tuna fishing which we consider to be questionable. we also supported amendment no 13, which would have meant that we would have adopted a recovery plan worthy of the name. the proposal went much further than the original proposal, which we fully support. the state of tuna stocks remains seriously low and the european union must take greater responsibility for the recovery of tuna stocks.
in writing. the current political climate in pakistan is certainly critical, following the declaration of a state of emergency by the president and the clear violations of human rights committed through imprisonment, violence against peaceful demonstrators and the silencing of the media. we are firmly opposed to this, but we are also opposed to the european parliament making another attempt, through this resolution, to allow the eu to take over the foreign policy of the independent member states. the un is the only body with the competence and authority to apply pressure on behalf of its members in the global community. it is very urgent to restore stability and peace and to restore respect for human rights in pakistan, but this is not a task which the eu should take away from the member states.
in writing. we support the resolution dealing with the upcoming bali conference. the resolution expresses several important points. among other things it clarifies the significant amount of emissions which are emitted from the livestock sector. it also emphasises the importance of relevant support to developing countries in their prevention and mitigation work to limit the negative effects of climate change. however, we do not support the proposal that nuclear energy should be seen as a tool which is necessary to prevent climate change.
in writing. environmental issues are transboundary and therefore the un climate conferences are an important diplomatic arena for change at the global level. the resolution calls for the eu to bring the member states together under a common banner to push the negotiations of the conference in what the eu considers to be the right direction. the fight against climate change is a good goal for something, but it is regrettable that global environmental policy in the hands of the eu is crossing the border into foreign policy, while dictating to third countries as well as to member states what their national climate policy should look like. the junilista believes that each country should have its own voice at the climate conference and we have therefore chosen to vote against this resolution.
in writing. the junilists are in favour of increased trade and deepening economic relations with ukraine. such a development would benefit both actors in the short and long term. however, it is clear that the underlying aim of this report is not only to develop economic relations but also to pursue a foreign policy on the part of the eu. the tone of the report is clearly commanding and the proposals for cooperation are made almost exclusively on eu terms and with the eu's own interests at the forefront. that is why the junilista has voted against this report.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted for the report. it is important to intensify the fight against poverty and social exclusion in europe. we would like to make our position clear. paragraph 32 speaks of the establishment of a decent minimum wage at member state level. the report clearly states that this should be done with the social partners where appropriate. we therefore believe that the collective agreement model we have chosen in the nordic countries is covered by the text.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. we have been very active in national policy on many of the proposals, such as labour immigration and increased opportunities to combine work and family life. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. for example, we do not think that the european parliament should be involved in treatment programmes in prisons or in the treatment of gambling addiction. the european parliament should not have any say in the way member states choose to run their health care systems, and we reject the claim that deregulation would reduce the quality of care. labour market policy measures such as the introduction of minimum wages should also be left to national decision-making.
in writing. there are many praiseworthy writings on anti-discrimination and the importance of equal treatment in this report which deserve attention. unfortunately, it also contains extremely far-reaching proposals on the introduction of minimum wages, among other things. sweden is against politically determined minimum wages. whatever one thinks of as a reasonable social policy, the eu must accept that member states choose different solutions. this must not be another example of the eu going in and making detailed rules in an area which must be entirely at the level of the member states. moreover, the eu countries are at vastly different levels of development, and the introduction of minimum wages is preventing the poorest countries from catching up.
mr president, vice-president of the commission, council, members and, above all, the citizens of europe! today is a day of celebration, a great day, a day of joy, a very important day, far more important than many people realize right now. this applies both to those who believe in fundamental rights as a principle and to those who believe in the development of europe and the community. it should have been a matter of course for a long, long time that the eu institutions should be bound by the values we all stand for, but that has not been the case. in fact, even the british believe in the rule of law, no matter how it is established. few members of parliament would say that it is fun to help abolish human rights, when the vast majority think just the opposite. it has been a pleasure and an honor to be involved in developing these values, which i am convinced mean so much to us. now everyone knows what this union stands for, even if one does not have the courage to read the whole treaty. these are fine values, these are good values, these are values to which we should all contribute and ensure that this whole union also helps to implement them properly. a warm thanks to jo leinen, to all those involved and, not least, a warm congratulations to the citizens!
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur for a good job. the changes brought about by globalisation bring new and better opportunities for all the countries of the world, but they also bring challenges. europe is at a crossroads. we can choose to welcome the new and flexible economy and its opportunities or to embrace various forms of protectionism. 'flexicurity' is therefore one of the most important tools for creating a labour market which, as the rapporteur says, fully exploits the strength and power of the workforce. education, mobility and employability are keywords. no model is one-size-fits-all, of course, but we can and should learn from each other. we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs point out in our opinion that too rigid protection systems, while protecting those who are in, can make it difficult for others to enter the labour market. the demographic trends in europe are also a problem, as the rapporteur also pointed out. more people need to get to work. 'flexicurity' is therefore a good model for europe to continue to develop positively in a global economy. the example of denmark, which the rapporteur did not mention, illustrates this in my view. mr president, there is one thing we should all be able to agree on in this house, and that is that too many people are out of work today. europe must grow sustainably so that new jobs are created.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner! i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a well-done job and an excellent report. like josé albino silva peneda, i prefer to use the expression 'confidence in change', the change we are facing in the form of globalisation, in the form of demographic change. i think that's a better description. there is a difference between the commission proposal and the parliament's proposal, namely where the focus is on the changes. we have a different focus in parliament's proposal. the commission's focus is on job security versus job security. there is no such contradiction. it is possible to combine a sense of security with a new job and still have a strong sense of job security. we in parliament are trying to focus on participation in the process, strong trade unions and strong social dialogue. we are focusing on active labour market policies, we are focusing on more education and training measures and we are focusing on strong social security systems. many have said that it is not a model but that everyone must start from his starting points. that is where the lisbon process comes in. now that we're getting down to the basics, i want to highlight what stephen hughes said: look at paragraph 15, see what principles should be guiding. finally, i would like to say to mrs schroedter that it is not that the rapporteur has not had any contact with the european trade union movement. there have been close contacts throughout, and they fully support us trying to change the focus. to refrain from having views before the ministers for employment have them would be to give them the final say. parliament must have a line... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. mr president, it is always a pleasure for a mother to see her child grow up to be a bright and lively teenager. that is how i feel about our directive on audiovisual media services without frontiers tonight and it is a feeling of satisfaction and pride that i share with the godmother of the child, our excellent rapporteur, ruth hieronymi. the evidence of the child's intelligence is manifold. mrs hieronymi has just mentioned them: a scope adapted to the audiovisual of the future, because it has been extended to audiovisual media on demand such as vod; the reaffirmation of the principle of the country of establishment, and therefore the anchoring of the freedom of movement of programmes, while adding a procedure for dialogue and intelligent cooperation to prevent or resolve possible conflicts; a balance between respect for consumers and additional freedom for our businesses; strengthening the right to information with the new mechanism on access to short extracts of important events. all these and other developments, in my view, are evidence of an intelligent balance between renewal and respect for values. as proof of the vitality of the child, i would mention the promotion of cultural diversity in the digital environment, the recognition given to new advertising techniques, a legal framework finally secured for product placement, the attention finally paid to access to audiovisual media services for our citizens with visual or acoustic disabilities, the trust placed in industry by providing for the implementation of the directive through self-regulation or co-regulation. i would like to thank parliament for its very positive role in helping me to reach adolescence. this is yet another example of excellent cooperation between the three institutions, which has succeeded in making successful legislation a basic element for the industry and culture of tomorrow. now the child has to leave his parents, take off, become an adult. for a community directive, this means that transposition by the member states takes over. in line with european policy, i hope that this passage will not make the child fatter, which would be all the more paradoxical since in the new directive we are calling on the industry to draw up codes of good conduct on advertising to children which promotes obesity. i therefore hope that the member states will avoid, as far as possible, adding national obligations which are a handicap to their audiovisual industry. i am confident and convinced that the text which will be submitted to your approval tomorrow will bring real legal certainty to the sector, while promoting our social and cultural values. with this legal framework, the union is ahead of the legislation of other continents. i think we can be proud of that. we also help our creative industries. we are helping to finance our films better and to give europeans access to premium content on free television: tonight, with you and thanks to you, i feel that my duty has been fulfilled!
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank our rapporteur for the work he has done on this matter, as well as the commissioner. i would like to say that this is a subject on which there are many different and very strong opinions, but we have nevertheless produced a proposal which we are discussing here tonight which will take european television forward. there are a few things i think are important to stress, amongst others that we are establishing the principle of the law of the country of origin, which means a better and stronger basis for diversity but also for a common european television and - which is important - better conditions for a european film industry, because they are very closely linked. it also means more space for free media to exist across europe's borders. of course, some things could have been even better. i myself would have thought it would have been good if we had more openness about advertising time, but this creates more flexibility. i think that the proposal which has now come back on product placement is also an improvement. we have therefore reason to be satisfied with the steps being taken. let me just say one thing for the future, because this legislation is based very much on the fact that there is a difference between what is called linear and non-linear broadcasting. i think that distinction will play less and less of a role in the future. we can already see today that this difference is not so great and relevant. i think it will be important to monitor developments in this area so that we do not get into a situation where our traditional television media in europe are in a worse situation than those broadcast non-linearly, via the internet and in other contexts, because it can fundamentally damage our long-term prospects in the global perspective. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again and to say that we have made a step forward.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the proposed amendments to the eu's arms directive aim to improve the control of weapons. there will be better labelling and stricter requirements on the trade and manufacture of arms. that is good, and it is particularly good that the committee wants to make this even more clear. this is particularly important in the light of the tragic shooting deaths at jokela school in finland a few weeks ago. the combination of young people on the move, the spread of a culture of violence on the internet and the availability of weapons is unfortunately life-threatening. that is why the important adjustments we are about to make are very important. it is also good that this is a minimum directive. the member states can therefore take the lead and have more progressive legislation. i wish all eu legislation were like that. that would solve a lot of problems. it looks like we can agree on a first treatment. that's good, because it saves us time and resources that we can use for other things, like promoting a more peaceful and child-friendly society.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. hunting is an ancient custom. each member country has its own unique hunting tradition to preserve. today's debate is therefore the culmination of a long process. strong wills have been opposed, discussions have been numerous and shadow rapporteurs have been barred from participating in the tripartite meetings. several of the original proposals could have threatened hunting cultures in the member states. unfortunately, the european firearms pass has not been sufficient as the only necessary document for the temporary use of hunting and competition weapons in another member state. the free movement is impeded by the fact that some member states are allowed to request additional documents. community hunters and marksmen are exposed to more bureaucracy than third country nationals. fortunately, the fees for these permits have been banned. during the process, as shadow rapporteur, i have tried to influence the final report on the occasions when i have been allowed to participate in the meetings. i have worked on two issues in particular, namely against a ban on ordering weapons on the internet and against changes in the possibilities for exemptions for courses for agricultural and sport shooting schools. in a long-distance region, a ban on the purchase of guns online would prevent the availability of guns for hunting purposes. today, we already have a good regulation for internet purchases in sweden, which is accepted by both hunters and authorities. the second question was about the revision of the criteria for the old-age pension, which would affect different types of secondary school programmes. in sweden, hunting education plays an important role in teaching future generations about hunting and wildlife management. now our hunting traditions can live on. from being a cumbersome bureaucratic proposal, the compromise, while not ideal, has now become acceptable.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. madam president, i would like to thank you. it is high time that world trade also took its climate responsibility. since 1990, world trade has exploded. what does that lead to from a climate perspective? yes, of course, to increased transport and increased emissions. for example, is it reasonable for eu livestock farmers to import millions of tonnes of soya from brazil for the european meat industry, or for fish to be caught in norway, shipped on to china for filleting and purification, and then back to europe for preservation? no, of course not! our excellent report gives us the opportunity to take concrete action against this. we demand that transport bears its environmental cost. we want to spread green technology to developing countries by fundamentally changing patent and intellectual property rights, for example. we want to eliminate subsidies for dirty energy production. we want mandatory environmental certification of biofuels and that all trade agreements be analysed from a climate perspective. these are just a few examples from this excellent report. by doing this, we can ensure that world trade becomes part of the solution, not part of the problem.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. for the 13th consecutive year, the court of auditors has thus failed to implement the eu budget. why does this happen? are eu politicians, bureaucrats and citizens notorious cheaters? of course not! the problem is that the eu wants to regulate the conditions in a region of 23 countries and half a billion people. this is what opens the door to cheating, abuse and error. the whole organization needs to be reformed from the ground up. there are two ways to go. firstly, we must move from perverse detailed regulations to systems where poor member states receive their aid without detailed rules on how it is to be used. secondly, we must ensure that the guilty are actually identified. this in turn requires maximum transparency, that whistleblowers are treated as heroes and not traitors, that journalists are welcome to investigate the eu's shenanigans. none of these three requirements is actually met. a recent example is the fate of journalist hans-martin tillack. he discovered fraud in eurostat but was instead accused of a crime by olaf. he lost in the belgian courts and in the ecj, but now he has been acquitted by the european court of justice. the role of the eu in this sad history shows that we have a long way to go if we want to break down its bureaucratic establishment. is there that will? i doubt that.
in writing. the roure report caused a lot of headaches. i am of course in full agreement with the ambition to combat racism and xenophobia on several fronts wherever they arise. there are good reasons to discuss legislation at eu level. ideas, good and bad, move quickly between borders and people. legal protection is, in its own way, deficient in europe. at the same time, there is reason to be cautious when it comes to the harmonisation of criminal law, not least in an area which interferes with the constitutional sphere. sweden has a generous attitude towards freedom of speech, freedom of the press and freedom of religion. parts of europe do not, on the basis of the facts. the council decision, which was negotiated with great difficulty by the german presidency, guarantees a minimum level of protection. the roure report wanted to go further and contained a number of very vague phrases. that is why i voted against the report in the end. of course, freedom of speech cannot be absolute. however, this does not mean that all restrictions must be particularly well justified.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report because we believe that it is important from the point of view of legal certainty and in the light of the developments in both trade and marketing that we have modern common rules for the choice of law in contractual obligations. however, we are not entirely satisfied with the compromise reached and have therefore voted against paragraph 2 of amendment no 77 concerning consumer contracts. we believe that europe needs stronger consumer protection with clear rules for both traders and consumers. the compromise does not, in our view, resolve this satisfactorily. secure, rights-aware and confident consumers buying across borders are essential for europe's economy and prosperity. however, we share the concern expressed by small businesses about the burden placed on e-commerce operators in europe in terms of acquiring knowledge of the different consumer laws in the member states. this is an important question that remains to be resolved.
in writing. we reject further subsidies to political parties at eu level. democracy requires that political parties be built from the bottom up by citizens forming opinions, formulating political programmes, starting parties and winning support in general elections. allowing the political and technocratic establishment to create eu parties from the top down using taxpayers' money is a democratically repugnant idea. the result is that parties become independent of their members but dependent on a political elite. it is therefore totally wrong to increase subsidies to eu parties by providing funds to create political foundations at european level. eu parties are already costing taxpayers over €10 million in the 2007 eu budget, and it is likely that political foundations will receive equal financial contributions. this means that in future the eu taxpayers will have to pay around sek 190 million per year to the eu parties and their affiliated organisations. the funds go to eu parties which are mere brussels desk products, parties which the people have never asked for either as citizens or as taxpayers. it is also morally questionable that the politicians in this house should be so reckless in allocating tax funds to their own organisations while cutting public expenditure in the member states.
in writing. all eu institutions are already bound by international law guaranteeing the protection of human rights. this is clearly shown by the judgment of the court of justice in racke. in addition, all eu countries have ratified the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the convention is binding on all states and is fulfilling its function well. on the contrary, a new text would risk legal uncertainty and the adoption by the court of justice of the european communities in luxembourg of decisions contrary to those already adopted by the european court of human rights in strasbourg. we do not agree with the fact that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, as it is set out in the annex to this report, is given a legally binding character. we believe that it is wrong to give the president the mandate to solemnly proclaim the charter before the new treaty is signed, and we oppose any attempt to publish it in the official journal of the european union before the ratification procedure is successfully completed, if it is ever completed. we call on the member states to open negotiations for the eu's accession to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, so that the eu institutions are also covered by these common human rights.
in writing. we swedish and danish social democrats voted in favour of amendment no 41 in the report. there are problems in the labour market with precarious employment and wages that are not sustainable. this has to be corrected. in some countries this is done through the legal minimum wage. in other countries, these issues are resolved through negotiations between the social partners. in the nordic countries, we have chosen the latter model. we swedish and danish social democrats are in favour of continuing to use our collective agreement model to ensure that employees receive decent wages. as the amendment refers to the objective being implemented through member states' national systems, we consider this to be consistent with the collective agreement model we have chosen to use.
in writing. the respective labour market policies of the member states shall be determined at national level through a broad and democratically-based debate based on research and national experience. the respective labour market policies of the eu countries are to be developed in the context of institutional competition. the fact that we are now fortunately able to discuss the danish flexicurity model is due to the fact that the eu did not introduce a common labour market policy, say, 25 years ago. if that had been the case, some states on the continent, led by germany, would have implemented eu legislation that would have had devastating consequences for employment and growth in europe and would have been harsh if not impossible to change. the new member states would have been forced to adopt this policy as part of the acquis communautaire and thus be forced to start under unreasonable conditions. it is because there is no common policy in this area that we can now compare flexicurity, the nordic model, the anglo-saxon model and the continental model. it's thanks to this institutional competition to find good solutions that we have in the minds of existing solutions to compare. on the basis of the above arguments, we voted against the final vote and against all the amendments which contain comments on the form of labour market policy to be pursued by the member states.
in writing. unfortunately, the concept of flexicurity has now become so firmly entrenched in the debate that it is impossible to avoid it. instead, the battle is over whose definition should prevail. simplified, this means that the conservatives want to emphasise flexibility and the socialists want to emphasise security. fortunately, the report on flexicurity which we voted on today in the european parliament uses the former definition. that is why i was able to support the report, despite a number of less good papers. the removal of the rigidity which prevents young and older workers in particular from entering the labour market must be given top priority if we are to overcome exclusion!
in writing. the first paragraph (a) itself states that there is no legal basis for a european tourism policy. the report then goes on to speak of the important role of tourism in social integration and the importance of increased cooperation to facilitate tourists. it is very much about collecting statistics and joint actions for quality assurance and consumer protection. the importance of preserving, protecting and restoring europe's cultural heritage is also emphasised. calls on the commission to draw up guidelines for the member states to achieve better policy coordination in the development of tourism at national, regional and local level; the european parliament also wants to 'culturally mark' europe's cultural heritage in order to increase support for those parts it considers it wants to preserve (european cultural routes and monuments are mentioned as examples). tourism policy is, in my view and under existing legislation, a national concern. the tourist industry must be developed in competition with the tourist activities of other countries, and each country must be given the opportunity to formulate its own policy. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. we moderates have today succeeded in persuading the european parliament to vote against the introduction of special duties on goods from countries which have not signed the kyoto protocol. we also convinced the european parliament not to support the description of the market economy as the cause of the world's environmental problems. we have therefore voted in favour of the report on trade and climate change. trade is not in itself a threat to the environment - quite the contrary. trade is creating the wealth we need to meet our future environmental challenges. it allows us to use scarce resources more efficiently and to lift people out of poverty, which is the root of most of the world's environmental problems. openness and trade are also the prerequisites for technology transfer, which means that developing countries can today get a better environment faster than we got. transport that does not bear its environmental costs is a major problem. we moderates, however, believe that the position adopted by parliament in today's vote on several proposals to combat and restrict trade is wrong. parliament should instead focus on forcing transport to bear its environmental costs. the concern we all have for the environment must not be used as an excuse for protectionism, because protectionism is a threat to development and therefore a threat to a healthy environment.
in writing. the junilist believes that the eu has an important role to play in the fight to reduce the impact of humanity on the earth's climate. as one of the largest players in world trade, the eu is thus able to influence the environmental impact of production and international transport. however, there are major risks associated with this report. it is clear from the text and from the context that a policy based on these considerations will open the door to the protectionist tendencies that many interest groups and countries in the eu still support. the special interests always try to act as the representatives of the general interest. supporting this report is therefore very risky. in the long run, we could have increased protectionism and thus high costs for the world's poor and for eu consumers. instead, the eu should continue on its path as an example and ally for all countries that want to take responsibility for climate change in the world. the junilista has therefore voted against this report.
in writing. lipietz report on trade and climate change touches on two of the areas where the eu has the most power to influence internationally. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we in the european parliament take a stand on this matter. all the countries of the world need to participate in the international economy through trade. only with trade and economic development can there be a real opportunity to lift people out of poverty and to affect the environment. europe's commitment to the environment and development must continue to be a catalyst for a sustainable economy based on trade, not a barrier to it. i therefore regret that the report voted on today took a line which is not entirely in favour of trade and development. i voted yes, however, with great hesitation, as the most problematic phrases were removed.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking marie-noëlle lienemann for a good framework directive. as a swede living in stockholm on the baltic sea, one of the most polluted seas in the world, i really welcome this directive. forty per cent of sweden's population lives less than five kilometres from the coastline and tourism provides 71,000 jobs in our country, including on our islands. in addition, the fisheries sector provides 4 000 jobs. thanks to the fishing industry, we have the opportunity to eat the fish that is so important to us swedes. a damaged marine environment leads to a reduced quality of life for many people and is not a desirable development. there is a risk that commercial and recreational fishing by boat and by sea and recreational fishing could be lost if we in the eu do not act together, here and now. a common maritime policy is designed to protect and strengthen marine ecosystems and to establish databases of control and knowledge. we in the european parliament have higher ambitions than the commission and i am glad that we have set the target of achieving a good environment by 2017 and not by 2021. i am also pleased that member states will be presenting action programmes for marine environments as early as 2015. thank you commissioner franco frattini for joining us now! as a concerned citizen, i would like to move faster, but if all 27 countries are moving, we can do something and start now. this is one of the best examples of the need for crossborder cooperation. i hope that the baltic sea can become a pilot area, because eight of the nine countries around the baltic sea are members of the eu. we own both the question and the responsibility. it is also important that we who are involved in external environmental policy cooperate with russia on the baltic sea and the marine environment. we have to make decisions on both environmental and energy policy. marine environment in the center now!
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is, of course, totally unacceptable that children should be exposed to toys that pose a risk to their health. in fact, almost everyone thinks that buying ce marked toys in the eu is safe. anything else is unthinkable. but in reality, we buy toys that contain carcinogens and lead against our will. the very idea of these substances being used in toys that children often put in their mouths is unlikely! the safety of children requires immediate action by the commission. the profit interests of manufacturers, suppliers and importers must never take precedence over the health of children. one dangerous toy is one too many!
wine is a drink with ancient traditions, a drink that belongs to european culture. in vino veritas, as the ancient romans noted. but wine is also an alcoholic beverage that is harmful to public health, especially if consumed in abundance. wine is an important source of income in several eu countries and provides jobs and vitality to rural areas. i think wine is a drink that should largely sell itself if it is of good quality. the report's proposals for large and increased marketing efforts are therefore difficult to understand. it cannot be the task of the european taxpayer to bear the cost of allowing european wine growers to sell products that have been out-competed on market terms. on the one hand, the eu is talking about drinking in moderation, on the other hand, the eu wants to sell more wine. this doesn't make sense. the eu wine market certainly needs reform, but let us do it wisely. wine markets look and function differently by tradition, and eu citizens have different requirements and preferences.
in writing. i voted against the report because it concerns the provisions of the common agricultural policy which we want to abolish. the cap needs to be fundamentally reformed and we have been saying for a couple of years now that this debate must start as soon as possible. we believe that the eu should start cutting agricultural aid as early as 2010, after the so-called health check of the long-term budget 2007-2013. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year.
in writing. we voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a directive. we believe that there is a need for common rules for direct aid schemes and that it is positive that we are moving away from a system where aid is linked to production and instead moving towards a system where, for example, rural development, open landscapes and quality are at the centre. we support the commission's proposal for simplifications. a simplified procedure is one way of finding acceptance by the farmers themselves. unlike the committee, we believe that controls are important to legitimize the system in the eyes of the eu taxpayer. however, the checks must be proportionate to their intended purpose. the rules should be designed in such a way that they do not have to lead to misunderstandings.
in writing. the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture to the commission's proposal are both good and very bad. junilista agrees that it is too difficult for individual farmers to understand the content of the various eu directives and regulations in the agricultural field today. simplification is absolutely necessary. but i am opposed to the committee on agriculture's proposal for a directive that unannounced checks are not justified in the system because they would contribute to 'a disproportionate but not unjustified fear'. there must be effective control systems in place when public funds are paid to individuals. we cannot ignore this, which the committee on agriculture of the european parliament for some reason wishes to do. i have therefore voted against the european parliament's resolution on this matter.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to express my appreciation and gratitude to the honourable members and rapporteurs kyösti virrankoski and ville itälä. they have done a very competent and responsible job and have thus also been able to keep the budget down to a level lower than i thought possible from the beginning. but of course they have been forced to work within the limits that were set for them and i would remind you that those limits are unreasonable. first, the revenue side is largely given. about 1% of the gross national income is to go to the eu. but that's not how it's supposed to work under normal circumstances! we should first think about what the eu is going to do, then see how much it will cost and then finally take in that money. you don't take money in first and wonder what to throw it on. it's a total false start and everyone knows it. so let's change that! secondly, we know that at least 75 per cent of the money that the eu spends is spent on completely useless and harmful purposes. so we have an enormous amount of money to spend on useful things. in practice, more than half of this money still goes to agricultural policy and another quarter to a third to what are known as structural funds on the structural side. the eu should not be doing any of this. the eu should develop and monitor regulatory systems for the internal market and for environmental cooperation. this is surprisingly inexpensive. if we move to this in the future, we will be able to reduce the eu fee and still have money for other things that the eu should be doing. in my view, galileo is now being funded. it's a success. we should invest heavily in basic research because then we have an opportunity to develop fusion energy. this is the great task of the eu, not the means to fight forest fires, to adapt structures to globalisation and other propaganda money.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. this report brings to mind alice in wonderland, and madam president, it is irresistible to challenge the interpreters by exclaiming 'curiouser and curiouser!' cried alice. what are we doing? is it really reasonable for the eu to use european taxpayers' money in advertising campaigns to convince the same citizens to buy the goods they have already subsidised? of course not. i'm not going to. one of the eu's objectives in the common agricultural policy is to guarantee fair prices for consumers. but when this is done through taxation rather than through productivity growth, consumers pay the same amount for food anyway, just in a different way. but in addition, the incentives to increase productivity will be diminished. so food is going to be more expensive in the long run because of this agricultural policy. the committee is in favour of restrictions on competition. the report also calls for the introduction of a european system of taxation of goods and services, which would be more effective and more efficient. there is a stench of hidden protectionism about the whole proposal! we have many examples of eu advertising campaigns in the past: in 1997, advertising campaigns for eu-produced cut flowers were launched as imports became cheaper thanks to the abolition of customs duties. the prominent swedish columnist johan hakelius wrote the following in a leading swedish newspaper: when eu citizens all over europe buy the same kind of flowers, of course, cohesion and european harmony grow. tulips are important for peace. in this chamber it may be necessary to point out that this was intended as irony... in 2000, the eu had 450 000 tonnes of olive oil in stock and the eu decided to invest in advertising campaigns in the nordic countries to inform us about the goodness and usefulness of olive oil. in 2007, the european parliament voted on advertising money for the dairy sector to protect this industry from further market liberalisation. the cap is in fact being reformed. it's slow, but it's making some progress. but the rapporteur's proposal takes several steps backwards. they want to replace the reforms that have finally been implemented with increased promotional measures and information campaigns. the rapporteur blames the wto and wants to increase the number of products to receive this support. this is nothing but unfair competition with agricultural producers in non-eu countries. the cap must be abolished in the long term and prices and production must be determined by supply and demand, as in all other areas. through unfortunate decisions in the past, we are trapped in an unreasonable system. all the more important that we're heading in the right direction. unfortunately, the recommendation here is that we go the wrong way. the money that can now be released for the people of europe through tariff reductions, export refunds and national aid cuts must not be wasted by increasing the budget for promotional measures and information campaigns. promotions and advertising of goods and services should be paid for by producers, not by taxpayers. europe is on the wrong track in this area, as in so many others. the eu must be a europe of freedom, where people and businesses fight for the favour of consumers, not protectionists. for the sake of europe, i wish i could feel optimistic, but unfortunately i cannot.
mr president, i shall speak first about kosovo. in the balkans and the caucasus, we see a conflict between european values and nationalist tendencies, between european integration and movements and ideas that are supported by russia. if, in the future, we look back, i am quite sure that we will never regret the efforts we can make today in order to support european integration with all the different means we have, but we might very well, in the future, regret the efforts we have not made. i think it is important to discuss that at the european council at the end of this week. i wish, secondly, to speak about globalisation. i think it is important to remember that it is globalisation that has made europe into a leading world economy and that globalisation is a necessity if we are to be the world’s leading knowledge economy, because we will never be world leaders if we are only the best in europe. we can never achieve results by protectionist measures. in the long term that will undermine the opportunities for jobs and prosperity, but it will not give us the opportunity to be a world-leading economy as well as defending european values. that leads us to the conclusion that it is important that the european council underlines all the efforts that are needed regarding energy legislation, telecom legislation, the internal market, trade and competition. competition is not a fight between different personalities or identities. it is an opportunity for all to participate and to move europe ahead. that is the way we should choose, and that is how we can use the treaty in the absolute best way to respond to the global challenge. that opportunity has been given to us this week and we should use it.
in writing. we cannot legitimise the system of using taxpayers' money to market european agricultural products in third countries. we believe that this should be done with restraint, particularly in developing countries, because it risks harming domestic industry. we believe that the eu must encourage local agriculture in these countries and not break the legs of the farmers. a functioning local production system can provide an opportunity for these countries to develop economically and a path to democratic development.
in writing. we are voting against the report and the commission's proposal for the following reasons: - we had hoped that the reform would save the union's taxpayers money and that the wine industry would be freed from funding under the common agricultural policy. in the long term, we believe that the common tax-financed subsidy of european wine production must end. we believe that it is reprehensible to use taxpayers' money to promote european wines. it is contrary to the parliament's alcohol policy which advocates a restrictive attitude towards the marketing of alcoholic beverages. in this situation, the increase in the use of market measures is the result of an unfortunate double standard. we are also against proposals to use european taxpayers' money to promote wines in third countries. we believe that the marketing of european wines should be done with caution, especially in developing countries, as it risks crowding out domestic industry. the union should not be cutting off the legs of local producers in developing countries, but instead supporting them.
in writing. the amendments to the report on which we have had to take a position in today's vote have been quite absurd. for example, the amount of sugar in different wines must be left to the consumers who buy the goods to decide for themselves. this should not be established in decision-making processes between eu institutions. producers in other parts of the world have succeeded in producing wines that appeal to european consumers while being cheaper than european wines. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. there is no doubt that excellent wines are produced in europe. the question of principle is whether we should allow poorer countries to be excluded in favour of european wine production. it is important to have a global perspective, and therefore also a public health perspective, when discussing wine production. that is not in the report. for these reasons i voted in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal and against the european parliament's report on the subject. wine producers should operate in a free market and not, as is the case today, receive substantial subsidies from the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. everyone has noted that extremism is growing within the eu. i think we should ask ourselves why. why are xenophobia and other extreme views on the rise? i am convinced that exclusion and lack of participation in society is a breeding ground for extremism and xenophobia. the equal value of all human beings is a foundation of a civilized society, and therefore we all need help in countering xenophobic forces that discriminate against people of different ethnic background, sexual orientation, gender or disability. these groups use violence, they use threats. in my own country we have even seen the murder of people who have defended human rights. we are witnessing the murder of young people of different ethnic backgrounds, simply because of their background. this will never have to happen again. we who work for the equality of all men must never be silenced. but we know that's not enough. xenophobic and extremist groups exploit young people in economic and social exclusion to create further fear, anxiety and hatred towards other groups. the fight against extremism must therefore be combined with the building of a just and united society.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking all the parties for the resolution. today, no eu country is free of right-wing extremism, not even my country, sweden. in the last election in 2006, the sweden democrats won two-thirds of the municipalities. one can suspect that their next target is the 2009 european parliament elections and the 2010 swedish parliamentary elections. we need help to make this difficult, just as other countries need help in their own countries to stop the spread of right-wing extremism spreading throughout europe. europe needs democratic parties which invite everyone, not just a few, to their party programmes. in the 2006 elections, the slogan of the swedish social democrats was 'everyone must vote', and this is even more evident in this debate, because the parties and groups we are talking about in their party programmes do not respect the fundamental values of the eu and the equal value of everyone. for me, as a member of the libe committee, the view on asylum and refugee policy is absolutely crucial. the far-right parties are opposed both to a more open europe and to developing the eu. instead, they advocate for nations with closed borders. it is a threat that i feel in sweden and collectively against all of us in the eu. i would like to make one further comment on the resolution. the propaganda that extremist groups spread to children and young people is in the form of white power music. media and communication are the tools that we use, and we do it outside of school, family, civic education and our political values. it is important that we, as the elected representatives of the people, now take the debate. we will do so from today until the european parliament elections in 2009. i welcome the resolution. (applause) i would like to thank you.
member of the commission. madam president, i would first like to warmly thank the economic and monetary affairs committee and, in particular, the rapporteur, mr christian ehler, for supporting the policy set out in our communication. i fully endorse your view that legislative proposals are not appropriate at this stage. some issues can be improved through set regulation without major cost impacts and by working together with the european forum of deposit insurers (efdi). the recent financial turmoil provides evidence that maintaining deposits or confidence is crucial during a financial crisis. as to deposit guarantee schemes, two elements seem to be key – an appropriate coverage level and a short payout delay. if depositors know that their deposit will be covered and if they feel confident that the insured deposits will be reimbursed rapidly, there is no need for them to join any queue outside a bank. the existing directive has proven to be flexible and allows member states to increase coverage according to their own economic situation. member states may take immediate action if their coverage level proves to be inappropriate. the timely payout of insurer deposits can indeed be improved. according to the directive, reimbursements should normally not exceed three months, but this reflects the technology available back in 1994. this is why we have asked the efdi to identify obstacles to a rapid payout. depositors must also be made aware of the protection available to them. the existing information obligations in the directive are applied differently across europe. therefore, we have asked the efdi to identify best practices to improve the dissemination of such information to depositors. with regard to cross-border crisis, i share parliament’s view on the need to have clarity about burden-sharing and the interactions between all involved parties before such a crisis occurs. the ecofin conclusions of 9 october are clear on this point. i have noted the suggestion that the efdi participate in general burden-sharing discussions. let me underline that only very few schemes have powers which go beyond the mere reimbursement of depositors. their funds will also only cover a fraction of the amounts involved in a larger cross-border crisis. therefore, i am unable to support the suggestion to include the efdi in general burden-sharing discussions. the report also stresses the importance of eliminating possible market distortions. as requested, we will examine this matter. however, currently we do not think that the high cost of fully harmonising the present regulatory framework, estimated at between eur 2.5 billion and eur 4.5 billion, would be justified. some level-playing-field issues are already being dealt with. for instance, we need to facilitate topping up, where a branch should be able to offer a level of protection in a host country that is higher than in its home country. however, sometimes, arrangements between schemes in different member states have not worked in practice, and we support the efdi’s efforts to achieve a voluntary model agreement. some member states already adjust the contributions through their schemes according to the individual risk of banks. we would like to assist interested member states, as this would contribute towards a level playing field for banks with similar risk profiles. in conclusion, europe needs deposit guarantee schemes that ensure depositor confidence in a financial crisis. with the envisaged improvements, i am confident that we will come closer to this objective.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for underlining the need for studies and analyses, but also concluding that, if there are distortions on the market, something has to be done in order to achieve a level playing field. i think it is important to conclude this from this debate. if there are distortions, we can have different opinions – if they are there. but if they are there, something needs to be done. we need to do that because i think we all agree that we want more cross-border competition, and we also wish to secure the interests of the consumers. it is relevant to discuss the difference between different systems, because if you have in some member states ex-ante systems and in some member states different ex-post systems, which in reality assumes that the state might bale out banks which cannot pay their customers, then you have a distortion. it is my opinion that, due to the differences in opinion we have, there is a distortion already. the distortion is even more serious if it is also based on the assumption that the state should help banks which are not able to pay their customers. i think a good achievement with this report by mr ehler is that we have achieved that conclusion. i think it is important that the commission respond to that in future actions. we might have differences in opinion about how the state of play is today. but we do agree on the need for action to be taken if the studies to be done show that there are distortions. i would like to thank the rapporteur for that and also ask the commissioner to respond to that with action.
in writing. we support the basic principles of the eu budget for 2008 and want to emphasise that it should give citizens good value for money. the framework set by the financial perspective should be respected and we therefore welcome the fact that the budget will remain within it with a good margin. agricultural aid is one of the areas where there is scope for cuts in favour of objectives more in line with the lisbon ambitions, i.e. that the eu should develop into the world's most economically successful area.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report because it is important to remove the obstacles which currently exist to the recovery of maintenance from a citizen who is resident in a member state other than the one to which he is entitled. in this context, it is particularly important to protect the weaker party in the recovery procedure. however, we oppose the wording of amendments nos 9 and 26, which require the parties to conclude, after independent legal advice, written agreements on jurisdiction and the law of the country to be applied for this to have effect in court. such demands are incompatible with the swedish legal tradition.
writer. madam president, i would like to thank you. i have to say, it feels incredibly sad that the abuse and violence against women never seems to end. this applies both to this resolution and to the following one. i would like to thank all those who have worked to bring this resolution to fruition. it is almost inconceivable that even in 2007, women in saudi arabia are denied all human rights. it is not enough, therefore, that women should be subjected to degrading and abusive acts of gang rape. and then you're supposed to be punished by the authorities, while the perpetrators go free. i think that all of us, both women and men, in the name of solidarity, must do everything we can to ensure that human rights apply to women in saudi arabia as well. we call on the commission and the council, and of course all the member states, to raise these issues in all their contacts with saudi arabia. we have a lot of international conventions and we have statements from the eu in many contexts. sometimes it's frustrating that we talk and talk and this violence goes on and on. thank you to all those who have taken the initiative and worked on this resolution!
writer. madam president, i would like to thank you. the resolution calls for justice and reparation for the hundreds of thousands of women, known as comfort women, who were forced into sexual servitude before and during world war ii. all these humiliated women who have been held in sexual slavery are still waiting for justice and redress. the japanese authorities have certainly done a lot, but as the resolution shows, there is still a great deal for the japanese government and authorities to do to bring justice and redress to the women. the majority of the women forced into this terrible situation were very young. it means that their entire lives have been ruined by these terrible experiences. they have been forced to live their lives with physical and mental illness, isolation, shame, and often in extreme poverty. the failure to bring these women to full justice and redress also means that those who committed these crimes have been granted immunity for their actions. once again, the victims, the women, are being punished, while the perpetrators go free. this resolution is also important because we see what always happens in war and conflict zones, that it is always women who suffer the most. that is why it is important that we raise this issue. we have to try and stop this.
mr president, the negotiations in bali on climate change were a success, but we have to think further. it was a successful first step on the road to copenhagen. the participants from the european union’s different branches did a very good job and the portuguese presidency held it together in a very good way. but i would like to focus on the question marks and the problems we face, and this mainly concerns a couple of topics. firstly, the roadmap. we have to keep track of every meeting on the road to copenhagen. we have to do it in cooperation and fully realising the measures or the tools of the new treaty, and do it because there will be codecision on these issues in the future. that means other working methods and more cooperation between the commission, the council and parliament, and i look forward to this. let me now turn to the problems. we have to engage with the g77 group on forestry, the combination of technology transfer and the fight against poverty and climate change. this could be better prepared than in bali, and it is absolutely necessary to do this. i have here in my hands the full commission lisbon strategic package. it is not only the lisbon treaty but also the lisbon process that we have to merge together and with the work of climate change. i think there is still much to prove if we are to talk the talk and walk the walk and fulfil the promises europe made in bali.
