but where success is suggested here by pushing the central areas aside, that's the climate crisis.
we have so many challenges that we face here every day, like the climate catastrophe.
we've heard a lot about biodiversity.
i would like to take this brief moment to focus on a particular biodiversity issue, the largest ecosystem, which is the dirt under our feet, the soil.
so the disease of the soil is also linked to our own disease in our gut, which is the largest ecosystem among humans.
but i believe that this grand strategy is about more than just sustainability.
in times of climate crisis, the greed of a few cannot destroy the livelihoods of millennia-old cultures.
on the contrary, the implementation of this plan will put millions of jobs at risk without contributing in any significant way to the environment or climate protection.
dear commissioner, our european transport system has to stay affordable, reliable and sustainable.
secondly, for 20 years the average european household has been spending 13% of their monthly available income on mobility, while at the same time better technology reduced our co2 emissions by 25%.
vietnam is also a particularly dynamic country in a very dynamic environment.
this strategy is a historic opportunity to make the cap more sustainable, more climate-friendly, to finally promote the fight against the collapse of ecosystems, to put animal welfare, animal health and soil health at the centre.
i expect the farm-to-fork strategy to provide a holistic approach to sustainable food production.
these include farmers, consumers, the processing industry, food chains, food safety, animal welfare, environmental protection, mandatory climate action including biodiversity conservation and much more along the entire value chain.
it's about a circular economy and reducing food waste as well.
instead of - and this is the crowning - of us dealing with this pandemic in committees, everything is cancelled except for one thing: a hearing on climate action.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
the main problem is that those who do the so-called system-maintenance jobs - mostly women - must receive a sustainable increase in pay.
this money could not only finance the urgently needed emergency aid for the next few years, but also make it possible to make the necessary investments, for example in health care or climate protection.
plastic taxes, carbon taxes and digital taxes are just a few of the many ways this can be done.
we must finally ask the companies that pollute our environment and those that pass their income through the tax authorities to pay.
on the other hand, it is also fatal, especially now, if the commission insists on particularly strict compliance with climate objectives in this area.
this is contrary to the eu's values and image, especially now that the green deal has become the label of the european union and the commission has set the ambitious goal of making europe the first climate-neutral continent.
if the clearing continues in this way, it will harm the environment and the climate in the long term.
the first priority must be the european recovery plan, which includes climate change, and the continuing european response to the pandemic.
only then can we successfully tackle the important issues of the future, such as digitalisation, climate protection and crisis management.
i should like to begin by apologizing to mr buşoi, who is unable to be present today, and therefore i can address this question to the council and the commission on behalf of the committee on the environment.
on 11 march 2019, the commission adopted its communication entitled 'a strategic approach of the european union to medicinal products in the environment'.
in accordance with article 8c of the priority substances directive, this strategic approach should be followed, where appropriate, by proposals for measures to be taken at union and/or member state level to address the potential environmental impact of pharmaceutical substances and thereby reduce discharges, emissions and losses of these substances into water, taking into account public health needs and the cost-effectiveness of the proposed measures.
the communication identifies six areas of action and several specific activities related to possible actions: to increase awareness and promote prudent use of medicines, to support the development of medicines that are less harmful to the environment and to promote more environmentally friendly manufacturing, to improve environmental impact assessment and verification, to reduce waste and improve waste management, to evaluate environmental monitoring and to address other knowledge gaps.
i therefore ask you to allow me to address the questions to the council first: in its conclusions of june 2019, the council invited the commission to assess and identify common actions, including own-initiative actions, to mitigate the environmental impact of medicinal products and to combat the development of antimicrobial resistance and, in this regard, to strengthen the contribution to the health sector.
secondly, what legislative and non-legislative measures does the council intend to support in order to reduce the risk of medicinal products in the environment?
the second question to the commission: there is sufficient evidence that action should be taken rapidly to reduce the risk of medicinal products in the environment.
the two questions: what legislative and non-legislative measures does the commission intend to take to reduce the risk of medicinal products in the environment?
the vast majority of refugees are and will remain in their neighbourhoods, but many - and probably more now that we are starting to see climate refugees in earnest - will be heading towards europe, and we have a legal obligation to treat them properly.
climate action in areas affected by natural disasters, emergency aid for war victims and development aid in low-income countries are working and need to be strengthened, but are far from solving the problem.
the fair digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality will be its main axes.
the climate crisis is ubiquitous, and we face it every day.
we need active, multifunctional forest management in a sustainable way, taking biodiversity into account.
i should like to inform members that due to the partial unavailability of interpreters from ireland because of the travel limitations, there will be no interpretation from and to gaelic guaranteed today from 16.15 until 17.15.
i have to say, madam president, the european climate law is the first big and important step towards climate neutrality.
we need to move from the goals now to really bold implementation steps so that we're going to achieve climate neutrality.
we need a smart carbon offsetting mechanism to prevent us from just shifting emissions to other countries, because ultimately we're going to have to protect the climate globally.
we need to include road transport and buildings immediately in emissions trading so that it also becomes a powerful tool, and we need to harness the full potential of technological innovation and also make energy storage a priority if we are to make the energy transition a reality.
i have to say, madam president, when it comes to demands for ever stricter climate targets, the eu institutions, political groups and ngos are outperforming almost on a weekly basis.
climate protection is a top priority for me as a young person, and the eu climate law is an important step.
but if we're going to take climate action seriously, we have to think across continents and involve all continents, because this is a global responsibility.
i do not think it makes much sense to call for climate protection on the one hand and for trade agreements such as mercosur on the other.
we must finally start to rethink free trade, where climate protection plays a decisive role and where there is no danger of cheap imports for farmers or entrepreneurs.
we have no reason to be proud of the fact that we in the eu are wearing a green mask, saying that we are the most climate-friendly continent, but that we are moving all production, whether food or steel, to other continents.
that is not credible and does not contribute to climate protection.
on the climate law, i would say that the co2 reduction targets set therein must be realistic.
what is needed is a solution that will make it possible for the various ethnic groups in the region to live together in a sustainable way.
the european union's environment agency has proved it again yesterday: europe's nature is under threat and biodiversity is still declining drastically.
the green deal, the biodiversity strategy or the farm-to-fork objectives are not contradictory to the eu's agricultural policy, no, they must be a strong part of it, as must animal welfare.
sustainability must be a way of thinking and acting, and farmers must be active partners in this process.
the basic package is now on the table, and the three largest groups in this house have agreed to it, including a strengthening of the environment, ladies and gentlemen.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the community.
in the coming days, ladies and gentlemen, we must support progressive proposals and make further improvements, particularly in the field of environmental and climate protection, while, of course, always keeping in mind the feasibility of the proposals for the farms.
unfortunately, this proposal goes far beyond any sensible objective, particularly in the field of environmental protection.
the new common agricultural policy has three objectives which are equally important to me: climate and environmental protection, of course and naturally.
but we must not forget that sustainable agriculture can only succeed if the money also reaches our farms, the farmers, and our family farms have a fair income.
the new cap must therefore be balanced and must have an equal emphasis on environmental, economic and socioeconomic aspects.
in austria, over 80% of farms are now participating in the voluntary agri-environmental programme öpul in the second pillar, the so-called rural development.
we must put more energy behind it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
we are facing major challenges: climate change, the social divide in our society, fighting the covid virus, rebuilding the economy and society after the covid crisis - and for this we must act together and quickly.
corona and a locust plague, coupled with climate change, are aggravating the overall political situation.
research, innovation, transport, digitisation and energy are at the heart of our budget, because they ensure a competitive future.