madam president, in 1987 the australian rock band midnight oil had a worldwide hit with their song 'beds are burning', a denunciation of ecological disasters and a call for urgent action.
it is therefore the time, if not the time, to make the sustainable development chapter binding on both sides.
let's not forget that while australia ratified the paris agreement, several generations of climate-skeptical political leaders have supported the mining sector, which is the engine of the economy, but also and above all, responsible for the destruction of biodiversity, the denial of aboriginal rights and which has placed australia among the countries with the highest per capita co2 emissions.
it is therefore time for the commission and commissioner hogan, in the context of the current trade negotiations, to do what is announced in the green deal for europe and to put in place ambitious climate and environmental diplomacy also through its trade policy.
more than 51 000 tonnes of so—called e-waste per year, according to the commission estimates.
the environment does not benefit from this.
when what is good for the consumer coincides with what is good for the environment, we need to seize that opportunity.
in conclusion, commissioner, please come forward with a sustainable solution as fast as possible.
madam president, the european green deal is the urgent and necessary response of the eu to climate change.
we need phase-out plans and binding national energy and climate plans.
europe has decided to respond to the climate situation, to climate change, and this is our green deal.
however, these regions will not be the only ones to pay the price of the green deal, and it is therefore right to envisage very concretely, in the light of the forthcoming financial framework, other needs and measures related to both new energy infrastructure, the transformation of sectors such as the automotive sector, as well as the other steel sectors and the like.
i have to say, madam president, mr. vice president, i think we all agree that we need an energy transition, that we need fewer finite resources, that we need more renewable resources, and that we also need less carbon emissions.
we must promote biotechnology, we must promote renewable resources, and we must ensure that this just transition fund does not become a fund for shutdowns, for abandonment, for depopulation, but a fund for new technologies, for the future, for biotechnology and, ultimately, for rural landscapes.
mr president, vice-president timmermans, vice-president dombrovskis, thank you for being here today to present the sustainable investment and fair transition facility.
in greece, the government, through its energy and climate plan, has already announced that it is trying to shut down coal plants by 2023, and yet greece's energy mix will not be coal-based in 2028. is the rate of decarbonisation a factor for eligibility to the just transition fund or not?
jobs that fit them, jobs for industry, jobs for energy.
one of the biggest sufferers of air pollution is the population living in cities and urban areas.
the role of the european union is highlighted not only in promoting peace and security but also as a responsible actor in a deteriorating global environment.
and they complained about the rising emissions.
how can these emissions not go up?
madam president, mobility policies are crucial to the quality of life of people, to the functioning of the economy and to the reduction of human impacts on the environment.
there is no sustainable mobility without a strong commitment to public transport, without the massive shift of users from individual to collective public transport.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner vălean, europe certainly needs to be at the forefront of a transport paradigm that is able to reconcile efficiency and environmental sustainability.
that's the theme of the environmental plaques.
we are fully aware of the climate challenges we face and there is an urgent need to correct the course of community policies quickly and effectively.
we all know that transport is responsible for a quarter of the union's emissions.
madam president, welcome commissioner, efficient, sustainable and clean mobility of people and goods is one of the keys to the competitiveness of our economy.
it is an essential tool in the fight against climate change and guarantees freedom of movement.
equally necessary is the introduction of reduced fares across europe for low-carbon transport such as the train, especially for students, and the fair taxation of polluting means of transport.
let me tell you that sustainability is built on three pillars.
first, of course, the ecological issue, which was widely discussed in your speech.
secondly, sustainability also means the economy, jobs, families and businesses that depend directly on the transport sector.
it is therefore also a democratic issue, beyond the ecological and economic issues.
billions of euros in energy that, in the end, can kill, because it is poison for the environment, poison for our planet, poison for our air.
you're proposing that we invest our money, taxpayers' money, in poison, rather than taking that money and putting it into renewables, into clean energy.
in this connection, a question to the commission: does the commission intend to terminate its cooperation with the united kingdom in the north sea energy corporation?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, chief negotiator barnier, after one of the darkest pages in the history of the union, we have the duty today to do everything possible to guarantee our citizens the results of 45 years of european integration, safeguarding our relations with the united kingdom and basing them on the principle of social and environmental equity and fair competition.
we need an ambitious agreement, which commits the united kingdom to maintaining our production and food safety standards and avoids the risk that access to the single market for overseas products will be a trojan horse for products which would jeopardise the health of our consumers and the economic sustainability of our farms.
these are the principles on which we are based on our conviction that after brexit there will be no vacuum, but an ever stronger and more sustainable europe, ready to defend its citizens.
madam president, we have heard tough language on assuring a level playing field and not lowering our european standards, for example when it comes to food safety or environmental standards.
and our demand is that we say no to the british weakening of worker protection or environmental protection.
it is up to the european union to promote rules-based trade and show by example that trade delivers, brings peoples together and raises standards worldwide on safety, labour, environment and human rights.
vietnam respects clear commitments to the ratification of two additional core international labour organization (ilo) conventions: its revised labour code, its improved labour and human rights situation and the implementation of the paris climate agreement.
political parties, also in this house, fuel a climate of racism and anti-immigration with their rhetoric, be it against jews, muslims, migrants, roma or lgbti people.
our societies have to undergo a digital and ecological transition in a socially fair way, and we need sufficient funds for this.
we shouldn’t be afraid to go and get own resources from plastic polluters, carbon emissions, big financial transactions, and a fair share from multinationals and kerosene because, if we don’t find additional money to realise the ambitions of the green deal, citizens will feel it.
the european parliament has played a key role in defining the legislative framework for the digital and energy transitions, promoting an articulated approach and valuing the social impact of technological transformation and process modernisation as tools to tackle inequalities and increase opportunities for european citizens.
a comprehensive gender strategy will streamline policy around three main axes: creating opportunities for women, keeping women on board in a fast-changing world - we think of digitalisation, migration and climate change, and we also need to take into account new forms of work such as platform workers.
we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security; the fifth anniversary of the sustainable development goals; and not least, the 25th anniversary of the beijing declaration and platform for action.
furthermore, the position paper also includes guiding principles on climate change and information and communication technology.
the eu will therefore pledge to continue supporting civil society and ensuring a safe and enabling environment for them to operate effectively at local, national, regional and global levels.
we also celebrate the 75th anniversary of the united nations and the 5th anniversary of the sustainable development goals.
next to this, new issues are emerging like climate-change and digital technologies.
as the un secretary-general highlighted, gender-equality and empowerment of women and girls is crucial to an economically uncertain world with increasing polarisation, environmental threats and conflict.
that is why equal pay, the elimination of barriers for women with disabilities, violence, the professional empowerment of women over 50, the declining participation of women in the labour market, women's poverty, access to the labour market and the empowerment of women from rural and remote areas, the impact of climate change on poverty, women's physical and mental health are all topics that will certainly be addressed at the 64th session of the un, and i hope that we will be able to find effective solutions and also adopt forward-looking commitments in the political declaration.
mr president, commissioner, you are well aware that the majority of this house are committed to the sustainable development goals and, of course, to our commitments to the paris summit.
because they know that the impacts of climate change are primarily on them.
they know that it's not the green deal, but it's the climate change.
this is not the impact of the green deal, but it is the impact of climate change that we have to fight, but we have to support our farmers in doing so.
we need to support active farmers who live in rural areas, who care for the soil, forests and biodiversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the food chain is responsible for between 21% and 37% of total co2 emissions.
a system designed in this way is no longer sustainable, even in the light of the challenge we face: producing more with less, and providing healthy, quality food for all.
and finally, thirdly, the essential element is protection: protection of consumers, protection of farmers, protection of the environment.
however, an automated road sector brings new risks and challenges that need to be addressed, such as new infrastructure for driverless vehicles, ethical issues related to liability and data protection, and environmental and health issues.
we need an eu strategy for safe and sustainable mobility.
we must do everything we can to bring about these coherent policies, this necessary solidarity between the member states, to have a europe which protects, to have an industrial strategy, that is true, but also a sound energy strategy.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
we need all our strength, all our energy and cooperation and, of course, a little patience to ensure that this day of extraordinary plenary session of parliament, which is so special and atypical, can be spent in peace, because with our decisions we could give oxygen to those who are currently at the forefront of dealing with this emergency.
staying within the boundaries of such frameworks, while exploiting their flexibility to the full extent, will allow us to provide the adequate immediate relief, while at the same time ensuring credibility and sustainability in the long term.
we also need to temporarily suspend the rules on the allocation of slots and end the so-called 'ghost flights', which have a high economic and environmental cost.
the suspension of the 80/20 rule will make it possible to avoid empty flights for as long as necessary, in order to avoid any environmental and economic damage in a mode of transport dramatically affected by this epidemic and whose very future is at stake.
we will have to help the economy to recover from the severe shock with an investment plan that is also geared towards a social and ecological transition.
money assigned to climate policy has to be mobilised to address the corona pandemic.
we need more money for corona and less for the climate law which mr timmermans presented here some time ago.
so were we too much focused on climate change and too little on the corona crisis and therefore we were too late to take action?
there should be an immediate moratorium on carbon emissions.
to the people of the south, already weakened by war, dictatorship, conflict, resource depletion and climate change, who will take the pandemic to the full.
climate change, the collapse of biodiversity, the depletion of resources have not been stopped by the coronavirus.
today we are rediscovering how essential the work of those who care for us is, those who cultivate the land and produce our food, those who enable us to move or those who collect our waste, those who, yesterday and tomorrow, will allow us to learn or who, through their art, make us think, vibrate and broaden our horizons.
let's not waste any more time.
let's not waste time, like i said, we don't have any more.
and finally, we must continue to develop the green deal, but also a new industrial policy, a circular economy and an ecologically and economically sustainable agriculture.
ladies and gentlemen, this crisis requires us to chart a new economic path towards a sustainable economy, guaranteeing european independence and safeguarding our strategic interests.
we need to focus on future spending, linked to the climate challenge and strategic reindustrialisation.
more than ever, it is crucial for the union to create the conditions for a sustainable, resilient and united europe.
creating sustainable jobs is not free.
in energy too: we need a recovery plan that takes this aspect into account in order to be as independent as possible in energy matters.
the immediate restoration of freedom of movement must be a priority, and we cannot afford to waste any of the tools at our disposal to achieve this.
consequently, i stress the ongoing need to reinforce our actions, together with the commission, member states, ema and ecdc to tackle vaccine hesitancy, improve vaccination coverage, promote sustainable vaccination policies, and contribute eventually to european and global health.
the european parliament fully supports michel barnier's team in their search for a good agreement and also makes clear what it does not want: a bad agreement that does not safeguard the single market or our environmental, social and labour standards.
so, i ask the commission, i’m asking you why are you giving beijing a free photo op while they use all their energy to wage a global campaign against democracy?
madam president, every day, brazil under jair bolsonaro is moving further away from climate goals: record deforestation in 2020, weakening of environmental protection services and indigenous rights, a bill that endangers protected areas and indigenous people.
but the trade dg, the trade dg, is trying to minimise these impacts, even though the commission and you, mr commissioner, keep saying that climate objectives are still central.
to implement its own objectives, those of the green deal, the council and the commission must denounce and demand the withdrawal of the brazilian bill, adopt binding legislation on corporate social responsibility, make trade policy contribute to climate and sustainable development objectives and, finally, recognize that the mercosur agreement does not meet its social and environmental objectives.
we are calling for a financial quota for future topics, erasmus, the energy transition, the circular economy and digitisation.
let them therefore contribute to our recovery, let them pay for a subscription to the single market, let them pay for pollution.
european money must make us prosperous and sustainable and must never cause harm, never be accompanied by harm to people, the environment or the rule of law.
choose a sustainable and prosperous europe and the netherlands.
we must not put our future and the five merkel goals on the back burner: values, cohesion, climate neutrality, a digital, confident and innovative europe in the world.
it will also have to be supplemented by increased own resources, some of which could come from carbon taxation at our borders, for example, or the taxation of gafa.
prevention through a healthy working environment is also an essential part of this.
the programmes for the europe of tomorrow - horizon europe, eu4health, erasmus+ - would not have been mutilated; we would have web, carbon and tobin taxes as early as 2021, and the leaders of the richest 10% of european citizens would never have been able to prevaricate on the other 90% by reaping the odious privilege of rebates.
we urgently need more own resources to give the union greater financial autonomy vis-à-vis the member states, but also to fight climate change, to promote harmonization and fiscal justice and to promote financial stability.
it is not enough to tax plastic waste; it is not enough to talk about the carbon border tax, the digital tax or the emission rights as a possibility: they are an imperative necessity.
it starts with a european tax on plastic waste and then there are many other forms of taxation that are in the pipeline: i would like to see a european digital tax, a european financial transaction tax, a european carbon cap tax and so on.
yet, just as caesar’s success was far from guaranteed, this package alone might not bring us the recovery that we wish and the sustainability that we need.
importers of cheap steel, for example, that do not respect our environmental standards will be contributing to the recovery through a carbon levy.
ladies and gentlemen, i invite you to support this text to the end because it is essential that all sectors of the economy including the maritime sector contribute and participate today in the common effort to complete the transition to achieve the goal of climate neutrality in the european union by 2050. i would remind you that shipping is currently the only sector not specifically targeted by a co2 reduction target or specific mitigation measures.
if nothing changes, global emissions from the shipping sector are expected to increase by 50% to 250% by 2050. i therefore urge you to vote: for the inclusion of the maritime sector in the co2 emission trading scheme (cets); for the introduction of eu-level energy efficiency standards for ships; the commission is also proposing to regulate the access of the most polluting ships to eu ports and to make it possible to force moored ships to use electricity from the dock.
they fight for social justice, human rights and sustainability.
european citizens worry about the future, about their health, about their jobs, about the climate, and about their future.
innovative companies are showing the way forward to a more circular economy and sustainable product design, as well as a socially just transition.
let’s listen to what the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) decided last week.
the more we reduce now, the more relaxed we will be towards 2050.
president, even with the pandemic, we need to focus more than ever on sustainable prosperity, on job creation, and i heard good things in your speech: the commission is therefore proposing to give greater attention to industrial policy, artificial intelligence and digitalisation, but please do much more to deepen the internal market, create a capital market for our small and mediumsized enterprises.
europe will be green and sustainable or it will not be.
and let us be able to understand that it is time to stand up to the most vulnerable and to call for an effort - of course also from those who have the most - to be able to sustain the european social model, to be able to make progress in the fight against climate change, to be able to tackle the european social pillar.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
i also welcome the announcement of a binding mechanism to set up a european minimum wage and the european commission's commitment to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030, although i would like an even more ambitious plan myself.
i think that commission president von der leyen has the right priorities: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
the commission will also be supporting the implementation of the new eu-wide climate change strategy, which will be implemented by the member states in the context of the eu-wide climate change strategy.
it's a waste of money, especially now.
we need an ambitious 2021 budget, one that is able to support sustainable and resilient economies and that sets the path for european sovereignty in health, digital, industrial and security.
the cuts in the eu's flagship programmes that are clearly oriented towards the future, such as the climate transition, digital, health or research, are already undermining the very foundations of this recovery.
we must be able to obtain as soon as possible the stabilized financial amounts which will enable us to take european decisions that will bring sustainable investment and human cooperation to the service of european citizens.
ladies and gentlemen, the european economy is collapsing, the world is becoming more and more dangerous, the large publicly traded companies are deceiving us, relocating, putting pressure on governments, dumping taxes, social and environmental costs and putting thousands of people, men and women, out of work.
if you're serious about fighting the climate crisis, you can't ignore the role of forests.
we need to transform our monoculture plantations in europe into mixed forests that are climate-friendly and also able to withstand the challenges of climate change.
only natural forestry can do this, can ensure a water supply, can ensure the highest yield of timber, can ensure the best quality of timber, and, by the way, ensures biodiversity and maximum co2 storage.
i’m from a country which has a large and thriving forest myself, and for me a good day is a day when i walk in the forest with my dog or spend time there enjoying the biodiversity.
but that being said, i also believe in a sustainable forest management that it’s possible to combine, and i’m convinced that the objectives of forest protection, strengthening biodiversity and wood protection can actually be challenges that together go as a big opportunity for our member states and also for the climate and climate policy in the eu.
forests and forest resources are of great environmental, economic and social importance.
we must work towards sustainable and multifunctional forests and woodlands, which are a source of natural and economic wealth.
in this respect, i was pleased to see that mr sarvamaa's report is in line with this and also advocates the strengthening of sustainable forest management.
another very relevant issue is the prevention of forest fires, a terrible threat that spain and other southern countries face every summer and which is aggravated by climate change.
they are true cleaners, removing 10% of all greenhouse gases emitted in europe.
the commission's proposal will therefore have to focus on the three pillars of economic sustainability, societal sustainability and, of course, environmental sustainability.
the effects of climate change: bark beetles, drought, new fungal diseases.
but can we in europe be responsible for the burning of wood in power stations so that member states can improve their carbon footprints?
with europe facing desertification, forest destruction from drought, pests, fires and other impacts of climate change, we must choose what is more important to us - the health and long-term impact of a diverse forestry mix or the short-term economic benefits of intensive forest management and the expansion of forest cultivation for biomass.
i think if we want forests to remain our lungs, to produce oxygen, to absorb at least 10 percent of the greenhouse gases we produce, to retain water, and to retain a number of other functions, including the production function that is talked about a lot here and that i don't appreciate, then we need to put the protection of forests first today.
i expect the commission to adopt a number of new measures, including a revision of the renewable energy directive.
i personally have a great deal of respect for the work that my colleague sarvamaa has done, but still, the emphasis on environmental protection and forest protection... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i am in favour - and i want to make this very clear in my speech - of an ambitious european forestry strategy which will be translated into future regulations at european level so that the national management of forestry policy today can gradually give way to european management.
we are also facing the great fight against climate change and we must take account of our climate commitments made at the paris summit and the proposals of the european green deal.
i think it is a balanced proposal which takes into account important aspects such as the need to preserve and promote biodiversity and the importance of reforestation.
just as sustainable development is made up of environmental, economic and social components, forest management is made up of all these components.
forests also play an important role in the green deal, our new development paradigm, and it is right to highlight this protective function, these important areas of biodiversity, water storage, firefighting and reptile control.
but we certainly need to talk about, in addition to the carbon sink, the economic use of forests, what farmers can actually do with forests, and what we can do with research to upgrade the bioeconomy, where forestry plays an important role.
i am glad that we slovenians can be proud of our sustainable development of forest management, as mr sarvamaa also recognised in his report.
farmers are the ones who will continue to ensure the sustainable development of forestry, and it is right to support it through the common agricultural policy and the rural development programme, while also enabling good management where forests are protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the text as voted by the committee on agriculture is a good compromise, that it is going in the right direction, that is to say, in the direction of outlining the commitment we must make in the coming years to defend our forestry heritage, taking account of course of the environmental aspects, which are fundamental, but also of the economic and social aspects which are linked to it.
the eu forest strategy post-2020 can best achieve a balanced representation of the three pillars of sustainability through sustainable forest management.
we're aiming to have 27 percent of the world's forest cover by 2030. this is an important part of the hungarian climate and nature action plan.
i would also like to emphasise that efforts to halt the decline of biodiversity are welcome.
however, this can be done most effectively within the framework of sustainable forest management, and it is regrettable that the publication of the biodiversity strategy preceded the forestry strategy.
the eu's biodiversity strategy is a key instrument for achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and climate action programmes, including the implementation of the eu's climate action strategy.
this is why i think it is very important that the principles of sustainable forest management are the guiding principles in both strategies.
mr president, european forests absorb 10% of the carbon emissions of the european union.
forests and the forestry sector have the potential to make an increasing contribution to combating climate change and to achieving the objectives of the european green deal for a climate-neutral economy.
healthy forests and resilient ecosystems have natural protective functions to adapt to climate change.
that is why we must first of all take care of the ecological state of forests, combat illegal and naked logging, promote forestry practices and preserve natural, old and age-old forests, which are an irreplaceable source of biodiversity.
in order to achieve the higher environmental objectives of the new cap, it is important to continue supporting the forestry sector and the development of the bioeconomy, to apply agroforestry practices and to incentivise foresters to protect, grow and manage forests in a sustainable way.
secondly, the environmental and climate challenge, of course, to protect biodiversity, but also to ensure that the whole forest can participate in the fight against global warming by storing co2 and also to prepare our forest in terms of planting so that this forest is not harmed by global warming, as can be seen in some european countries.
we must act to make this sovereignty much stronger, to ensure that tomorrow this raw material is processed at home, in short circuits, to ensure that the whole chain can develop and there, we will respond concretely to employment, the environment and the reality of the climate challenge.
it is in our interest to ensure energy independence in the european union.
we should not be dependent on importing fossil fuels or energy from the burning of fossil fuels from third countries.
achieving climate objectives is also important for europe from a security perspective.
a greener europe depends less on third countries for its energy policy.
energy issues are closely linked to our sovereignty.
the scientific consensus is clear: we need to get to a 65 percent reduction in emissions by 2030. and yet the commission came up with a much less ambitious objective.
fortunately, the european parliament is doing better, but here too there is no majority for a climate law that would simply reflect the scientific consensus.
we know why the far right is doing everything it can to avoid ambitious climate targets.
that we should break with the logic of the market and put energy policy back into public hands, instead of leaving it to the english, electrabel or shells of this world?
and what measures should be put in place in the member states and at european level to better support carers, to ensure that they are given greater recognition, to respect the freedom of choice of older people to go or not to go to care and rest homes, to support family carers and all healthcare actors to enable as many older people as possible to stay at home, in their living environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
without it, the fight against climate change cannot be carried out properly, only at the expense of economic viability.
so these changes must be made so that agriculture remains a fundamental activity in our rural areas and society understands and appreciates the environmental role it plays.
to meet the many economic, health and environmental demands, agriculture will need more predictability, more capacity for innovation, political coherence and a level playing field both within and outside the european union.
let me start by thanking the farmers who feed the 450 million people in the european union, and they are not having an easy time of it because they are affected by climate change and now by the impact of the covid-19 pandemic.
mr president, the current cap reform is the most ambitious reform to date, as it introduces both a new performance-based delivery model and higher climate targets.
for the first time, eco-schemes are also being introduced and direct payments are being made conditional on compliance with certain environmental requirements.
but along with environmental sustainability, we must not forget economic and social sustainability.
this does not prevent the achievement of new performance and objectives in the areas of climate change and biodiversity.
finally, i would like to say that i am of course in favour of all the climate and biodiversity objectives, that is obvious.
no other sector has as many standards as the agricultural sector: health standards, animal welfare, biodiversity... all this is already part of the standards and conditionalities, which will be strengthened.
but i would really like, once and for all, that whenever free trade agreements are discussed here, they should be given this particular attention, to avoid ruining the european economy, ruining farmers and, in some cases, winning the climate bet by means of these imported products.
that farmers are increasingly being asked to focus on broader climate goals.
one, this is the greenest cap we have ever had and at least 35% of all rural development funding must be used for environmental and climate measures.
30% of investments must be beneficial for the environment.
most of all this is a good deal for farmers, the people who have devoted their lives, the people who know best how to protect our rural environment, preserve biodiversity and produce sustainable quality food.
direct payments also offset some of the risks associated with agricultural production, which, unlike any other sector, is subject to additional risks linked to weather or climate change.
mr president, we can spend months debating in this house figures and eco-schemes, financial allocations, the green deal, capping, climate measures and many other issues directly related to the cap.
the use of environmental programmes so far is encouraging, and i expect that the eco-schemes will be oversubscribed.
i am convinced that this will help to protect the environment, improve the climate and preserve biodiversity.
the environmental programmes are 30% compulsory.
the fact that we better protect our land, the fact that we use ecological solutions to counter the devastation of our land, the devastation of our environment, will in the long run increase the food security of our citizens.
ladies and gentlemen, 30% is more than 80 billion euros for environmental actions.
there will be room for full implementation of the field-to-table strategy, the biodiversity strategy or the strategy adopted a few days ago to reduce methane emissions in agriculture.
for example, the second pillar has so far financed many activities which can be successfully financed from other funds: from cohesion policy, from the corrective fund, which has been adopted and will also be able to support this particular agricultural environment.
i want to say this: i grew up in a farming family, in an agricultural environment, where the principle was (was and i think it still is) that it was not about profit at any cost, "as little as possible to get the most profit", but above all to leave the farm in the best possible condition.
the 85 speeches also show very clearly how much we are concerned about this issue, how much it is important in the regions, in every farm, and how diverse the approaches to the common agricultural policy are - economic, ecological and social - and that this is actually an issue that concerns all citizens.
listen to the environmental groups.
a new common agricultural policy should not only take account of real agricultural activity, employment and the provision of services to society, but also contribute to the transition towards agro-environmental and organic practices, the reduction of meat consumption in favour of plant proteins, organic farming and short-run farming.
the aim is to bring about sustainable livelihoods for poor people, poor growers in africa, and avoid damage to our environment.
johnson has to respect the withdrawal agreement as well as community rules on social, labour, environmental and tax matters.
climate transition is not easy in many countries, but we are also aware of the tremendous responsibility that we have during this crisis to seize the opportunity to change our societies and our economies for the better.
our employees deserve a fair wage and a safe and healthy work environment.
the european parliament voted, just 15 days ago, the climate law which provides for a 60% reduction in our emissions by 2030. and yet we are stuck in texts that date back to the 1990s that do not incorporate the climate emergency.
we must stop procrastinating and get out of the energy charter treaty, which provides for the protection of investments in fossil fuels and the mechanism for settling disputes between investors and states, which also provides for a supremacy clause, so that this text is superior to any later text, such as the paris agreement, and which also provides for unanimity in decisions between 50 members.
just over 50 members who cannot agree on sustainability issues.
this is particularly problematic with a country like japan, with whom we have concluded a trade agreement and negotiated sustainable development chapters, which should allow us to have common positions on the international stage.
however, the principle 'for what, belongs to what' applies: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
our budget, which corresponds to the first year of the multiannual financial framework, must be able to support a four-year sustainable and resilient recovery facility.
the cuts in the union's flagship programmes, which are clearly oriented towards the future, such as the climate and digital transition, health, research and youth and culture, are already undermining the very foundations of this recovery.
the conciliation which will open on 17 november is crucial and it is equally crucial to make the most of it: 21 days of conciliation in a constructive and open spirit so that, in terms of frank and honest exchanges, we can meet the legitimate expectations of european citizens as from 2021. we must learn from this major crisis and build the foundations of european sovereignty in health, digital, industrial and even security, so as to be able to deal with current and future challenges by generating european decisions that bring sustainable investment and human cooperation to the service of all european citizens.
and i warn you, if you are going to use the revision of the directive on energy taxation, planned for 2021, to raise the price people pay for their energy, you will face a yellow vest movement again and not only in france.
but this tax alone will not be enough to guarantee a just climate transition.
environmental and budgetary issues dominate much of the agenda of our plenary session.
that is why, in the context of the vote on the report on 'the investment plan for a sustainable europe - financing the european green deal' launched by the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, i will support the following provisions which i believe have become imperatives today: first, that investments made under the european recovery plan respect the principle 'first, do no harm' (to ensure that the eu meets its commitments under the paris agreement) and, second, that the union's multiannual financial framework/budget does not support or fund activities that could harm climate and environmental objectives.
i also support the commission's assessment and identification of activities which significantly impair environmental sustainability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most efficient use of products and services is the way to ensure sustainable development.
efficient resource management and a commitment to the circular economy will help bring us closer to the goal of carbon neutrality.
i would also like to draw attention to the need to maintain the high standards in public procurement, particularly in the criteria of sustainability and the durability of products.
mr president, this report is committed to promoting a more sustainable single market for producers and consumers by applying the principles of the green deal in a pragmatic, consensual, realistic but firm and decisive way.
and on that story must be based product assurance, sound and reliable trade relations and sustainable development.
in the second area, public procurement, which accounts for up to 16% of european gdp, we should send a clear signal for reliable sustainability criteria.
this will not only contribute to the simplification of the equipment, but also to better recyclability and to meeting environmental objectives.
but we must always strike a balance between consumer protection and the sustainability of the manufacturers' capabilities.
i believe that forcing companies to produce and store large quantities of spare parts for which there is not necessarily demand would not only harm the environment but also the competitiveness of our companies in the union.
it has a very important role to play in sustainability.
we need to complete the internal market in services as soon as possible, as this can make a decisive contribution to a sustainable internal market from which consumers can benefit.
the sustainability of products, the elimination of planned obsolescence, is first and foremost a matter of consumer protection, of course, of environmental and climate protection, but also of protection of production, of our economy and of employment.
but i would also like to stress that we must now see, because this is lacking today, how we are going to control what enters our european territory so that these sustainability standards that are going to be raised are respected by everyone, and in particular by the largest workshop in the world today, china, whether in relation to prohibitions, whether in relation to controls or the strengthening of them, even if the member states are partly responsible, whether also in relation to what was mentioned by the president of the commission, namely customs duties raised, taxation at our borders, carbon taxation or, in any case, non-respect of sustainability and products.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
it is important that the new rules provide an incentive for consumers to make sustainable choices.
for the greens/efa group mr president, you know that we greens are intransigent when it comes to defining the challenges of european trade policy, and that is because, along with agricultural policy, trade policy is probably the area where the frictions with the european green deal are the most important and where the prevailing mindset is still that of the 20th century, when the objectives of sustainable development and the paris climate agreement did not exist.
second, to ensure that the sustainable development provisions are binding and that non-compliance by a partner is subject to sanctions.
can we hesitate on the social agenda, the digital climate agenda that reconnects citizens with the european project?
ms keller, ms bonafè and ms cseh were actually highlighting the importance of the climate discussion and climate targets which have to be assessed and we believe positively decided upon by the leaders in the next european council.
your calls for clarity is the same what we hear from investors, from business leaders, from our citizens, that we need the clear deal coming from the european council meeting on climate goals to put into the higher gear our efforts to reach the ‘fit for 55’ agenda.
the good news is that very soon we will have a strong ally in the united states in fighting climate change.
the initial contacts of president-elect biden with commission president ursula von der leyen, but also with other european leaders, and the track record of mr blinken, mr kerry, whom i know personally, is an absolute guarantee that the united states and the european union will work hand-in-hand if it comes to the importance of tackling climate change.
the most relevant debates were the response to the covid-19 pandemic, climate change, the fight against terrorism and violent extremism, the situation in the eastern mediterranean and relations with turkey, the eu's relations with the countries of the southern neighbourhood, the eu's trade policy.
i think, mr vice-president, that we should work towards a renewed partnership with the united states: not just resolve the conflicts the unilateral measures for aluminium and steel, the boeing/airbus issue, the carbon correction mechanism at the border but look ahead, sit down together.
these are not expenditure: they are investments in projects and programmes that serve the citizens, in the service of a greener, more social, fairer europe, concerned about sustainable economic development.
we have therefore decided, in this negotiation, to strengthen some of the flagship programmes such as health, youth, digital and its 'artificial intelligence' component, justice and the fight against violence against women, the environment and climate issues, transport infrastructure and research.
we also paid particular attention to the sectors most affected by the crisis, such as smes and tourism, in order to safeguard workers and promote the creation of sustainable jobs.
ladies and gentlemen, our institutions have shown courage, preferring creativity and ingenuity to business as usual for a massive, sustainable recovery.
europe will be there, mobilizing substantial investments as early as next year to meet the most urgent economic and social needs, stimulate a sustainable recovery that respects the climate and the environment, and safeguard and create jobs.
the european year of rail underlines the importance that this commission attaches to meeting the green deal objectives for transport, including a 90% reduction in transport emissions by 2050. rail also features prominently in our new sustainable and smart mobility strategy.
for the green label, on which i welcome your views, we’ll look at establishing an eu framework for the harmonised measurement of transport and logistics summations, as we have already announced in the sustainable and smart mobility strategy.
we know that farmers are also undergoing a lot of change, changing their climate, changing their market situation, being affected by the covid-19 pandemic.
but i regret that in two years' time we are postponing stronger environmental measures, that we are postponing more support for young farmers and that we will continue to see the large agro-complexes draw on funds that could be drawn on by small and medium-sized enterprises, that there is no congestion.
of course, we also have time to negotiate the new common agricultural policy, to do so with the actors, with farmers on our side, to make this just transition possible, to be able to achieve the important objectives linked to sustainability and the green deal, and to enable them to continue to have this primary function, which is a nurturing function and which enables our rural areas, our villages, all our territories to live.
the question must be: does this budget respond to the social and climate emergency?
on the climate front, the targets have been raised, very well, but the means are not keeping up.
we have already shown that global challenges like pandemics or climate change cannot be solved by individuals, but can only be solved by working together.
more than huf 4200 billion in eu aid will be allocated to agricultural policy, more than huf 80 billion to climate neutrality, and a significant amount will also be made available from the reconstruction package: more than huf 2600 billion in non-repayable aid.
i would highlight in this agreement the overall volume of eur 1.8 billion allocated to the various programmes, the eur 16 billion with which parliament was able to strengthen flagship programmes in the last round of negotiations, the inclusion of a formal and mandatory plan for the introduction of own resources as a key tool of the solidarity-based financing model, the establishment of ambitious cross-cutting targets for the allocation of funds to climate and biodiversity policies, the strengthening of the european parliament's monitoring capacity and its ability to act as a budgetary authority, and the adoption of a rule of law guarantee mechanism.
a rapid and effective implementation process is now essential to tackle inequalities, create wealth and jobs and position the european union as a positive reference in the new global geopolitical framework through the energy transition, digital transition and economic modernisation.
before i give the floor to sviatlana tsikhanouskaya, i would also like to congratulate and send a message of support to this year's finalists: environmental activists from guapinol and berta cáceres from honduras and monsignor najeeb michaeel, archbishop of mosul.
because we know that only the development, manufacture and deployment of safe and effective vaccines will be a lasting and sustainable solution in the fight against this serious health crisis.