mr president, less than a month ago, over 800 tons of waste destined for incineration in bulgarian power plants were seized by the italian authorities.
at the same time, the health and environment of bulgarians are being sacrificed in the absence of european control mechanisms.
i therefore call on the representatives of the european commission to intervene quickly in this case and to put forward proposals to control the trade in waste in the european union.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal.
it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc.
the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require.
the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change.
the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure this during the implementation process of all the proposals and measures included in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund.
we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure.
the equitable transition fund aims to achieve social justice in climate action.
the lack of adequate support could lead to a jump in consumer energy prices, which i find unacceptable.
it is also contrary to the principle of equity to reallocate financial resources from the structural funds to climate action.
for a successful transition, we need all low-carbon solutions without exception.
therefore, nuclear energy as a cheap, emission-free and safe source of energy should also be made available for financial support.
the european union has set itself very ambitious climate targets and i think that today almost no one questions the need to take action to stop climate change.
the eu has set itself ambitious targets to combat climate change and achieve climate neutrality by 2050. one trillion euros could be directed over the next decade to finance the transition to a green economy and mitigate its social consequences.
in contrast, net contributors are not enthusiastic about the initiative either - they generally support spending more money on the eu budget to combat climate change, but are reluctant to pay more at the block-expense, while poorer countries want generous aid.
we all face the enormous challenge of agreeing on a budget, working together, and the enormous challenge of delivering on the urgent climate goals.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal.
it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc.
the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require.
the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change.
the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure that this is the case during the implementation of all the proposals and measures contained in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund.
we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure.
it's a first step, and it's good that we have a place to start working to protect the most vulnerable citizens from the changes brought about by the transition to climate neutrality.
– our citizens urge for immediate action on climate emergency.
having people at heard of transition is the responsible way forward to a net-zero greenhouse gas economy.
this will have a transformative impact over all the european economy as well the lifestyle, including of the consumption habits – climate neutral in order that no one is left behind.
a just and fair transition policy framework and a sustainable investment plan with a visible positive impact on employment will create the conditions to better align eu climate targets for 2030 and 2050. the just transition fund, composed by private and public money, should approach the problems facing workers in regions that are economically dependent on the sectors in the frontline of decarbonisation.
regional development based on a carefully planned restructuring process, to which renewable energy plays central role, will create also new employment opportunities.
the ambitious objectives of the european green deal and the just transition fund are out of the question climate neutrality by 2050, making the eu's economy more sustainable and society more equitable and prosperous are ambitious goals and the pillars that form the foundation of the green deal.
and yet the sustainable development goals are not pursued with ambition.
a magical polyhedron that combines environmental, social and economic indicators must form the basis for the new green deal.
the level of 'green' energy technology and economics cannot compensate for this volume at all.
mr president, the protection and conservation of biodiversity is essential not only for the production of food, fuel and medicines, but also for a healthy life and sustainable local family business.
we need to bring together biodiversity and climate protection as part of a long—term, nature—friendly economic development.
the european commission has to guarantee the biodiversity objectives, effectively monitoring key projects funded by the european union.
in my home country, bulgaria, the natura 2000 safeguard mechanisms are practically not implemented due to inadequate governmental policies in the field of tourism, transport, energy, agriculture and forest protection.
we know that, all the time, emissions from the transport sector have been increasing, and we also know that the need for mobility is increasing all the time.
but i very much agree with the commissioner that we already have solutions available: we have alternative sustainable fuels, and here i think it is very important that we have a very technology—neutral approach, because we have very different regions in in europe and also different modes of transport with different needs.
madam president, european citizens want to live in a peaceful world, in an ecological environment, in a socially responsible and people-centred union.
quality of life, cleaner air, water are linked to a fundamental transformation in the field of transport by achieving efficient and interconnected mobility, but also clean and low-carbon mobility.
it is a fact that some countries and regions in europe will be more affected by the implementation of these policies, and i think it is extremely important to know what the social dimensions of the future transition to a low-carbon economy will be.
the environmental transition is an economic and social opportunity for every region in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has the ambition to set the global benchmark for sustainable agriculture.
however, i believe that a sustainable food system can only be achieved through a holistic, balanced, equitable and coordinated approach.
only if all stakeholders are involved in this process can we achieve a balanced approach, an environment and a fair income for farmers.
this crisis is forcing us to rethink our social and economic model to make it more resilient to systemic threats - whether they are environmental, medical, economic or social.
there are no flights, the streets are empty and emissions are down.
the 'green recovery' policy, which includes the modernisation of european energy and industry in the rescue package, also requires direct eu budget support.
we also need a much more resilient economy, a sustainable economy that is able to adapt more flexibly to challenges and to ensure the production of basic goods and services.
i urge the commission to propose an ambitious but at the same time realistic mff and recovery plan that also meets the union's commitments to move towards a sustainable, circular economy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on sustainable tourism and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on sustainable tourism.
we have also provided for an additional provisioning of eur 10.5 billion, and with that, we could provide guarantees up to eur 130 billion under european fund for sustainable development plus (efsd+) operations, as well as additional macro-financial assistance and loans to third countries.
this will allow us to help to boost sustainable and green investment in our partner countries worldwide.
china is clearly a necessary partner, like it or not, to solve global challenges such as the global pandemic and climate change.
no one can imagine that we can solve climate change without a strong commitment from china's side.
finally, in a sincere multilateralist spirit of close cooperation with key global institutions such as the un, the who and the g20, we must act to help our international partners dealing with the consequences of this pandemic and lead the way towards sustainable development as a core principle for recovery.
environmental disasters and military conflicts make a difference.
we need europe to take responsibility for revitalizing and reforming multilateral structures more than ever, because for global challenges like pandemics, like climate change, like inequality, or setting standards for globalization, we need cooperation; and competition doesn't do us any good.
otherwise, when you achieve climate neutrality, your citizens will be mindless, semi-literate half-humans chasing squirrels through the trees.
– the european parliament has, alongside several countries, local authorities and scientists, declared that our planet is facing a climate and environment emergency.
to avoid accelerated and irreversible climate change and a massive decline in biodiversity, global greenhouse gas emissions need to be rapidly reduced.
in response to this challenge, the european commission has presented a green deal, aiming to make europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050, achieving economic development with respect for the natural boundaries of the planet while ensuring a just transition with no person and no place left behind.
the climate law represents a cornerstone of the green deal.
we expect this fairness will drive to eradicate energy poverty, creating jobs and ensuring solidarity among all member states.
that is why it is so important that we start now, no time to waste.
i say again, with this climate bill, you're putting nature before people.
hungry people don't produce carbon dioxide emissions, i know that.
and they don't produce carbon dioxide, i'm sure of it.
it has ambitious environmental and climate targets, but equally important to me is the special attention to food quality and safety, young farmers, small and medium-sized farms and generational changes in farming - to name just a few.
but we must remember that at the heart of all these ambitious goals must be the most important one, namely food production itself: quality, sustainable and safe european food.
and so, despite the dissatisfaction, i think it is also time to move towards solutions that can help european farmers in the important challenges to increasingly sustainable agriculture in all its dimensions.
the first is to give more income to farmers who need it, especially small and medium-sized farmers, because you cannot make the agricultural transition, the agro-ecological transition, if you do not have the means to do it.
the second major priority is of course the agro-ecological transition.
that is why we are pleased that in the compromise 30 per cent of pillar i aid, 30 per cent of direct subsidies to farmers, will for the first time be linked to good environmental practices for biodiversity, for the reduction of pesticides, for the climate.
we have the opportunity again this week in the plenary to make this reform considerably better, in particular by voting on the 50 amendments which have been tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament, which i would of course ask you to support.
we also support a direct link between the objectives of the 'biodiversity' and 'fork to fork' strategies and the common agricultural policy, for example the 50% reduction in pesticides over the next ten years in europe.
bulgarian farmers will engage in the fight against climate change and work to ensure clean food, clean air and clean water, but at the same time expect to be supported in the green transition by levelling direct payments, maintaining tied support levels, continuing transitional national aid and living in dignity in modern infrastructure and quality services in rural areas.
we have increased the amount of money allocated to research and development, and we have allocated 30% to climate and 10% to biodiversity to secure our sustainable future.
this will allow for a sustainable recovery and development of the union.
thanks to the proposals of the socialists and democrats, this budget is more sustainable and greener and socially fair.
our political family will continue to fight for a sustainable economic recovery and an effective response to the new challenges posed by the pandemic and technological developments.
this mff and recovery fund will prevent the european union from going back to business as usual: on the contrary, it will help the union to become more resilient, sustainable, gender-balanced and inclusive.
secondly, we welcome these agreements because they can potentially enhance relations in areas such as technology, tourism, energy, trade, health, for regional cooperation.
we have always said there will not be sustainable peace and stability in the region without a comprehensive settlement of the arab-israeli conflict and in particular the israel-palestinian conflict on the basis of a negotiated and viable two-state solution, built upon the internationally agreed-parameters.
but we need to support every agreement that is a step forward towards sustainable stability in the region as a whole.
that reality today is climate change, and that reality is a scientifically proven threat to the entire world, but the most vulnerable are the small and weak countries that cannot cope with the cataclysms and the consequences of global warming on their own.
the european council is due to agree on targets for greenhouse gas emissions reductions in december, despite attempts by some european governments to deny the reality.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals.
the only way to achieve a carbon-neutral continent is by encouraging investment in rail transport, and i am also satisfied that during the negotiations a compromise was reached on the role of railway workers, those over 600,000 people, on the need for easy access for people with disabilities and on the ambition to develop a night network of trains across europe.
small and medium-sized enterprises should be at the heart of the european green deal and the recovery plan and supported by tailor-made financial instruments and a favourable legislative environment.
in this process, it is important to guarantee workers' rights, social and health standards and environmental protection.
a strategy that combines energy transition, digital transition, new sustainability and climate challenges, valuing people and tackling inequalities has to be the essential pillar in smes.
finally, the sme strategy should also be aligned with the revision of the definition of smes, which should optimise the viability, sustainability and economic, social and environmental impact of these enterprises.
we need to have action aimed at tackling skills mismatches and additional training for our employees to overcome the challenges of the new working environment.
react-eu is creating the space to invest in sustainable jobs, in new jobs.
react—eu builds on the flexibility of the crii package while bridging funding in the first crucial years of the recovery towards long-term cohesion investments in digitalisation and sustainability.
first, reflecting the importance of tackling climate change, react-eu is expected to contribute 25% of its resources to climate objectives, and in fact, the commission regrets that we could not get this information or this requirement in the legal text as an article.
the strategy should connect all the dots in the security ecosystem and respond to the ever-changing criminal environment, and in the current erosion of democracy and the decline of the rule of law globally, restoring a sense of security is the most important condition in building public trust and order.
the effects of climate change will spread across our continent.
adaptation is required to make measures at all levels transformative enough to deal with the systemic changes our climate, environment and society are facing.
throughout history, people and societies have adapted to climate variability and extremes with varying degrees of success.
taking responsibility for climate-related risk requires decision-making in a changing world with continued uncertainty on climate impact and with limitation on how effective the adaptation will be.
climate change impacts are more and more visible, with heatwaves, droughts, and wildfires across europe and no snow for christmas in helsinki.
climate change will continue to create significant difficulties in europe in spite of mitigation efforts.
moreover, europe is affected by indirect climate impacts occurring in other parts of the world in multiple ways, such as through trade and supply chains, spread of infections and threats to international security.
certainly, we will continue to do our utmost to prevent the unadaptable, such as a global warming level of 3⁰ celsius that will make life impossible in many places.
we must also adapt to the unpreventable as we are now already at 1.2⁰ celsius and the climate impacts are hitting us hard.
but it’s also on us to be engaged enough on this issue when it comes to agreeing on the different sectoral regulations, because it’s a horizontal issue and it’s not sufficient to be very committed within the climate and environmental caucus; it’s also important to be strict and ambitious across the board, if i may say so.
the eu's strategy for adapting to climate change will be discussed in the european parliament tomorrow.
we will vote on a resolution which reiterates the impact of climate change on ecosystems, in particular biodiversity; on the social and economic sectors, and the associated deepening of inequalities; and on human health, which is already so vulnerable today.
we also draw attention to the extreme weather conditions that we are witnessing in slovenia, which pose environmental, economic and security risks, especially for local communities.
our goals are clear: by 2050, the eu should become a carbon-neutral green economy leader and a model for the world.
even before that, we need to meet the interim target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. in caring for the environment, let us remember that greater ambition is always welcome.
just this week, the social democrats also re-introduced a motion for a resolution in the slovenian national assembly on the declaration of a climate and environmental emergency in the republic of slovenia.
i think it is worth mentioning this and stressing the energy that the current and previous rapporteurs put into these negotiations.