it is strikingly absurd, of course, that the countries with the largest fires -- australia, brazil, the united states -- led by mr. trump and some of my colleagues here today, who believe that climate change is not man-made, don't want the paris agreement to be implemented.
we must fight to implement the paris agreement and, at the same time, we must find the necessary money so that the european civil protection mechanism (resceu), for which i am the rapporteur of the european parliament, is ready in 2021, so that it can deal with the consequences of climate change both in europe and in the third world.
in australia, in december 2018, annual emissions of greenhouse pollutants increased by 558 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
australia insists on practically denying climate change and that is why its electricity generation is 60% coal-fired.
there are people, even here in the european parliament, who deny the existence of climate change; but fortunately for all of us, they're marginalized.
as leaders in tackling climate change, we must expand and support the alliance of stakeholders (countries, regions and industries) working to implement the paris agreement.
preventing another tragedy and providing a perspective for new growth, with new sustainable jobs that will support the sustainability of the planet.
however, i'm sure i'm rational about this, it's a consequence of climate change, and i'm going to turn to my colleagues on the left, because extreme heat and extreme drought are not a consequence of green ideology.
but because it's the result of climate change, which is causing extreme climate change, which is causing extreme temperatures, that's why these fires are happening.
madam president, i did not support the green deal resolution today, although i support a number of the proposals put forward by the commission, such as increasing biodiversity, protecting soil, forests, etc.
and the two amendments that we have tabled to support nuclear energy, which could help this transition, for example, people who are dependent on district heating, those amendments did not pass, and that is why i voted against this resolution.
as an environmental expert, he seized huge production capacities, first in the chemical industry, then in the food industry and agriculture, during the great privatisation after 1989. later he bought a significant part of the czech media.
– mr president, i think that the protection of the biodiversity is key and the time for this debate is timely organised because, just today, the world economic forum has published a report about the terrible biodiversity losses all over the world.
to protect natural diversity and mitigate the deterioration of climate change, europe should not embark on projects such as the eu mercosur treaty that will lead to further irreversible destruction of forests for livestock and crops for export.
we are not against, for example, climate taxes, of course, but they are needed for the welfare of the member states.
other requirements to be imposed on the eu's long-term budget are: all funds must be climate tested, not a single euro to climate-damaging activities, the structural funds must be re-arranged to deliver climate justice, the eu's corrupt and ineffective agricultural policy must be fundamentally overhauled, no funding for fortress europe, erdogan, the border police, and no funding for the european war industry.
for the financial perspective 2021-2027, some priorities are: giving priority to research and innovation, which are the oil of our century; making the allocation of cohesion funds conditional on respect for the rule of law and democracy; combating climate change; combating social and economic inequalities, etc.
the carbon tax, the digital tax, the financial transaction tax should be used to feed a european budget.
wanting to tackle climate change but not getting into science and research at the same time, can't work either.
the european green deal and the just transition mechanism, which we expect so much of, are being scuttled from the start, and with them the cohesion policy and the future common agricultural policy, which we will have to reform in the face of global warming.
yes, because global warming is here, it's real, and the green deal must be a real opportunity to fundamentally change the economic model.
to devote 40% of the budget to a chimerical green deal project that will not help the environment and will harm the economy.
by switching to electric mobility and renewable energy sources, the european commission is going to disrupt energy and transport at the same time, and thus reduce europe's competitiveness.
i am following the situation there and i know that there are human rights violations, that there are political prisoners there, but i am convinced that it is precisely with this treaty that the eu is getting the tool to push for improvements in the human rights situation or the environment.
– i will support the parliament’s legislative resolution on the false and authentic documents online system (fado) because it is outdated and needs to be adjusted for the new tfeu institutional environment.
agriculture is the first to feel the effects of climate change.
the renew europe group has notified the president of the following decisions relating to changes to appointments: - katalin cseh replaces nicola danti in the committee on foreign affairs- nicola danti replaces katalin cseh in the committee on industry, research and energy these decisions shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
parts of the industry and energy sector have gone into serious existential risk.
facing the need to decrease the carbon footprint and at the same time to absorb the negative effects of the covid crisis is a deadly mixture.
the industrial and energy sector needs to survive and recover first, in order to be robust enough to succeed in the climate transition.
therefore, i most strongly welcome you, and encourage you to put forward a short-term suspension of the emissions trading system, for example between the years 2020-2022. with this step you would save employment and prevent an increase of energy poverty inside the eu; you would stabilise businesses and the regions most challenged with the climate transition; you would get the situation under control and you would deserve respect for it.
the multiannual financial framework deserves a major overhaul to meet the eu's post-pandemic needs, but the aim should not be to endlessly increase costs just to meet pre-crisis carbon neutrality ambitions.
it is another trojan horse for european safety and energy security.
old priorities are not being addressed and new priorities, such as youth unemployment, health, climate and science, have been found to be non-priority after a review.
in conclusion, let me stress that the european funds which should be spent on these climate measures should be open to all possible efficient, accessible technologies, including nuclear energy.
covid-19 has hit national economies in an unprecedented way, but meps from the socialists, communists, people's party, greens and renew europe still want to burden european industry with further hard limits on co2 emissions or by unifying direct taxes.
all these demands run counter to the economic interests of our citizens and will be reflected in the rise in energy prices and in the price of european products such as cars.
the vote will take place on thursday, 8 october 2020. written statements (rule 171)
madam president, what we are doing today is moving from rhetorical targets to real legal and binding commitments on climate.
that's what the climate law means.
in this case, parliament is also demanding that we have a 60% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, with the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. this act is the cornerstone of the european green deal, probably the most relevant project for europe in the next decade, in which there will then be regulations and a huge transformation of our energy sources, our industry, our transport and mobility and our housing.
china has announced its willingness to be climate neutral by the year 2060, and we expect the united states to be back in this race after november.
madam president, we definitely need a climate law, but it must bring all eu regions together.
one of the key issues is the energy transition.
member states with industrial regions can reach ambitious climate goals but not only through switching to renewables.
besides renewables, here will also play low carbon technologies, like nuclear, and transition technologies, like fossil gas projects.
therefore, i strongly encourage in the upcoming climate law negotiations, and within the negotiations on the various sustainability tools and state aid, to build the conditions for all technologies to reduce emissions.
such technological openness will be one of the key success factors in the climate transition and will maintain public support in the most challenged regions.
we are constantly told to listen to the scientists, but when the european environment agency says that even the 40% target by 2030 is problematic, the proposers respond with the stakhanov number of 60%.
even the impact assessment, which we only got after the envi vote, is still at a maximum of 55% by 2030. the commitment to climate neutrality by 2050 concerns not only the eu but also the member states, and does not take into account their different starting situations with the covid-19 pandemic, which has damaged and will damage their economies, nor the conclusions of the european council.
more broadly, we need to ensure appropriate regulation and supervision of the more complex ecosystem and fragmented value chains that may emerge from the increased involvement of technology companies in the provision of financial services.
but we agree on our objective of making financial market coordination at european union level more efficient, more sustainable and also more stringent.
(applause)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the capital markets union is a necessary complement to the european credit market, brings an end to the national stain carpet, creates more financing opportunities for citizens, more potential for growth and employment and more power to tackle climate change and digitalisation.
our pioneering role in sustainable finance will help us to achieve our ambitious objectives under the green deal.
that means strong protection of retail investors and clear standards for sustainability, both environmental and social.
it will decide how our food is produced, how our land is managed, how our environment is protected or indeed destroyed.
the chairman of the environment, public health and food safety (envi) committee tells us that we torpedoed the process.
amendments that would have really ringfenced money for the environment.
amendments that would have excluded areas that have nothing to do with the environment.
we need a balance between a policy that looks at sustainability, that looks at climate change, but also looks at the needs of the citizens for their daily food.
i hope that this week we will be able to lay a good foundation for the farmers, for the young farmers, for the consumers and for the environment in europe.
she's quietly accepted that there's no real link to the green deal, the farm-to-fork or the biodiversity strategy.
we need a clear link to farm-to-fork, biodiversity strategy and the paris agreement.
the old proposal, as it stands, still has a computational climate protection in it.
we have managed to wipe this area off the table completely, we cannot say with a calculation of climate protection, we automatically calculate the area at 40%.
and i am grateful to my group, the s&d group, for saying from the outset that we will not have a computational climate change policy, but only a real, real, science-based climate change policy.
if you dare to talk about volunteering in eco-schemes, if you dare to talk about climate money ending up in the final payments, then you are sinning.
the common agricultural policy is designed to help farmers, of course, but it is also designed to help the countryside and protect the environment.
for good water and soil quality, we need to increase biodiversity.
unfortunately, as farming intensifies, biodiversity is declining.
we in the czech republic have the highest average size in the european union and we also see the negative impacts not only on the environment.
let me start by saying that although i am not usually involved in the very popular war on carbon, which has overtaken all other issues here on the floor of the european parliament in the last year, the protection of nature is something that is very close to my heart.
we all have big plans in common when it comes to transport policy: digitisation, automation, reduction of emissions.
finally, we consider the european union's recovery tool to be an important step towards a fair and sustainable recovery.
only this could help equip the emff with the real strike for 2021.
madam president, executive vice-president, in order to truly deliver on the ambitious objectives of the european green deal, it must be sustainable not only environmentally, but also socioeconomically.
we have to create favourable business environments, adequate regulatory frameworks, relevant and accessible financial instruments, and above all, incentives for companies to invest in sustainable technologies.
our business sector will be a key enabler to climate-related policies.
finally, it is also essential that sufficient funding is available for the regions and people who will be most acutely affected by the transition to more sustainable economic activities.
i believe that in this situation, member states and the private sector should be untied to treat the common funds according to their current needs, not to impose new conditions in line with the eu's long-term environmental and climate ambitions, and even to revise the existing rules in order to finance the green deal, for which, moreover, all the parameters are not yet known, let alone the impact studies.
a deeper and more digital single market; a global level playing field and open markets; working towards climate neutrality and a more circular economy; fostering employment and innovation, skills and investments: all these will be essential to achieve our goals.
to make that future sustainable, inclusive and fair for all, we need to spend the money from the recovery instrument in a way that crowds in private investment and does not undermine the ability of our industries to compete by harming competition or weakening the single market.
– the european industrial policy strategy should promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation, where climate neutrality, sustainability, innovation and competitiveness should go together with social inclusiveness.
economic recovery following the pandemic must be sustainable, fair and socially just with focus on digital and green transitions.
it is not a question that the new industrial strategy should enable companies to contribute to their climate-neutrality targets, but also should support firms, particularly small and medium enterprises in their transition to a digital and carbon-neutral economy with creating high-quality jobs and without undermining the eu’s competitiveness.
amongst others, it is rightly tackling such issues as: maintaining our global role model for sustainability; reflecting on supply chain disruptions we experienced at the beginning of the pandemic and underlining the importance of cross-border value-chains; declaring that smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups are key players in our market; and equating social, environmental and economic criteria in public procurement frameworks.
established industrial firms can be supported by smes to adapt their business models to smart, digital and sustainable processes, enhancing resilience to external shocks.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 december 2020. written statements (rule 171)
the next item is the debate on the report by paolo borchia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a new strategy for european smes (2020/2131(ini)) (a9-0237/2020).
just one idea before i close: the report by the committee on industry, research and energy puts forward an idea for a formal state of the sme union.
recovery actions should not only boost the economy and protect jobs, but also initiate a smooth transition to a dual transformation towards a sustainable and digital eu in the near future and make europe the most attractive place in the world to start a small business.
smes are the backbone of the european economy the covid-19 crisis has had a negative impact on the economic environment, with the effect of reducing activities or even bankrupting european businesses.
in addition to the damage caused by the coronavirus, smes also have to cope with unfair competition non-eu producers continue to rely on lower labour and environmental standards than those at european level the european union must protect its own businesses and become the most attractive continent to set up a business i 'm not .
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the community's energy sector.
the proposal, which i have stressed on several occasions, is that in order to create a business-friendly regulatory environment, the commission should first examine all legislative proposals in terms of their impact on competitiveness and smes and take the results into account in all legislative proposals.
the commission should also be able to use the appropriations entered in this article to finance the expenditure incurred by the member states in implementing the union's policies on energy, climate change and the environment.
to do this, we need to create a level playing field and a functional environment for smes to thrive in the european single market.