the agenda includes the discussion of the commission statement on the devastating bushfires in australia and other extreme weather events due to climate change (2020/2504 ((rsp)).
canberra experienced peak air pollution levels that were 20 times above the hazardous threshold, to give just one example.
climate change will increase the frequency of extreme weather events and these events will continue to affect us, and with more and more consequences and higher and higher intensity.
do we need more proof that the prevention of climate change and environmental destruction, adaptation and disaster risk prevention, are absolutely necessary, and that we need to mitigate the effects of climate change together in europe, in australia and in the rest of the world?
we have discussed many times in recent months the importance of eu leadership on global climate action.
the european union will use all the tools at our disposal to tackle the global climate challenge.
our bilateral engagement with partner countries is crucial, in particular with the g20 economies that are responsible for three-quarters of global emissions.
we value our long-standing partnership with australia and are working to strengthen it through the establishment of the dialogue on climate action under the framework agreement.
the commission thanks the parliament for tabling this urgent debate and for seeing the climate urgency in these tragic events and especially in these circumstances, where we need to highlight the need to take global action.
this is yet another proof of europe’s ambition to take leadership against climate change, and on this the commission will always remain on your side.
firstly, with the commission's relaunch, the launch of the green deal and the follow-up to the world climate conference in madrid, the eu must add a climate and environment dimension to its foreign policy more clearly than before.
we need more than just summits and conferences, we need constant promotion of the paris climate targets and the content of the green deal.
the future eu climate diplomacy must be strengthened in terms of personnel and, above all, institutional and competence, so that we can quickly bring on board partners like australia, which have been difficult to reach so far.
therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, please take up the new challenge of preventing and adapting to firestorms and strengthening european climate diplomacy.
what bothers me most about the debate is the sensational satisfaction of left-wing climate neurotics with the terrible fires in australia, under the motto: here is finally the proof of man-made climate change.
without wishing to sound cynical, devastating fires have repeatedly erupted from the fires that are part of the continent's ecosystem: 1851, 1939, 1983, 1974, 1975, for example, were such years.
we need to look very closely at how our economic relations with australia are fuelling the climate.
because now even prime minister morrison is recognizing that there is a connection between the climate crisis and the fires.
this agreement will lead to increased emissions, as the commission's own official analysis shows.
and that's going to continue to heat up the climate.
australia is burning, and siemens is putting the adani deal ahead of the paris climate accord.
in order to meet the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and to put pressure on member states, the commission needs to require all member states to have a national strategy to prevent and address homelessness.
the european union is currently the largest global economy with the lowest growth performance, it has the lowest investment power, but it wants to spend three trillion euros on climate change, which is not necessarily a technology of the future, even if the majority of people here think otherwise.
sadly in our rights-obsessed political climate today, such basic rights seem forgotten.
however, what i’m missing in the proposal is a clear commitment to european level climate targets.
one of the greatest challenges is to think together about environmental, economic and social policy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy is a very important one.
the poorest and most marginalised people in particular are facing the negative impacts of climate change.
the goal of the sustainable development agenda is to end poverty in all its dimensions by 2030, not to make it worse.
the path to a climate-neutral economy must be a joint, inclusive process that eliminates discrimination of any kind to the greatest extent possible.
(mike is off) ... must provide answers for the 50-year-old polish coal worker, for the 20-year-old danish climate activist, but also for the 26 million eu citizens who suffer from asthma.
they will remain at 25% for climate investment and the old draft financial framework of mr juncker and mr oettinger.
we want google and amazon to contribute to the eu budget, and we want carbon-intensive imports from other countries to be priced and taxed.
we must finally tackle climate change with courage, optimism, with new ideas, with entrepreneurship, with innovation, and not with planned economies, bans and renunciations.
and that's what needs to happen here, because we're not going to get around climate change.
there is no real climate action without justice.
we need to take everyone into the future, invest in new careers; we need a climate-friendly and fair europe as soon as possible.
she wants to do climate change without putting extra money into it.
climate protection is not going to be a zero-toll proposition, and in other words, no new european high-speed trains, windmills or the cars of tomorrow are being developed and built.
we need climate protection and justice, but to do that you and the german government must be more consistent.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
that would be sustainable security policy, not what you're doing.
while nigel and the band of lying brexiteers are driving the uk over the cliff edge, we start a much needed debate on the next steps of european integration, a debate that will lead to a stronger and a more democratic union and because we think what is needed in a time of climate crisis, of large corporations not paying their taxes, of being squished between a less reliable united states and an ever-stronger china, is not small mindedness, is not national selfishness.
it is proof of a lack of european union, it is proof of the fact that a european energy community does not exist in europe.
so if really those people, like those in the brexit party, are anxious about nord stream, well, they should create the energy community we desperately need and as fast as possible, colleagues.
yet also proposes more taxes and an eu green deal for eur one trillion plus, when eu influence on world climate is minimal.
we know that citizens cannot just be offered the option to listen to what we politicians and institutions have to say about globalisation, climate neutrality, green policies, migration, digitalisation, social justice, competitiveness, and so on.
it must become more democratic, more social, more ecological, and above all it must overcome the distance that many people feel towards it.
the only way to find out how to balance ecological, social and economic concerns is to engage in a great deal of exchange with the citizens of europe.
participation is at the heart of a sustainable and regenerative culture that we urgently need to limit climate change and stop biodiversity loss.
we have not, however, wanted to reject this resolution, because we, as directly elected representatives of the european union, must be particularly concerned with questions of climate and environmental protection.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in all areas organized in the carbon trading system we will achieve the intermediate targets, in all areas not organized in the carbon trading system we will not achieve the targets.
we have a very, very valuable tool here, and we think that the carbon trading should be extended to the areas of both heating and transport.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
who among us does not want this: clean air, clean rivers, an untouched environment and the protection of native flora and fauna?
i think that man is part of our ecosystem, whereas many green-left demands make you wonder whether the idea that humanity would be much better off without it was not there.
i am driven by a more fundamental idea: environmental protection was yesterday, today it is rather hypocritically saving the climate with fatal consequences for the environment, which does not matter much to the climate doomsday disciples.
the fact that the climate religion, landscape protection and, above all, a lot of forest land are being sacrificed for wind turbines, greta's troops respond with astonishing ecological equanimity.
and those who once did not prevent a ban on cadmium and lead in solar panels or sulphur hexafluoride are now mocking the use of pesticides and are the same ones who do not at least blink when the mining of rare earths - in batteries, for example - uses highly radioactive thorium and other toxic waste products in china, and instead lament in an old-fashioned way the alleged impacts on biodiversity of climate change.
i brought something here: this is the report 'the state and outlook of europe's environment'.
it compiles the data of the last five years collected by the european environment agency on the environment in europe.
the key message of this report is that we must stop looking at biodiversity and conservation as separate policy areas and give a few million to support them while at the same time throwing billions into economies that destroy nature.
i am therefore glad that this parliament will adopt a strong resolution on biodiversity tomorrow, which contains many important points.
because we need these funds to improve the state of the environment in europe.
in the end, let's be honest, it's like this: even if we make a lot of rules here - which costs a lot of money on the one hand, as mr ferber has pointed out, and also a lot of time and energy - the problem is that if the people concerned do not have the sense that the whole thing has a "taste", as we say in baden-württemberg, where i come from.
it's about resource allocation, and we're also making clear that the climate crisis is already affecting living conditions, not just some day, that the climate crisis is already having a decisive impact on economic stability and on local conflicts.
i have to say, madam president, transforming the transport sector to have any chance of meeting the paris climate targets is clearly a mammoth task.
let us start today by making the most obvious: without a massive strengthening of rail in europe, we will not be able to transform the transport sector in a sustainable way.
they are often the only real climate-friendly alternative to flying within europe.
i have to say, madam president, i find it very interesting how vigorously people are discussing the idea that we should exclude sustainable investment from the investment rules.
but at the same time, i find it surprising that this sustainability rule does not seem to have any bearing on other investments.
we are producing stranded assets, investments that are lost to european citizens, which are actually fuelling the climate crisis.
i find it really fascinating that on the one hand we're talking about maybe not wanting to be so strict about sustainable investing, but on the other hand wanting to throw out absolutely unsustainable investing with both hands.
the southeast of europe needs to become part of our green deal if we want to see europe climate—neutral by 2050. however, we should keep our promises.
we want ai to really serve everyone, and we can now set the course for that - with a clear yes to ai for climate protection and sustainability, but also with a clear no if it discriminates against people.
the green deal is more an excuse for printing money endlessly than environmental protection, and the capital markets union is helping big banks and investors who have been flooding in debt since 2011, while smes are suffering from credit crunch.
and i want to make one more point: it seems that no one here has read the artelys study, which was published only recently, and the energy consultancy agency makes it quite clear: in order to meet our gas needs by 2050, and also to be able to transport green gas and hydrogen, which have all been mentioned here, we do not need new infrastructure.
that means that these 29 billion euros are stranded assets, as has been said before, and we should better invest this money in a real energy transition, and that is why i am asking you.
the european commission is presenting us with a list of pci energy projects which are supposed to be of common european interest.
this list has been binding us in europe for decades to fossil fuels, against the green new deal, against the requirements of the paris climate targets and against the european parliament's resolution on the climate emergency.
this list is dumping billions of taxpayers' money in a fossil grave in a europe which, according to the same european commission, wants to be climate neutral by 2050. this is absurd!
we want fossil natural gas projects to be replaced by electricity projects, by smart build and by renewable energy projects.
we want to put climate protection at the heart of the commission's future industrial policy strategy, with a separate chapter on renewable energy.
madam president, this parliament decided in november that the paris agreement should be anchored in all chapters of our trade agreements, and this parliament decided in december that all our trade agreements would have enforceable environmental and social standards.
also, this parliament considers itself to be at the forefront of human rights, and yet the majority of this house is ready to vote ‘yes’ on the trade and investment deal with vietnam, in a situation where human rights are deteriorating in vietnam and the numbers of political prisoners has been on the rise since 2016; in a situation where civic and political rights are systematically being cracked down; and in a situation where the deal on the table still does not contain enforceable social and environmental standards – and not only the social democrats in this house always pretended that this was a red line.
i understood that there is a majority in this parliament to make trade more sustainable and climate-proof, which is good.
there was no more free trade agreements giving multinational companies rights against states, environmental laws, health protection laws or social rights.
the free trade agreements that contribute to climate change, particularly through deforestation, are over.
the eu is also committed to the protection of the marine environment and the conservation of marine resources.
by having this framework in place, we will now have a way to constructively engage on topics ranging from human rights to the environment and, as with any agreement, implementation will be the key.
parliament, if giving its consent tomorrow, takes a heavy responsibility of making its own demands happen in reality on sustainable development, human rights and participation of an independent civil society, and, as our own committee on foreign affairs demands, the commission and its vietnamese counterparts still must set up an independent monitoring mechanism on human rights and an independent complaints mechanism with the recourse to remedy.
dialogue and verification of commitments will contribute to the development of human rights, labour and environmental protection in vietnam, not turning our backs.
madam president, mr hogan, the agreement between the european union and vietnam is of great strategic importance because of the impetus it gives to our trade relations with the asean region and because of vietnam's firm commitment to defending multilateralism and sustainable development when the world needs it most.
an ambitious tariff reduction, enhanced cooperation and, above all, a binding sustainable development chapter defining a framework for labour relations with vietnam more in line with ilo principles and conventions have been negotiated.
the most important thing is that with the agreement we have established a solid legal framework, a platform for dialogue, control mechanisms and a permanent commission composed of representatives from both countries, where we can talk not only about the content of the trade agreement, but also about the implementation of the paris climate agreement and the green deal, about freedom of the press and about human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president lagarde, we will not vote in favour of this resolution of parliament on the annual report of the ecb because the good intentions of wanting to combat climate change are not enough to absolve the ecb of failure in its actions to support the real economy.
today, with ms lagarde's new leadership, there are new winds blowing, including a major strategic review to align the ecb's policy with the objectives of combating climate change and the green deal, without prejudice to its mandate.
we have already paved the way for change with the africa—europe alliance for sustainable investment and jobs, supported by the external investment plan for sustainable investments, and have achieved, in such a short amount of time, tangible progress.
the strategy’s comprehensive character will be ensured by its inbuilt links with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the paris agreement on climate change, the eu global strategy, the european consensus on development and agenda 2063 of the african union.
thematically, apart from addressing the climate and environmental challenges, we will focus on digitalisation and gender equality, which are major enablers for development.
because the european commission has explicitly defined itself for the first time as geopolitical and has committed itself as a whole to implementing the un sustainable development goals, because of the pressing issues of climate change and migration, because the cotonou agreement needs to be renegotiated and we have the green deal, because of the rapid development of digitization and a new free trade zone in africa.
they identified four priorities for joint action, including investment in human capital, resilience, peace, good governance, and investment in sustainable development structures and migration.
written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the following questions: oral question to the council on the protection of the eu internal market and consumer rights against the adverse effects of illicit trade in pet animals by stanislav polčák, sylwia spurek, martin hojsík, alexandra louise rosenfield phillips, jadwiga wiśniewska, anja hazekamp and eleonora evi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000010/2020 b90003/2020) (2019/2814(rsp)) and oral question to the commission on the protection of the eu internal market and consumer rights against the adverse effects of illicit trade in pet animals by stanislav polčák, sylwia spurek, martin hojsík, alexandra louise rosenfield phillips, alexandra louise rosenfield phillips, jadwiga rosenfield phillips, jadwiga wiśniewska and eleonora evi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000014/2020) (o-000014/2020) (o-000011/2020) i would like to remind you that you can view the spontaneous messages and the 'blue cards' both electronically and by raising the cards.
do we want to make the eu climate neutral?
we need more joint investment in the eu to make the eu climate neutral, but we also need to spend the funds in a more climate-friendly way.
less for coal and industrial agriculture, more for renewable energy and climate-friendly agriculture.
we greens are fighting for a strong budget and for more climate spending.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, next week the special european council will be dealing with a very important subject: what resources will the european union have from 2021 to 2027 to meet the new challenges we face and give european citizens a more environmentally sustainable, fairer, safer, more modern society?
and that challenge might be something like this: we are faced with the challenge of creating a new industrial ecosystem.
if we look at the stands, we see many young people who are putting their hopes in erasmus, in research and development, in the fight against climate change.
i have to say, madam president, mrs dalli, i am very pleased that we are now entering this process of strategy with such energy, and i am also pleased that our parliament's resolution, which we are voting on tomorrow, has a strong foreign policy dimension.
i ask the council and the commission: if the situation on the western balkans route, the increasing numbers of illegal border crossings or the instability in europe's neighbourhood do not make us launch an ambitious and sustainable asylum and migration package, if we do not use this window of opportunity, what then?
agriculture and forestry are the only sectors that produce oxygen and capture carbon dioxide, which means that they make for a good climate.
i would ask mr timmermans to ensure that the political climate is good and that our farmers are not left out in the cold.
we need to support family farms, to reduce the use of pesticides and fertilisers through precision farming, and to encourage farming that is friendly to people, the environment and animals.
we need to support short chains that allow food producers to earn a fair income and consumers to compete on price, to prevent large retailers from hindering farmers and to reduce food waste.
mr president, commissioner, a comprehensive review of the food system is absolutely necessary, both from the point of view of the environment and the producer.
the strategy must therefore look beyond the farmer and the farm level: storage, processing, packaging, distribution and food waste.
they all have an impact outside the premises, but they are reflected both at the premises and in the environment.
it must be understood that only a profitable farm can produce food and be good for the environment.
this strategy therefore needs to provide an even stronger foundation for the sustainability of the entire food chain, including in terms of farm profitability and the livelihood of the producer.
since last year, when a referendum was announced to amend the constitution, the political opposition and civil society have challenged the draft and the political climate has turned violent.
but in the midst of the climate crisis and the beginning of a new economic crisis, we can no longer afford these nationalist power struggles.
or do we not want a strong europe, with a strong budget to promote climate change and social justice, to finance the digital agenda and the digital europe programme?
the closure of the tourism sector this year will threaten the budget sustainability of member states like croatia, which generates almost a quarter of its budget from tourism revenue and connects tourism with other sectors such as transport and agriculture.
is it not time to consider whether what we hold so dear here - from the climate emergency to the gender strategy - is not less important than the concrete help?
we need to find sustainable solutions to combat the virus and to deal with the economic damage.
we must act decisively, quickly and sustainably, and also have the planning certainty to reorganize and improve the living conditions of the people of europe in a sustainable way.
ludwig hunted, we are debating: in january on the green deal, climate action and the future of europe and in february on the third gender and human rights in madagascar.
asylum for the world, climate emergency and gender mania are collective symptoms of a neurotic evasion of the struggle of self-assertion and the omnipotent fantasies of a powerless patient: europe's escape into the disease.
instead of privatization, we need to invest in our health care system, and instead of spending money on climate polluters, we need climate-friendly infrastructure.
post-corona rebuilding is not about fearfully shoveling money into old structures - not in the corona crisis, not in the climate crisis.
now is the time to seize this moment and invest in a circular economy, in energy and resource efficiency.
we need an industrial strategy that implements decarbonisation and climate-neutral economies, that takes into account the social impact on local people, like the just transition fund.
we now have a great opportunity to set the right conditions and incentives for a strong, sustainable, competitive economy in europe.
the european green deal is a concept put forward by the european commission with the aim of reducing net greenhouse gas emissions in the european union to zero by 2050, thus becoming the first continent to become climate neutral.
where is a trillion dollars supposed to come from to fund a completely unfactual and insane climate-mad ideology?
the corona crisis has brought the madness to the fore: although in recent weeks there were few cars on the road and emissions were significantly reduced, the nitrous oxide levels have not decreased.
(the president declared the common position approved as amended) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we are doing it for our common values and interests – values that don’t depend on the signature as a member of the eu: liberal democracy, climate policy, women’s and minority rights, human rights.
madam president, vice-president šefčovič, the low expectations for the european council are undermining the climate of optimism and confidence that our citizens and our economies need.
the recovery fund, in conjunction with the community budget, can support high quality primary production, renewable electricity coupled with jobs in the circular economy, the digitisation of the public sector and its linkage with small and medium-sized enterprises that are now struggling to reopen.
not only an unprecedented trade partnership, zero tariffs, zero quotas on all goods - a first in the union's trade history - but also an agreement on fisheries, mr bellamy said, and an agreement on a level playing field, which will cover state aid, taxation issues, but also social rights and environmental rights.
as christophe hansen said just now, an agreement on economic and social fair play, and this agreement will also have to cover energy, transport, security and defence issues, and on the basis of this unprecedented offer, we also want the conditions for access to our market to be fair.
comparable environmental and social standards are as urgently needed to ensure fair competition as agreements on fisheries policy or police and judicial cooperation.
in this situation, what can be more shocking than hearing a minister calling to get rid of environmental protection while people are distracted by covid—19?
this is what brazilian environment minister, ricardo salles, was caught saying on video.
resistance was big before, but now in this line that leads brazilian environmental policy, i don’t see any chance for that deal.
theoretically, but in fact, more and more loggers, gold miners, cattle ranchers, soybean farmers are invading these protected areas, making the area the most damaged indigenous area in brazil in 2019. various laws already enacted or planned by the bolsonaro government to weaken environmental authorities, facilitate land grabbing and amnesty land theft show little sign of improvement.
this is a social catastrophe, but it's also a huge ecological catastrophe, because with the amazon, one of the most important and richest in species is being destroyed, one of the most important combatants against climate change.
the ituna-itatá cannot rely on their government to provide them with legal certainty and to assist them in legal disputes to combat land grabbing and environmental destruction.
as in many other debates, this so-called parliament is seriously overestimating its powers, because as long as the amazon is not part of the eu, we should rather look to our member states, where nothing else is happening on a regular basis and where land grabbing and deforestation are being carried out to promote an alleged energy transition that is not a real one.
mr president, mrs chancellor, do not make lazy compromises at the summit at the expense of the climate and our democracy.
climate change, nature conservation, the erasmus programmes, but also funds for democracy are permanent tasks and cannot be limited to three or four years in a fund.
the commission has indeed deployed a great deal of legislative financial resources, but all in a disorderly manner and in a climate of complete impetuosity.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the sustainable chemicals strategy by maria spyraki, maria arena, frédérique ries, sven giegold, danilo oscar lancini, pietro fiocchi, anja hazekamp, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000044/2020 b9-0013/2020) (2020/2531 ((rsp)).
the 30% climate investment is a step in the right direction.
the climate movement, but also many here in parliament, have been fighting for a very long time for more climate investment.
we need more investment in climate protection and, above all, in biodiversity.
never let a good crisis go to waste!
it is not acceptable: cuts in future programmes, in health and research, no strong hand in the breach of the rule of law and too little climate protection.
we have promised in this parliament to save the earth - with a climate-neutral europe by 2050 at the latest, with a green deal as a short-term programme.
we need to move towards a sustainable, solidarity-based economy with all the positive opportunities that it brings, and that is our responsibility.
the eu wants new taxes: eu taxes on plastics, financial taxes, carbon cap taxes and digital taxes.
the european parliament had already called for the adoption of several new revenue sources prior to the negotiations, such as the common consolidated corporate tax base, the taxation of digital services, the financial transaction tax, the revenue from the emissions trading scheme, the contribution of plastics and the mechanism to offset the carbon intensity of imported consumer goods.
the agenda includes the report by mr nikos androulakis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1313/2013/eu on a union civil protection mechanism (com ((2020) 0220 - c9-0160/2020 - 2020/0097 ((cod)) (a9-0148/2020).
the commission welcomes the report by the committee on the environment, which recognises the impact of strengthening the mechanism’s response capability through direct procurement of specific items by the european commission, so that we can better support the member states in case of need.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to present to you today my report on emissions from shipping.
there is no pricing of greenhouse gases or emission reduction targets.
shipping is not explicitly mentioned in either the kyoto protocol or the paris agreement, although emissions from the sector are expected to increase by 50% between 2018 and 2050. and already today, maritime transport to and from ports in the european union emits 138 megatons of co2 annually.
this is 3.7% of the eu's climate-related emissions.
we know this because the eu adopted the mrv regulation in 2015. from 2018, all ships above 5000 gross registered tonnes, regardless of who owns them, whose flag they fly, or for whom they operate, will be required to report their co2 emissions when using eu ports.
the commission put forward a proposal last year to bring the reporting systems closer together, but unfortunately it missed the opportunity to move from counting to reducing emissions.
the commission's proposal is therefore supplemented by two important amendments: first, maritime transport will be included in the ets as of january 2022. this will, for the first time, provide an incentive to reduce co2 emissions from ships.
there is already a comprehensive impact assessment, and it shows that this would reduce emissions from the sector by more than twenty percent.
we are now putting forward a proposal which not only generates own resources for the eu budget - which should make mr hahn very happy - but also creates a fund for research and development of climate-friendly ships and for the financing of marine protected areas.
this sector can thus contribute to increasing the climate targets for 2030, which we are negotiating in the climate act.
if transport volumes remain the same, this measure alone would close 10 percent of the gap we have if we increase climate targets by 2030. we also want to do a few things, such as extending the monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions to include the extremely climate-damaging methane, which is increasingly used in lng ships, and where there are already studies showing that methane emissions have increased massively from maritime transport.
we call on the commission to take action to ensure that we have zero emissions in ports.
i think we have to take responsibility and reduce emissions in all areas as quickly as possible.
in the efficiency target, we talk about the fact that by 2030, the fleet's emissions have to be 40% below the fleet average the fleet average today.
this is a milestone in the normalization of georgia's domestic political environment, which we all look forward to and hope to see in fair and clean elections.
but instead of giving in to the desires of exxon mobile, eni or total, fair, sustainable political solutions should be found - which are also central to the cyprus question.
by more national sovereignty surrender, more spending, more climate policy and, of course, more migration.
it goes without saying that the eu does not contribute even 10% to global co2 emissions.
to grow, the eu needs to take on ambitious projects in the fields of digitalisation, education and training, and environmental protection.
europe must provide solutions for sustainable and equitable development at european level.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
coronavirus, climate change, digitalisation or migration only together will we overcome the current crises and challenges and make europe fit for the future.
– madam president, i would like to follow suit with my colleague and i would like request a referral back to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for entering into interinstitutional negotiations.
i hope that the final vote will carry too, as this is a very important topic if we look at the co2 emissions from maritime transport.
it is time to finally respond in a sustainable way, for europe to respond in a sustainable way, because the refugee policy will become even more rigorous.
this is not sustainable, this is suicide.
since 2017, mozambique has been in a constant state of insecurity and has suffered from terrorist attacks by the so—called al—shabaab and one climate—related natural disaster after the other.
mozambique, a country beset by climate disasters, unrest, military violence and a lack of democracy.
the eu-africa strategy and the upcoming eu-au summit provide an opportunity to discuss security, sustainable development and concrete scenarios for international cooperation and societal progress as equal partners.
normally, i would be asking at this point on behalf of the id group for a postponement of the vote on the climate bill.
i therefore have only one complaint at the moment, namely that the vote on the european climate law has been postponed until tomorrow, and i would ask that this be noted in the minutes.
the reason is that despite obvious legal deficiencies, the relevant envi committee voted on the amendments to the climate law on 10 september.
however, the vote on the climate law was put on the agenda by the conference of presidents, despite being informed of the events.
our forests can play a significant role in the fight against the climate crisis, we know that, but they are also currently victims of climate change.
the forestry of the future must be thought through and through with the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy, because timber from species-rich forests that form deep, humus-rich soils have the best long-term carbon footprint imaginable.
on the other hand, dry forests and plantations that are constantly hit by drought, storms and bark beetles have a miserable carbon footprint in the long run.
wood is an excellent carbon sink -- we've heard that -- which is why we should also use this valuable raw material in durable products, in wood construction or in high-quality furniture.
the industrial process and the burning of extra-forested areas, on the other hand, is a climate policy disaster.
but our forests are also the most important resource we have in the fight against climate change.
this means that ecological, social and economic factors must be balanced - protecting and benefiting.
we need a proven sustainable forestry in europe.
if you want climate-resilient forests, you have to allow sick trees to be replaced by new, locally adapted trees.
my appeal to the commission is that the positive functions of sustainable forest management must be communicated more intensively, because the low-carbon forest is fundamental and therefore the miracle weapon of our green future in europe.
unfortunately, not everyone understands this: our forests are primarily habitats, carbon sinks, natural air-conditioning systems, which are already under enormous stress from climate change, and they need to be protected.
today the european environment agency has published that even the forests protected under natura 2000 are in bad condition for over 80% of the time, because of the lack of protection plans, the lack of implementation of management plans and the lack of action against violations.
instead of continuing to fuel the myth of climate-neutral biomass combustion - in the true sense of the word - as is sometimes done here, we should follow the science.
it says: protect old forests, set stringent, verifiable criteria for truly sustainable forest management and fight illegal logging.
i would therefore ask you to vote in favour of the alternative proposal from the environment committee for a truly sustainable use of forests.
the forest is not only an important ally in the fight against the climate crisis, but also its victim.
unsurprisingly, this year's environment agency report on the state of nature concludes that the eu is so far failing to halt this loss.
it reduces our forests to an economic factor, and it turns the vague concept of sustainable forest management into a magic formula for just about everything.
the report by the committee on the environment, which was tabled as an amendment, proposes a forestry strategy which brings the role of forests in the european economy into line with the green deal.
we're making the climate-warning forest fit for the future, and that's our job.
the european climate law: the commission says it is the centrepiece of a - now it is called quite shamelessly by the name - complete transformation not only of our economy but of our whole society.
in future, no law should be passed without first considering whether it might not be in conflict with that particular climate law.
instead of creating a stable legal framework for a thriving economy, a complacent, factually-free emergency-jammerelite is out-performing itself with 'ambitious' targets: 40, 55, or 60% greenhouse gas reduction, preferably a little more.
as if there were no chemistry or physics, they talk about improving air quality by reducing greenhouse gases and they do not mention that the so-called co2-free mantle of renewable energy stinks, not only when it comes to the catastrophic mining conditions far away of lithium, cobalt, manganese and co. the emperor is naked, ladies and gentlemen, and no one is looking.
she is from the saami culture from sweden and the culture is based on the cultivation of reindeer, but the reindeer are on the verge of getting extinct due to the climate crisis.
we can vote today to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees by reducing our toxic co2 emissions by 65%.
we are the first generation to suffer from the climate crisis, but we are also the last generation to stop it.
so let’s start listening to science, let’s give hope to the younger generation, and let’s stop this climate crisis.
with the climate act, we have the great task of laying the foundation of the green deal.
our proposal is a huge improvement on the commission's proposal with an eu greenhouse gas budget that clearly shows how much emissions the eu is allowed to emit in the coming years, an independent climate council that provides scientific guidance and advice.
the question of how much more ambition we should have on the road to climate neutrality will then become a hot topic in this house.
for the first time, it mentions a net target which takes into account the positive climate performance of forests.
but it's important to save today to avoid climate tipping points and climate damage tomorrow.
according to climate science, that's a target of about 65 percent.
it is also possible if we stop playing the employment and climate game and start making the necessary changes.
so it's important now to get going and get the right tools in place, because we don't have time to waste.
madam president, you can see the stripes representing global warming on my mask and i must say to you, please fight every crisis.
fight the corona crisis, but fight the climate crisis with as much enthusiasm.
for example, setting up ecological barriers at borders targeting mainly us products or simply banning certain companies from entering the european market, as trump has been able to do with tiktok.
the wirecard case illustrates one thing above all: the particular challenge of concentrated criminal energy, which is mainly tackled by means of the prosecution rather than by means of the financial supervisory authorities.
if we read today that a bank in austria has been playing the regulators for over 30 years with criminal energy, it shows that we do not have a problem of supervision, but a problem of how we can use regulatory rules to detect criminal schemes.
i repeat: wherever criminal energy is used, we will be unable to really master this problem with tick boxes - with forms where you check whether something has been completed.
we also proposed a pilot regime for market operators to test innovations in a safe and controlled environment.
let me just name a few: helping large investors to invest more in eu businesses, including for the long term; making information on eu companies more easily accessible – digitally – for eu and non-eu investors by using a single access point; helping europeans to save safely for their future, for them to buy the best and cheapest financial products and so that their pensions are adequate and sustainable.
suddenly, according to the commission's sustainability criteria, everything is going digital: healthcare, education, the world of work, environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
if we are to truly lead in sustainable finance and digitalisation, it is also essential to increase the integrity of capital markets.
the results of this round of voting are as follows: european climate law (commission proposal as amended): adopted; european climate law (referral back to committee): adopted; equalisation of field inspections of cereal seed-producing stocks in ukraine and of cereal seed produced in ukraine (commission proposal): adopted; objection under article 112 (2), (3) and (4) (c): specifications for titanium dioxide (e 171): accepted; objection under article 112 (2), (3) and (4) (c): maximum levels for acrylamide in certain foods for infants and young children: adopted; european forestry strategy future action (resolution as a whole): adopted; commission proposal on the application of railway safety and interoperability rules in the channel tunnel amendments nos 1, 2 and 3: adopted; commission proposal for a decision authorising france to conclude an international agreement on the channel tunnel amendments nos 1, 2 and 3: adopted; motion for a resolution: rule of law and fundamental rights in bulgaria amendments nos 3d and 35d: rejected; amendment no 36 is rejected.
artificial intelligence must serve european priorities, and this is the european green deal at the moment, first and foremost, because our most urgent task is still climate protection.
if artificial intelligence changes human habitat beyond recognition and destroys our climate, then the technology has failed.
in frankfurt alone, 20% of energy costs are generated by data centres.
no ai technology without fundamental rights and environmental protection.
nineteen pages explain how the farmer should improve environmental and climate performance.
the main priority, the commission said, was to set more ambitious climate targets and, contrary to what it said, it wanted to get more and more into national agricultural policies and demanded that member states adopt strategic plans.
the only thing he is not allowed to do is produce food, because the commission believes that this is responsible for the extinction of species and pollution of the environment.
but this money for big change is needed to support farmers who want to do more animal welfare, more biodiversity, more climate protection and less intensive practices on the ground.
for me it’s all in for the union and for the climate, and i think that the youth want that from us, they want to see passion and commitment for the planet.
they see delay tactics at the expense of our climate and of their future.
the heads of state of europe cannot come to an agreement on climate politics.
therefore, i ask you, the german presidency, don’t shy away any more from your responsibility on the climate and the postponement of climate action.
and if you can’t deliver, just give climate policy back to the normal democratic legislative procedure because we are ready and why aren’t you?
but the destruction of forests, the green lungs of our planet, home to 80 percent of rural biodiversity and one of our strongest allies in the fight against climate change, is not only an ecological disaster, it is also a social one, because the destruction of forests is often the cause and consequence of human rights violations.
where human rights violations or environmental damage are part of a supply chain, despite the influence of a company, european companies should be able to be held liable for these damages under civil law and to pay compensation.
people need to be sure that their assets are not being used to finance activities that are destructive to the environment and violate human rights.
we've made a lot of progress on the environment committee.
as europeans, we are sadly jointly responsible every day for deforestation, for an incredible loss of biodiversity, for speeding up climate change, and for harming the rights of indigenous people – for example, when we simply order a ham sandwich at the station, and so maybe consume meat from animals fed with soy planted on illegally—logged forest soil.
and of course, we're also facing the ultimate adversary -- climate change.
we're learning that climate change is particularly bad for women, because it's affecting women and girls in particular.
and what about climate change?
ladies and gentlemen, the energy union could have been, or could be, a project that would bring the benefits of eu-wide cooperation between member states to the attention of citizens and that would finally take the wind out of the sails of the critics of the brussels moloch, myself for example.
security of supply, efficiency and sustainability have been the three-pronged energy policy of recent decades, and indeed these terms are naturally also found within the energy union project.
the frequency of near-blackouts has also increased rapidly in recent years, with the increase in the green energy that was previously mentioned.
and what about the much-vaunted sustainability?
this produces up to 4 million tonnes of waste, some of which is toxic and difficult to dispose of.
the same is true for solar energy, where we can expect to see about 2.6 million tons of scrap by 2035. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to focus on the role of renewable energy: we have three pieces of good news, which are also in your report.
firstly, renewables now provide more than 20% of final energy in the european union.
but: member states' enlargement targets are absolutely not enough to reduce our emissions sufficiently by 2030, and that is why we need a huge joint effort.
and so i ask you, mrs simson, here today, please ensure that the rights for citizens' energy enshrined in the clean energy package are implemented quickly and effectively in all member states.
then we have a real energy union, unleashing renewables, democratizing energy supply, securing local value creation and achieving our climate goals.
the green deal, for example, through the carbon border adjustment mechanism or, as we have just heard today, through the withdrawal from the ect.
– mr president, whenever i speak to citizens about the energy charter treaty they are shocked.
the energy charter treaty allows investors to bring eu member states in front of private arbitration panels because those governments want to fulfil the requirements of the paris agreement.
the energy charter treaty makes governments pay billions of taxpayers’ money just because they want to fight the climate crisis and implement the green deal.
yes, it does, but it is the truth and the energy charter treaty is the embodiment of a fossil era that has to come to an end.
yes, the sunset clause is bad; it protects investment for another 20 years if we leave the energy charter treaty now.
we have to fight all the crises, and the biggest crisis is still the climate crisis.
and although this budget decision, which we shall be adopting in a few weeks' time, will not solve everything, we have succeeded in making binding the incorporation of important instruments in the budgetary objective: the principle of harm prevention, a binding biodiversity quota, which will lead to biodiversity not simply being taken more into account in the budget, but to nature conservation becoming a budgetary objective in its own right.
this budgetary package represents european solidarity in action with the countries most affected by covid, but also solidarity between generations, since we are investing a large part of this package in climate protection, but also solidarity with the people most affected by the crisis, namely women.
and in this health program, which is very good, i miss the consistent approach of "health", because only in a healthy environment are there healthy people.
and i urge you to finally work towards incorporating environmental criteria into good manufacturing practice (gmp), which is the norm worldwide.
written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr siegfried mureşan and mr paul tang, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the 'investment plan for a sustainable europe: financing the green deal' (2020/2058 (ini)) (a9-0198/2020).
so we shouldn't be so afraid of climate change.
climate change is a fact, not a question, and it's always been there.
and i would rather trust these promises of god than the utopian promises of today's climate religion.
i have to say, madam president, to stop the climate crisis, we need to change the economic rules of the game.
we all know that our current financial and economic system is increasing resource consumption and exacerbating the climate crisis.
it is therefore right that we will include clear climate targets and a binding biodiversity quota in the eu budget.
we must stop investing in climate change.
airports, motorways, large fossil fuel infrastructure projects and climate-damaging agriculture - all need to be put to the test.
i have to say, madam president, the green deal is an ambitious economic programme for a social-ecological change in europe for the climate, for the environment and for people.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe, including the just transition mechanism, aims to link sustainable social economies with the paris climate goals.
the eu taxonomy regulation provides clear guidelines on what is sustainable, and we have a good, scalable tool.
in january, the commission proposed its plan to finance the green deal to achieve a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. for something as complex as climate change, it would cost the comfortable round number of 1 trillion euros.
the conclusion, unfortunately, is very simple: we use far too many resources, and we produce far too much waste.
we're fueling global warming with it.
they have contributed the least and suffer the most from global warming and pollution.
let us make sure that it also becomes the greenest, most sustainable and most innovative single market in the world, and that it radiates beyond the brussels effect and even beyond the borders of europe.
consumers are overwhelmingly more likely to buy sustainable products, as numerous studies show.
a mandatory label on the longevity of products could make it easier for these consumers to make choices and become sustainability actors.
let us lay the foundations today for the creation of the largest sustainable single market in the world.
we are all the single market, and together we can take responsibility for a responsible future, for the economic and ecological foundations of life for our own and future generations.
instead of demonizing economic growth, we should look at how we can create new, more sustainable growth.
let's make sustainability possible through innovation!
i think most of the speakers in this debate have shown that, of course, we want to make more sustainable products and the internal market in europe.
this would be one example where we can cut red tape, and then we can also create new requirements for businesses and consumers in the area of sustainability.
the climate crisis is more urgent than ever and to empower consumers to make the most sustainable choices is something that we have to urgently do.
with a proper right to repair and mandatory labelling we can make the consumers become agents of sustainable change.
we believe that those who receive billions in aid from the state have a special responsibility for the climate and their customers.
and particularly when you mentioned the climate crisis, as one of the colleagues did: this is integral to what we’re trying to do.
publicly, i have said very loudly that we will not allow covid to take our eye off the issue of addressing climate change.
the challenge is greater for us, and therefore i think the challenge for our institutions is to work very effectively, so that even with the covid-19 public health crisis, which we are not out of yet, we will legislate effectively and deal with the climate emergency, the biodiversity challenge, the environmental difficulties.
the text makes industry the victim and the enforcer of a misunderstood environmental idea under the european green deal.
this is reflected in the irrational demand for an immediate end to the use of fossil fuels, the characterisation of natural gas as a temporary energy source until 2050 and the ecb's political positioning as a 'climate bank'.
the destruction of our industry has a system; you just forget in your so-called strategy that it is industry and smes that have to pay the bill for your climate fantasies.
i want a union that responds, that provides answers, that takes the concerns of its citizens seriously, a union that strives to reconcile security and freedom, sustainability and growth, self-responsibility and social responsibility, a union that has a claim to shape, that is aware of its weaknesses and that strives every day to turn them into strengths.
let us not waste this legislative chance, let us try to improve the electoral law.
the chinese have a word for it: baizuo, a derogatory term for hypocritical western humanitarians who are all about immigration, lgbtq, and climate change, without any knowledge of the real issues, just to satisfy a sense of moral superiority.
but so far they are blind on the environment and the climate, they are quite weak on human rights, this is what we need to change and this is why the trade policy review is so timely.
a quarter of worldwide co2 emissions are linked to trade.
we need to make urgently all trade, whether multilateral or bilateral, climate proof.
we need a climate supremacy clause, rules to phase out fossil fuels subsidies and clear co2 reduction commitments.
the eu is proud of its sustainability chapters.
meanwhile, china is leading the world's largest free trade pact with no provisions on climate, environment or labour rights.
we need to reform the wto as the heart of multilateralism, work with a president biden to renew the transatlantic friendship, ratify ceta, discuss climate ambitions with mercosur, push forward negotiations with australia and new zealand, and expand partnerships with african countries.
to do this, free trade agreements must include clear provisions on the paris agreement on climate change and strengthen human rights.
what would true leaders do to give their citizens what they need most – prosperity and a healthy environment?
but as long as the problem is not solved in a sustainable way, and as long as the polarization between the two sections of the island's population continues, because nationalist forces are also fueling it, erdoğan has every opportunity to provoke.
a joint tourism sector, cooperation in energy and security, joint research on the coronavirus vaccine: this is the future.
so a climate of impunity for crimes against journalism is as if we switch that light off and wander in darkness.
two months ago, we in the european parliament passed the most ambitious climate legislation ever.
second, we take the climate crisis seriously.
now it's even in the air that they won't agree to a climate target at their december meeting.
and the people who voted for us on climate change, they don't want to wait any longer.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat climate change.
to get out of this crisis, we need solidarity at european level, but we also need to all move in the same direction, towards sustainable and modern development.
the most relevant debates were the response to the covid-19 pandemic, climate change, the fight against terrorism and violent extremism, the situation in the eastern mediterranean and relations with turkey, the eu's relations with the countries of the southern neighbourhood, the eu's trade policy.
thank you, mrs kyriakides, for this strategy and thank you for including our green demands for environmental aspects in the production and use of pharmaceuticals in your strategy.
europeans should lead europe themselves, and they should be in charge of their own energy security, for example.
i feel that a statement such as 'i am ready to lead the world if the american congress simultaneously passes a law on european energy security' is more of a threat than a promise.
the main industrial and commercial goods of the 21st century are technology and energy.
what we are seeing is that the united states is currently - in violation of international law, through third-country sanctions - putting pressure on european countries and the eu to decide where we get our energy from - from them, through liquefied natural gas - and to decide where we get our technology - not in china.
we should impose separate sanctions on the energy and chemical sector.
because without a shift to rail, we will not be able to achieve the climate targets we have set.
around one third of all co2 emissions in the eu come from the transport sector.
there is no doubt about it: climate-friendly rail must be the backbone of the sustainable transport transformation of the future.
rail now plays a prominent role in the commission's new sustainable and smart mobility strategy and this is important.
and we know that we are in danger of slipping into even more uncertain times with the climate crisis.
the commission is also proposing to develop a green rail label, which will allow the railway to identify the goods and their carbon footprint at a glance.
how can toll systems help us achieve our goals, our climate goals and generate funds for the rail sector?
but let's think about it in a way that we can all work together to create a desire for conscious, sustainable and climate-friendly travel.
i am very happy about this year of the railway, because the railway is a means of transport with a future and potential, and not just from the point of view of climate protection.
i have the impression that many, many colleagues in this room are spending their energy looking at how to make other modes of transport worse, rather than looking at how to make the railway better.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not small and medium-sized enterprises in europe need the best framework and support to be resilient, competitive and sustainable.
now, in the midst of the coronavirus and climate crisis, small and medium-sized enterprises are absolutely central to building, and that's why we urgently need an eu sme strategy that tries to make the green deal look like a stimulus program, and that's also a huge opportunity.
we need a modern sme strategy that clearly puts the green deal at the heart of a sustainable social economy in europe.
i am pleased that we were able to secure more than half of the funds to be targeted on sustainable and digital investments in the future and on youth placement.
the overall spending is not climate-just enough, it is not social enough, and it’s definitely not european enough.
the truth is that, after these 25 years, the objectives are also far away and we have added new challenges to the old ones: new conflicts in libya and syria, the increase in inequality, the migration and refugee crisis and climate change - i would like to recall that the mediterranean will be the second most affected area in the world after the arctic - all challenges that we want to address from the respect for the 2030 agenda as a guide and a map to address them.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the following: the request for an oral reply to the council on the recommendation of the council on vocational training and further education for sustainable competitiveness, social justice and resilience by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, maria walsh, marianne vind, ilana cicurel, elena lizzi, kim vanrent sparak and anna zalewska, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000068/2020 b90027/20) (2020/2767(rsp)) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the recommendation of the council on vocational training and further education for sustainable competitiveness, social justice and further education for sustainable competitiveness, social justice and resilience by lucia ďuriš nicholsonová, maria walsh, marianne vind, ilana vind, ilana cicurel, elena lizzi, kim vanrent sparak and anna zalewska, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000068/2020 b90027/20) (2020/2727 ((rsp)).
the council has only adopted the important recommendations on vocational training for sustainable competitiveness, social justice and resilience a few weeks ago, and there is also a particular obligation for us as the european union to act, because under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, everyone has the right to education and to access to vocational training and continuing training.
the commission’s strategic guidance for the recovery and resilience facility laid out in the annual sustainable growth strategy proposes upskilling and re-skilling as one of the flagship initiatives of the facility.
one of the challenges is the digital challenge, the ecological challenge and also the demographic challenge.
it is also an opportunity to create a sustainable green future.
and it also has a bonus, because a better working environment is created when both sexes are represented in the workplace.
for the first time, 30% of the budget is to be invested in climate.
the eu's environmental policy is to be a binding budgetary objective and the entire eu budget should be climate-friendly.
the climate goals will stop being made up.
make sure that climate and biodiversity quotas are turned into concrete projects.
the increased climate action endorsed by the european council will further undermine our prosperity, on which our social benefits are based.
this policy is putting the brakes on energy-intensive industries and accelerating deindustrialization.
according to a study presented in september 2020 by the german chamber of industry and commerce, these new requirements will lead to a further tightening of the european emissions trading system.
the high co2 prices have a big impact on industrial companies, which are part of this emissions trading system.
so there is a risk of loss for these companies in germany and europe and greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced but only shifted.
eu climate policy is responsible for the loss of thousands of jobs in industry.
negotiations also shifted from dynamic realignment to rules that would allow brussels to offset high eu costs, imposed by future eu climate change standards, not applicable in the uk.
may i therefore remind the eu that trade deals are about trade and mutual advantage and not about climate change or world rescue missions.