instead, let us show the citizens of europe, especially the younger generations, that we politicians can actually work together and that we are factually, proactively, responsibly and results-oriented in tackling the climate challenge.
this is at the expense of the climate, the environment and the wage earners.
instead, we need an equal democratic cooperation that puts citizens, nature and the climate at the centre.
but the climate challenge requires that the many green technologies being developed, especially by smes, be brought up quickly to a level where they can make the difference they can make to the climate outside the eu and thus to european competitiveness.
the green paper on the environment, which is the subject of the debate, is a very important document, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it.
a project with the potential to supply around 20% of the eu's energy consumption.
this is despite the fact that gas is an important source of energy in the transition to a fossil-free future.
the fourth pci list is an important step towards a sustainable future with security of supply and green jobs.
our food has to meet many requirements: it has to be healthy, it has to be nutritious, it has to be produced sustainably, and it has to be climate-friendly.
can the commission inform me whether the strategy will include measures which will make it easier for our consumers to see how our food is produced, whether it is climate friendly and whether animal welfare and health are intact?
i think it is absolutely crucial that we focus on making all farming in the eu sustainable and not focus on size.
just as we sometimes liken the climate to the lungs that are supposed to provide our children and grandchildren with a planet that we may be familiar with giving them.
these lungs, europe's small and mediumsized enterprises and the climate, need a strong heart, a heart that keeps production and innovation going in the workplace and brings bread to the table of millions of families, a heart that keeps the exchange of goods going between businesses and their customers, a heart that creates the economy to research and develop what we need or buy the mouthwashes we need.
only in this way can we implement and disseminate, in particular, the climate initiatives and solutions that the planet needs and that the rest of the world will look to the eu to learn from and, not least, to buy from, even after the acute phase of the corona crisis has been overcome.
the climate and the environment are about to be destroyed!
here too, the eu has a very special role as a 'first mover' for sustainable plant protection products.
that is why we are now presenting you with a resolution calling for you to present a chemical strategy for sustainability as soon as possible.
european companies are inventing more and more sustainable plant protection products for the benefit of the environment and public health, but registration is slowing down, and so the new, environmentally friendly solutions are not reaching farmers, either in europe or in the rest of the world, and that is simply not right!
we owe it to the planet and the mouths to be fed, but also to our innovative farmers, who are often blamed for the stressed conditions of the environment.
and what is being added now could actually result in a reduction of at least 40% by 2030. perhaps we could have gone higher, but where we are now, we are already there, where we have taken some long strong nautical miles in respect of shipping being an international industry where the eu does not dictate everything, but has an important role in pulling the whole of the world's shipping into the right course for our collective climate.
climate action is urgently needed and must be taken quickly if we are to avoid the crisis spiraling out of control.
commission president, listen to the youth, listen to the climate movement, listen to the science and take the necessary climate action now.
there is an eu elite that for years has neglected to make our external borders secure, that has spent energy fighting our national border controls instead.
others need to spend more time on individual issues, while others need to be more ambitious, especially on climate.
so thank you for giving more impetus to a 2030 climate target well above 55%, but unfortunately you did not describe a proactive and effective penalty fund that better fits the inviolable principles of the rule of law in the eu.
the climate law is a big part of the green transition over the next 30 years.
the left supports an ambitious target of a 65% reduction for all member states by 2030. i've been a senior member of the agriculture committee and i helped write the climate bill.
agriculture, environment and climate are complementary, not opposite.
we also need common standards to measure the climate footprint of farmers through a common assessment of a climate change account.
my proposal on food safety is in the report of the committee on the environment.
but that's just not how the world is designed, and especially not the challenges of climate change.
the eu's climate law is therefore more than a single figure that has been too much in the debate, namely the 2030 reduction target.
so i am frankly ashamed that we have not focused more on the tools, for example the proposal for sector-specific and cross-border strategic climate partnerships for companies and researchers, who can find role models and savings here to make the latest technologies flourish more and faster.
i am working to ensure that agricultural policy sets the stage for the next many years of struggle for the climate, the environment and biodiversity.
the model ensures that we get more nature, more biodiversity and simpler rules.
we need to grow more than grain, grass and corn, we also need to grow biodiversity and climate.
we must therefore ensure that there is coherence between the cap and the climate law.
in the committee on agriculture, i am responsible for the climate law which we voted on earlier this month, where i proposed a focus in the cap on farming, that is to say, absorbing and storing co2 in the soil.
i hope you all will vote for a more sustainable future.
a future where farmers are brought into the climate fight.
the eu must lead the way, and only in this way will we achieve the common goal of climate neutrality by 2050.
mr. chairman, i have to ask you... oh, my god.
because it's one of my ways of contributing to the climate, and so meatless diet actually fits my body really well, which is in menopause.
i refuse to give in to a climate fundamentalist and actually make life easier for lazy marketing departments in food companies who want to secure new market shares because we consumers have started to question the carbon footprint of traditional products in the single market.
thank you very much to you, klára dobrev, for doing a really great job on this report and making sure that the european parliament has a strong social and sustainable voice on this issue.
we are in the midst of three serious crises: a global pandemic that has claimed millions of lives, an economic crisis that means millions of people have lost their jobs, and a climate crisis that requires urgent action if climate change is not to get out of control completely.
that's probably the phrase we've worked the hardest on in 2020. because even though we know that this is life in general, the coronavirus crisis has cast a heavy shadow over our already many challenges with brexit, climate, migration pressures and trade wars.
i would therefore like to stress that the budget gives greater leverage to the crossborder challenges, in particular climate change, the pressure on the external borders and our ability to match the united states and china in research, which cannot be tolerated with a thrifty neck.
in line with the gut-wrenching ideals of identity politics that are "woke" around the clock, when we have enough to do to deliver concrete results for the climate and against the corona, etc.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
namely, the contribution of water to co2 reduction through energy efficiency improvements in the water sector.
the potential for energy efficiency improvements in the water sector is, to put it bluntly, 25 percent.
energy efficiency in the water sector is not a drop in the bucket.
we are the sector that has been most affected by climate change, but we are also the sector that is enabling the green transition.
we need to help our consumers make the sustainable and climate-friendly choices when they're standing at the counter.
mr president, we need skilled craftsmen to renew our homes to combat climate change.