madam president, i am deeply sorry for what has happened in australia, the devastating situation, which gives us yet another lesson about climate change.
let's not make climate change easy.
and let's put in place realistic prevention strategies for this coming climate change.
the scale and virulence of the australian fires, which in many cases have led to loss of control, made it appropriate for a parliamentary debate to address the devastating effects of climate change and extreme phenomenology and other environmental and international issues.
we socialists are aware that climate change is real and that we must continue to fight against it.
the debate is another call to meet international climate commitments.
it is not acceptable that there are countries that do not comply with the paris agreement or that there are political leaders who deny climate change or ignore its consequences.
we are facing a climate and ecological crisis.
but also for an important issue, and young people have set a good example for us with climate action.
we therefore need a strong commitment from the commission to implement this model in all member states, with sufficient budgetary allocation and the inclusion of homelessness as an ambitious target in the social indicators table of the sustainable half-year.
for example, promoting new technologies and digitisation in rural areas through high-capacity networks, or also focusing on sustainable growth and development models and on stimulating and incentivising population.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the right track with this investment plan for sustainability, with this fund for just transition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a trillion dollars of investment for the sustainable development of europe over the next ten years: this is the important objective that the commission is presenting today for a europe that is climate neutral by 2050 and increasingly socially inclusive.
first, finally a fund with resources dedicated to making the transition socially equitable, because we have to attack climate change but also avoid leaving anyone behind, especially in sectors that will face major industrial conversions, because sustainability has to be for everyone to be achieved.
secondly, it is important to note that the investment plan explicitly refers to the opening of a discussion on the exclusion of sustainable investment from the deficit calculation in the stability pact in the member states.
to maintain a high level of ambition on key issues such as environmental sustainability, while at the same time reaching out to those at risk of being left behind in society.
focusing on environmental sustainability and social inclusion are the keys to getting european citizens excited again.
sustainability is a principle, it's a goal.
but sustainability, like crises, is always paid for by the weakest; it cannot be that sustainability and the path to it, transition and change, are paid for again by the weakest and most vulnerable, because we are here to make europe more sustainable, but also more just.
and there are some who, in front of sustainability, put some concepts and some ideas that forget that there are people behind it.
thank you, mr. vice president, for introducing the sustainable investment plan and the just transition fund to us today.
and so that criterion of conditionality, of getting off coal and really committing to climate neutrality, must be an essential component.
i think it's a great vision that we become climate neutral in europe.
madam president, i come from a country, france, where the citizens have put on a yellow vest to tell us that the ecological transition must be fair and that is why it is essential that today, the first political act proposed by the european commission, after presenting its european green deal, be precisely the just transition fund, so that no european citizen or territory is left behind, so that risks are turned into opportunities.
i would like to say to the colleagues on the far right who are shouting one after another, saying 'this is unbearable, it will cost us far too much': ask the people of venice whether they think it is very expensive to fight climate change, whether we are doing too much or not enough.
ask australians today if they think we are doing too much globally to tackle climate change or if doing nothing or not doing enough is costing them a lot of money and is destroying their continent.
for months, the yellow vests have been taking to the streets of france to protest climate policy.
please note that only 2% of the country's energy mix is coal-based.
polish energy mix is close to 80%, so what are the costs of this climate policy, so restrictive for the polish people?
is just climate change going to be about the people being ignored by the government?
i particularly support it because in countries like poland the starting point is different, and i welcomed the fact that poland did not block the goal of carbon neutrality in europe in december.
madam president, commissioners, the european union has rightly taken an ambitious position on climate change and the environment.
particular attention should be paid to the completion of cross-border energy networks and the development of clean technologies.
madam president, first of all i would like to welcome the vice-presidents of the commission and thank mr timmermans for the reference to my region, asturias, a region in northern spain which has been suffering for decades; firstly, in the 1980s we faced the necessary adjustment after the oil crisis of the 1970s, and now we face a new challenge to respond to the fight against climate change.
in my region, as in the whole of europe, we are aware of the need to combat climate change, but we are also aware, as socialists, that this process must be a structured, balanced process and that it must guarantee equality for all citizens in europe.
and i would ask the commission to do the same with the same speed to have a border adjustment for carbon the sooner the better.
commissioner frans timmermans, at a hearing in the environment committee, when asked about the future of poland's mining regions, said that as the grandson of two miners, he knew it would be painful.
a moment ago, one of the members praised the european emissions trading system, and is it based on a just transition, given the diverse energy mix?
commissioner, does the commission have a calculation of the costs of climate change?
how much will it cost poland, whose energy mix is 80% coal-based?
we need time and money, like poland, to achieve climate neutrality.
ursula von der leyen said that climate policy can leave no one behind.
political agreements reached in favour of environmental protection cannot cause irreparable damage to our economy and our citizens.
concrete plans and programmes promoting training, employment, innovation and the search for a competitive alternative energy source.
the ecological transition is a necessity that brings with it opportunities but also challenges: regions like mine, with energy-intensive businesses, need european support to change their production model and do so in a fair way, leaving no one behind.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal.
it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc.
the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require.
the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change.
the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure that this is the case during the implementation of all the proposals and measures contained in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund.
we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal.
it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc.
the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require.
the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change.
the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure that this is the case during the implementation of all the proposals and measures contained in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund.
we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the financial arm for implementing the green deal.
it is also a response to citizens who have called for a roadmap to make the eu the first climate-neutral bloc.
the just transition fund should also address the wider impact on regions and industries that are highly dependent on carbon and fossil fuels of the paradigm shift that climate neutrality will require.
the path to climate neutrality is a complicated one and the just transition fund is here to cushion the difficulties of this change.
the socialists have advocated that the transition be fair and not create more inequalities, and we will ensure that this is the case during the implementation of all the proposals and measures contained in the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the just transition fund.
we are aware of the need to mobilise resources to reduce emissions and renew the necessary infrastructure.
we continue to believe that a sustainable resolution of the crisis can only arise from genuine negotiation that leads to an inclusive and representative negotiated electoral path.
first of all, i would like to thank the scientists and the activists for their efforts in the fight against climate change, but also for the protection of biodiversity worldwide.
the ecological transition, ladies and gentlemen, has to be fair.
secondly, environmental taxation.
this is the planet that the species, human beings, are on and that we live on and therefore, also from the point of view of our species, we have to help the planet in protecting biodiversity.
it is very important that the resolution that comes out tomorrow is powerful to go to china with a strong and united voice in protecting biodiversity.
in latin america, with lawfare, with different direct attacks on different people, defenders of the territory and the environment.
it is precisely for this reason that it is time for europe to embark on a relationship with foreign policy objectives aligned with the interests of the african people, focused on human rights, sustainable development and democracy.
3d printing of course has many different approaches, but it's obvious that it can help us, even from the point of view of saving materials, from the point of view of less pollution.
gloria has had an unprecedented ecological and agricultural impact, and this is clearly a consequence of the effects of climate change.
we must abandon the traditional paternalistic eurocentrism and incorporate indigenous peoples into contemporary debates and global decision-making, for example on climate change.
madam president, madam commissioner, the revision of the ten-t regulation will be one of the fundamental pillars of the next strategy for sustainable mobility and transport and it must be aligned with the new objectives of the green pact.
this requires specific legislative proposals to strengthen railways, to promote more efficient and sustainable freight and passenger transport, for which the promotion of multimodality is essential, and to improve interconnection with ports, airports, logistics platforms, urban nodes, island regions and also rural areas.
and strong funding instruments are also needed, such as the next cef, where already 60% of its allocation is allocated to actions promoting sustainable and smart mobility.
we are talking about an extremely sensitive area from an environmental point of view.
this strike is inspired by the large mobilizations of pensioners and the initiative of the community charter of social rights, which advocates building a different socioproductive model, which puts life at the center, giving priority to the care of people and the sustainability of the planet.
madam president, in the face of climate change deniers, spain was hit by the storm gloria, with heavy rains, wind, waves and brutal snowfalls that left thousands of people in my region, aragon, isolated, and whose melting now threatens many populations by the overflowing of the rivers.
madam president, during the elections, but also in the last months as socialists and democrats, we made it clear to the european commission that we want social, economic and environmental change.
that is why we are insisting on a serious policy to reduce pollution, investing in clean industries, energy efficiency, clean transport, the elimination of polluting fuels, ships that no longer dock in ports and airports that pollute far, far less than we do today.
opportunities for a fair, climate-neutral and digital europe, but also a transition that guarantees the rule of law, regulates migration processes, supports trade agreements.
mr president, commissioner, we are of course pleased that the priorities of the commission's work programme for 2020 include the entire green deal, given the climate emergency declared by this parliament itself.
we know that the countries that have contributed the least to global warming and pollution are the countries that are suffering the most from the effects of climate change and the effects of this climate emergency.
other regions of the world have already made progress on how to protect people who are forced to leave their places of origin because of the climate, for example through the kampala convention or the cartagena declaration in latin american countries.
we ask you, commissioner, to make progress in this work programme on how to define and protect people displaced by climate change and to indicate how to move forward with european protection of the figure of the climate refugee.
and the commission's new green deal is a guide to how we can create an alternative and sustainable development model for those living in extreme poverty through green economy projects involving renewable energy.
inventing the wheel a second time will be a waste of time and money.
in order to eradicate energy poverty, which affects 50 million europeans, we call on the commission to propose an action plan with clear targets and directions and to take into account in the impact studies the effects of new legislative proposals on the fight against energy poverty.
unfortunately, i have not seen any mention in the commission's work programme of the carbon border adjustment mechanism, which is important both for european industry and as a source of new funds.
i welcome the fact that in the commission's proposal for the just transition fund, romania is allocated the sum of eur 757 million, or 10% of the eur 7,5 billion for the period 2021-2027. i want you to ensure that the most affected regions and member states get the maximum benefit from the just transition mechanism, to have economic growth and create sustainable jobs.
the programme reflects a positive development in the conceptualisation of the european green deal, notably through a better articulation of the digital and energy transitions, as well as the inclusion of a social dimension, still insufficient but stronger.
– mr president, i think that the topic we are going to discuss now is just clear testimony to the fact that climate change is real, and its impacts are sometimes too real, too dramatic and too devastating.
what happened in spain is, unfortunately, a foretaste of what is to come as a climate change continues.
this is why in recent years, the commissioner has been putting an increasing focus on prevention, climate adaptation and the risk management policies.
for cohesion policy, disaster risk management is vital because local and regional authorities are the first to face the impacts of disasters because it is a cost—effective investment in preventing future losses and also because it contributes to sustainable development.
in this period, 2014—2020 cohesion policy is investing almost eur 8 billion in climate change adaptation and risk prevention.
actions to improve the modelling of risk, early-warning systems, preparation of strategies and guidelines, awareness raising, grey or green infrastructure for flood protection, sustainable land and forest management, et cetera.
the commission’s proposals for cohesion policy after 2020 include disaster risk management and climate adaptation as specific objectives.
we have suffered great natural and economic losses in places necessary for our ecosystem and economy, such as the ebro delta - the only place in europe and the third largest producer of rice in spain - where the growth of the sea has caused, in addition to environmental damage, the disappearance of crops worth more than four million euros; or in places such as the valencian community, where citrus, agricultural infrastructure, seasonal vegetables and livestock have suffered losses of up to 63 million euros; or as the balearic islands, which has lost its beaches, and so many spanish regions affected, such as andalusia, murcia, castilla-la mancha or aragon.
an ambitious green deal, which protects our environment against the effects of climate change, which invests in improving water infrastructure and protecting and cleaning our forests and rivers to prevent future weather events.
and i very much fear that it will not be the last because, certainly, climate change is an unmistakable reality, evidenced in storms like the ones we have suffered in spain.
and thirdly, improving systems for preventing natural disasters and adapting to climate change at all levels.
this climate phenomenon has had an unprecedented ecological and agricultural impact and is a clear consequence of the effects of climate change.
climate change is already having very visible consequences.
today we are asking this parliament for support to activate the solidarity fund for disasters; for a change in the criteria for the funds so that individual country cases are not collected, but the annual global number of cases due to the same cause: climate change; for stronger measures against urban corruption and a determined commitment to implementing policies against the climate emergency.
the effects of climate change are beginning to affect the spanish mediterranean.
let us work together to mitigate the effects of climate change in the less-favoured areas.
the new proposal should create a favourable environment for the emergence of a european entrepreneurial ecosystem, facilitating the entry of new products and services into the market.
i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
a project of enormous economic cost that only guarantees the profit of the lobbies of the oligopoly, and that in no case will solve the energy problem of our country.
i therefore ask you to take up this spirit, this common sense of the young people who are fighting in the streets, and to ensure that public money is allocated to projects that serve to develop our territories in a sustainable way.
it is also sometimes striking to see how countries that do not meet their 2020 renewable targets want to give lessons to those who have, who are, and want to tell us how to do things in the future.
we need to move forward in renewable energy, electrification, smart grid development, sector coupling and, in addition, offshore wind connections.
it is necessary to align with the european union's climate objectives, guaranteeing energy security to the member states and, in addition, working towards neutrality with ambition but also with rigor.
mr president, this is the legislature of the european green deal and also of the just ecological transition.
the sustainable investment plan will need more funds; the just transition fund will need more funds.
the change in the production and economic model, for a truly sustainable change to take place, will require a tax reform.
so, ladies and gentlemen, we now know the challenges and the objectives, but we need more resources, more funds, more precision, more clarity and, above all, a new environmental taxation.
they also raise standards on a broad range of issues, from labour rights to environmental.
but of course, this would require corresponding guarantees on fair competition and the protection of social, environmental and consumer standards.
he recalled everything the united kingdom has achieved in terms of social protection, climate action, competition rules, and i commend the uk for all of that.
indeed, it is not the time to lower social protection or to be lukewarm on climate action.
i have heard ambition on cutting carbon emissions.
as ursula von der leyen has pointed out, together with our british friends, we should aim for a partnership that goes well beyond trade and is unprecedented in scope: everything from climate action to data protection, fisheries to energy, transport to space, financial services to security.
with the resolution which this parliament is about to adopt, we are sending a strong message together: the ambition of the future relationship will depend on the willingness of the british government to accept conformity with community rules on social, labour, taxation and the environment.
moreover, if we want this benefit to be real, we also need a strong partnership in judicial cooperation, security and defence, in support of the multilateral order, and in tackling issues such as fisheries, transport, energy and financial services.
capital holders, to force a bottom-up leveling of working and wage conditions, social, environmental or tax standards.
but there are other areas where the uk has higher standards than the eu for certain aspects of environmental policy, or for banking regulation.
we could put a rule in the new agreement whereby the two partners would commit themselves to apply the one of the two standards which is the more ambitious and by the more ambitious i mean the more protective of health, privacy, working conditions and pay, the environment.
my group welcomes the clear statements on the prevention of tax dumping, the protection of workers' rights and labour standards, consumer protection and environmental protection.
what is required in return is a level playing field, to avoid a race to the bottom in regulatory, fiscal, environmental and social matters.
we are clear about what we want to achieve – a sound and ambitious strategic, political and economic relationship – but we also say, loud and clear, that we will ensure open, but also fair, competition, a proper level playing field and no regression on the high european standards of environmental, social and labour protection, and also consumer rights and food safety.
because we cannot compete on lower standards in the field of the environment, the climate, consumer protection.
from this parliamentary group we will continue to work to protect the rights of citizens, the rights of the environment and those of the primary sector agriculture, livestock to avoid the depopulation of our villages.
and then our committees in parliament will have to be committed to protecting the key areas, such as fisheries, space, energy, and then the interests of peace in ireland and the spanish interests in gibraltar, and of course defence and the fight against terrorism.
so the question of equal rights for workers, the question of equal environmental standards, the question of the same aid scheme - very important - and the question of a harmonised tax rate.
this is our task - in the interests of our citizens, in the economic, social, environmental and cultural dimensions.
questions of cooperation between armed forces, energy and network cooperation, police cooperation and airspace regulation must not be removed from parliamentary control and handed over to committees set up under the agreement.
i very much welcome the commission's approach to enshrining the un sustainable development goals, giving a lot of weight to the paris agreement, the ilo and fundamental rights, including data protection.
– madam president, honourable colleagues, distinguished commissioner, the negotiations between the european union and vietnam started in 2012. they were first concluded in 2015, subsequently reopened and then finalised in june 2019. these eight years has witnessed dramatic progress in vietnamese society, economy, labour conditions, environmental protection and sustainability.
as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, my appeal is to vote for consent tomorrow and then to work together – the eu and vietnam – for a better, freer and more sustainable future.
the environmental costs of the eu's efforts are clearly in contrast to the sacrifices it imposes on its member countries: in vietnam, coal is the main source of electricity generation, with a coal contribution to the energy mix of over 40% and the completion of around 100 coal-fired power plants by 2030. the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the opportunity to negotiate a new agreement with the united states on the basis of the gatt agreement.
but above all, i would like to remind the commission of this incredible double-speak: we vote on the climate emergency, we vote on the european green deal and at the same time we pass, business as usual, a free trade agreement which is clearly climate-destroying and which does not protect sustainable development.
yes, vietnam is a developing country and obviously the process of economic, environmental and above all social modernisation is far from complete.
the european rice sector plays a key role both in the economy and in the conservation of geographical areas of high environmental value.
we are now the guarantors of fair and sustainable and rules-based trade.
will this agreement benefit and promote compliance with those standards, compliance with the sustainable development goals, human rights, environmental conditions?
i don't know if some people want to change the world through statements, through extremist positions, environmental savonarolas, but they still win votes, but they will not contribute to improving the quality of life of any citizen anywhere in the world.
but what we will not do is from extremist statements that only aim to reinforce and win votes instead of trying to advance human rights, social rights, the sustainable development goals and environmental respect.
and of course, every new job starts with credit, and the trick is: don’t waste it.
besides, you should encourage governments to invest substantially in sustainability, reaping the benefits of the low interest rate and pushing that rate upwards, and in that way restore the full potential of monetary policy.
so we count on your continued support in building the foundations for sustainable growth in europe.
the second point that i would like to emphasise briefly, and i’ve focused on the monetary policy tools and how we will look at them and measure them and measure the benefits as well as the negative effect, is climate change.
as former managing director of the imf, i think i’d be remiss not to remind all of us that one of the key tools in relation to climate change is clearly the proper pricing of carbon, and this is not something that a european central bank or any central bank in the world can actually decide.
so as we go through our strategy review, we will determine where and how the issue of climate change and the fight against climate change can actually have an impact on our policies, whether it’s in relation to our price stability primary objective and how it impacts this primary objective, or whether it’s in relation to the management of risk that we are accountable to our european citizens and to you when we look at the composition of our portfolios and the one that we manage, and whether or not risks are actually properly priced and whether the climate change risks associated with some of the collateral that we have in our portfolios, for instance, are measured or not.
so in that respect, climate change will be one of the items that we will take into account, together with the more traditional aspects that we will be measuring, and it’s in the context of that strategy review, mr vice-president, that we will continue this dialogue, not only with you, but also with the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ).
a system of own resources that helps us solve the problems we face: climate change and tax evasion.
we need a budget focused on the development of the european union and that means also money for cohesion and money for agriculture and money for research and money for the environment.
but that pact and all the measures that will follow from it, such as the farm-to-table strategy, will only win the support of european citizens if, instead of cutting budgets and asking for more environmental contributions, we are able to offer farmers the support they need, not only to pursue more ambitious environmental objectives, but also to develop a profitable economic activity.
we must address the neglect of our rural areas and the fatigue and frustration of our farmers through a budget that does not marginalise the challenges of the rural world and its remarkable contribution to sustainability.
that is why, in the face of those who are determined to armor europe's fortress and turn it into an agency for mass deportation, we will continue to defend human rights, to defend legal and safe ways of access, to defend humanitarian visas at the point of origin and to defend the recognition of the figure of climate refugees.
that is why we have to check very carefully at the external borders who wants to enter, because the rest is utopia, beautiful words, but they do not solve any problem and they put the sustainability of this common project at risk.
we are entering a new era of reform with a focus on circular economy, climate change and green policies.
we want to make european agriculture sustainable and climate neutral in the long term, but i fear we will resort to the same solutions that have proven bad in the past.
new expensive public programs and subsidies are not a sustainable solution in the long run.
this is the only way to ensure sustainable growth of this industry, boost competitiveness and avoid overburdening the budget.
madam president, commissioner, we are starting from the premise that a large majority of this house wants agriculture to be more sustainable and to contribute to achieving the objectives of the 2030 agenda.
similarly, some people want european agriculture to serve the preservation of the environment, to combat climate change, to reduce pesticides, to reduce the use of antibiotics, to improve biodiversity, to give citizens better information, to protect forests, to improve animal welfare, and so on.
is it good for the environment and the climate?
the european union is loudly proclaiming its 'farm to fork' strategy, yet little or nothing is said about the real concerns of farmers because we are only focusing on reducing plant protection products, increasing animal welfare rules, and incorporating new environmental obligations.
i wonder how we are going to respond to the market crisis facing the sector in spain and other countries of the european union if we continue to fail to understand that an economic sector that is not profitable can never be sustainable.
now we can see the difference between a real crisis and alarmist, climate or other fables, as false as they are self-interested.
we are at a key moment for the future of europe, when the next european budget will be decided, which will have to face the great challenges facing the eu: the digital transformation, the fight against climate change and migration.
the new own resources are an opportunity to combat tax evasion by large companies and to make the big polluters pay for their environmental damage.
this crisis is a wake-up call and an opportunity to build global resilience and a more cohesive society towards sustainable well-being where we all act together in the face of the challenge of citizen protection and social peace and essential social services.
we need a european strategy for social and economic recovery and reconstruction, a marshall plan to preserve the well-being achieved alongside a transition to a climate-neutral economy.
in the last three months, the european parliament has been in the news for three things: for approving the climate emergency, for singing the hand when the uk left and for inviting greta to give a conference in the middle of a pandemic, with the building closed even to state visits.
secondly, a sustainable recovery that does not focus on profits but on people and the environment.
so let's legislate that no investment from the recovery fund should harm people or the environment.
from climate change to the new geopolitics, to digitization, to brexit, to the election of trump as president of the united states.
i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has now taken the initiative to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the eu, we are facing the most difficult situation since 1950. the coronavirus pandemic leaves us with thousands of deaths and an economic depression unlike any since 1929, adding to the challenges we've faced in the last decade: climate change, aggressive geopolitics, migration crises, digital challenge, brexit and the election of trump in the us, among others.
every day we waste in fruitless arguments will be measured in lost jobs and truncated lives.
european solidarity must be accompanied by ambitious national reforms, to make our economy more modern, competitive and sustainable; to make our national health systems more resilient; and to protect all families.
there are positive aspects in the recommendations of this parliament: environmental standards, anti-dumping, protection of the primary sector or citizens' rights which we have managed to include explicitly; but we also see shortcomings.
we need to strengthen governance structures so that we can have a foreign policy based on disarmament, based on mediation, the end of sanctions, multilateralism, the fight against climate change and gender equality.
but what is the best strategy to reverse this situation that threatens the climate, biodiversity, but also the sustainable development of the amazonian countries and the right of their citizens to enjoy a dignified life?
because, ladies and gentlemen, for our climate strategy to have a real global impact, we need partners to join it, and that can only be achieved on the basis of binding agreements.
these are key to working with our partners on climate strategy, such as the eu-mercosur agreement, which includes a specific chapter on sustainable development and environmental protection, and which includes compliance with the paris agreement as a binding element.
madam president, it is a well-established axiom that in these years of populist politics the lack of democratic quality is always accompanied by a clear disregard for environmental quality.
we don't know populists who trash rights and yet are committed to the environment.
it is further proof of the dangerous assumption by conservatives of the far-right agenda and of that idea of an unlimited right to exploit natural resources, which every nationalist considers his own because they are within his borders, as if the environment and the consequences of environmental practices could be parcelled out like political maps.
i have heard excellent examples of this kind of environmental nationalism here today.
the amazon could be considered, surely without falling into a rhetorical abuse, as an environmental resource of all humanity surely like the arctic and like few spaces more of that scale, but it is also and above all a resource of its own current inhabitants, many of them indigenous and many of them also those who will have to live in brazil in the future, and both of them are being expropriated their rights through deforestation and land occupation by the bolsonaro government.
the european union is therefore acting on environmental grounds and also to restore democratic quality and environmental quality to these citizens of the future of brazil.
the coronavirus pandemic is endangering indigenous communities and is being used as a tool to distract the media and allow the adoption of legislation that dilutes the environmental protection of the jungle and environmental controls without any questioning.
the next mercosur agreement must also include a binding sustainable development chapter, which will enable the eu to act against brazil's breaches and abuses.
european solidarity must be accompanied by ambitious national reforms to make spain and europe more competitive and resilient, with an industrial, digital and sustainable economy, without ever giving up freedom and equality.
they repeat words without substance: green pact, ecological transition, gender equality, resilience, etc.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
because these funds are the opportunity that our autonomous communities, our municipalities, our towns have to carry out reforms that will lead us to a more digital, greener and more sustainable model; that will make our smes, our trade, our companies, our tourism much stronger and more competitive, and having a clear idea of what our priorities are and what europe we want.
we must use this opportunity to move towards a more humane europe, where all citizens have the capacity to enjoy true freedom, respect the environment, embrace knowledge technology and put technology at the service of people.
because it is necessary to calm the period immediately after the elections, in a climate as polarized as it is traditional in georgia, and for that, international observation has always been essential.
every time we talk about russia or the countries of the east, we are only straining relations with the european union, in a somewhat hypocritical way because all parties know that we have close trade and energy relations; the nord stream project is an example of this.
mr president, resilience, sustainability, gender equality, digital europe, the green deal, agenda 2030, more powers for the union, more european laws, more european taxes, and now even a coordinator against racism: blah, blah, blah.
with a push for ambitious national reforms, fostering a modern, resilient, competitive economy, in the face of climate change and the digital age, giving priority to the creation of quality jobs, because it is the best social policy, strengthening national systems and ensuring, above all, the best education for all our young people.
and i want to make this absolutely clear: from this european parliament, we will do what is necessary to ensure that money is spent well, not spent on helping friends and girlfriends; that it is used to support families in education, health; to fight climate change and protect our planet.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms that should aim to strengthen public health, tackle the just digital and ecological transition, strengthen social and territorial cohesion and promote and ensure gender equality.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
the basis for recovery was laid on 21 july following the agreement reached at the european council, and it is now up to the member states to implement the reforms that must be aimed at strengthening public health, the ecological and digital transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
the basis for recovery was laid in july and it is now up to member states to implement reforms, which should be aimed at strengthening public health, the just digital and ecological transition, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
so i’m here in this full house as the rapporteur on the real driving emissions type approval report, and i would like to move a request for referral back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations based on rule 59(4) of the rules of procedure.
we cannot afford to emerge from this new crisis with a new gap in inequality, and for that we need to guarantee public services, to reactivate the care economy; that the energy transition and digitisation do not become the business of a few and that they serve to strengthen industry, that they also look at the primary sector, to fix the population on the territory, to youth employment and to achieve the objectives against climate change.
i think that is the feeling i have about certain debates in the european parliament, for example the climate objectives which will be discussed in the council next week.
on the one hand, we are pushing for a reasonable climate law, but on the other hand, we are in favour of a just transition fund, which is unfair and has little transition to a low-emission energy model, because it continues to dop gas.
or we continue to sign free trade agreements that make the oranges we eat, which are from south africa, have a carbon footprint that far exceeds the total production of my home country, valencia.
it's simple: what glue are you going to use to make climate targets compatible with the unjust transition fund or the escalation of free trade agreements?
of course, the forest plays a very important role in the protection of biodiversity, climate protection, water management, air protection, etc.
this strategy will be published in the first quarter of 2021. the main direction of this strategy is defined in the green deal communication, which mentioned that, building on the 23rd biodiversity strategy, the commission would prepare a new forest strategy covering the whole forest cycle and promoting the many services that forests provide.
the biodiversity strategy also mentioned that the eu must increase the quantity, quality and resilience of its forest, notably against fires, droughts, pests and diseases, and other threats likely to increase with climate change.
as president von der leyen stated in her recent state of the union speech, our current levels of consumption of raw materials, energy, water, food and land use are not sustainable.
securing the health and resilience of existing and new forests, including under novel climatic conditions in the future, is crucial for their effective support to all the environmental, social and economic functions and services that forests provide to our society.
this is why forests are an integral part of the european green deal and its eu biodiversity strategy 2030, which reiterates that forests are hugely important for biodiversity, climate and water regulation, the provision of food, medicines and materials, carbon sequestration and storage, soil stabilisation and the purification of air and water.
it will require a holistic approach carried out for, on the one hand, sustainable forest management that improves both their quantity and quality and, on the other hand, the multifunctional role of forests for the economic sector and communities that depend on them.
furthermore, the aim is to help increase absorption of co2, reduce the incidence and extent of forest fires and other climate-related pressures, and promote the circular bioeconomy in full respect of ecological principles favourable to biodiversity.
the strategy will need the right balance and synergies between the different socioeconomic interests related to forests and the need to increase our forest protection and restoration efforts to achieve our climate and biodiversity goals.
in line with the biodiversity strategy, the last remaining primary and old growth forests in the eu need to be protected.
the upcoming forest strategy will also include a roadmap for planting at least three billion additional trees – maybe more – in the eu by 2030, in full respect of ecological principles.
this was a key commitment in the biodiversity strategy to deliver on green deal objectives and thus contribute to both climate mitigation and adaptation and revert biodiversity loss.
it has to lay the foundations for innovation and the promotion of new products, and to replace the intensive fossil-based materials and effectively contribute to a new low carbon society.
as an example, president von der leyen referred in her state of the union speech to turning the construction sector from a carbon source to a carbon sink by applying organic building materials like wood.
moreover, under the cap, the eu will also increasingly have to help to ensure that forestry in the eu, together with agriculture, is socially, economically and environmentally sustainable, supporting and strengthening the benefits that forestry brings to european society and providing sustainable economic rewards for farmers, forest managers and the eu as a whole.
overall, let me conclude, the new eu forest strategy will aim to build sustainable forest management and, aligned with relevant eu international commitments, the strategy’s principles and objectives should also help inform eu policy relevant to forests and the forest sector.
it's clear that because it offers us recreation, it gives us hunting opportunities, and it's a great opportunity to conserve biodiversity, to build more climate-smart, and to have reasonable carbon sinks that help us with the big climate challenges.
this means that in the last 100 years we have more than doubled our forest mass in sweden, while preserving more of the forest for biodiversity values and also getting more out of the forest materials, which allows us to replace fossil-based materials in both construction and the chemical industry.
in addition, these forests are often used to produce high-quality wood and are also important sources of energy.
in these alpine regions we also have functioning forestry services that already ensure sustainability.
the concept of sustainability has its roots in forestry as early as 1713. of course, our understanding of this is not the same as it was 300 years ago.
climate and nature conservation rightly deserve more attention today.
the effects of climate change are making forests more vulnerable to pests and forest fires, for example.
through research and practice, we now also know more about the specific factors and ecosystem services of the forest: recreation for people, the importance of healthy soils, humus formation, water reserves available to plants, site-adapted tree species.
a one-sided focus on a carbon sink is far too short.
we are looking at the legal basis that will guide us to climate neutrality in 2050, the cornerstone of the european green deal and our fight against climate change.
the climate act will force us to review other regulations, to increase our renewables, energy efficiency and grid connection targets - we will do this in the itre commission, which is also progressive - and to improve policies that preserve our biodiversity.
this act will demonstrate europe's leadership in the face of the forthcoming international climate summits; others are already beginning to follow our path.
there is no plausible climate ambition without social justice.
we've already shown that the economy can improve as we reduce emissions.
i have to say, madam president, yes, if we're going to make a climate bill, we have to make it right.
what we have to focus on is renewable energy, and we have to do it consistently.
and let's be honest, gas is about as climate friendly as, say, cola light is healthy.
methane emissions, co2 emissions -- that's gas, and coke is a risk factor for diabetes.
let's be clear: we need to take bold, decisive action to protect the climate.
we need real energy efficiency practices in our homes, in all our buildings.
we need strong infrastructure for renewables, and above all we need to fight energy poverty.
one thing is certain, and we can see this in this law: the market does not decide everything on its own, and certainly not when it comes to climate neutrality.
but there is also the union which gives us hope, and the european law on climate change is the best example of this.
the climate neutral union by 2050 and we want to achieve this without jeopardising the competitiveness of our companies or the cohesion of our societies.
madam president, the fight against climate change is a task for all of us.
the european union must take the lead in the fight against climate change, but without losing sight of the competitiveness of businesses and job creation.
one of the reasons for the closure has to do with energy costs.
we must take concrete action now, be consistent in setting new climate targets, and we cannot pretend that the covid-19 pandemic and brexit don't exist.
the debate on the european climate law is already showing clearly the weaknesses of a european union that is subject to the dictates of a new and reinforced green ideology or religion.
this climate submission in the european union, in the midst of a pandemic, with immense problems, is not going to bring stability or legal certainty or a long-term vision based on that scientific evidence.
one of the eu's priority objectives is to combat climate change.
the european climate law is therefore of fundamental importance for our future.
this law is the cornerstone of the european green deal and will enshrine in european legislation the objective of achieving climate neutrality in the eu by 2050 at the latest.
we must support this landmark proposal which will make europe a world leader and a benchmark in achieving climate neutrality.
it's a conflict that grew out of the soviet union and its dissolution, and it's a demonstration that what we call frozen conflicts, in this climate of global geopolitical warming, can thaw and create conflict immediately.
that is our role, mr borrell: in this new climate with turkey, to demand that turkey join the international community in this position.
today we can make an assessment of that action plan, which was not in the original report, and in that assessment, my personal assessment is that there is still a lot to be done and we cannot waste any more time.
get down to earth: out there, there are millions of europeans out of work, there are thousands of honest businessmen and families who are suffering, and it is absolutely obscene that instead of fighting in the open against money laundering, drug trafficking and terrorism, we are allocating thousands of funds and demanding tax increases and the creation of new european taxes to finance the climate party of the big globalist multinationals.
we therefore need a secure environment from the legal point of view, from the technological point of view and from the point of view of the protection that consumers expect.
in fact, today, the industrialized parts of agriculture are the main part of the climate problem.
and agriculture has such great potential to be part of the climate solution.
even if the social democrats try to gloss over a bad outcome of the negotiations, it remains a missed opportunity to take a decisive stand against climate change, the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis.
this is a blow to farming and a dark day for climate and environmental protection.
mr president, in the last few weeks i have received many e-mails from environmental ngos asking for more support and ambition for the green architecture of the cap.
my answer is and will always be the same: if agriculture is not a profitable and competitive activity, environmental protection will be a utopia.
i refuse to be complicit, because we are creating a bureaucratic monster, because i see no will to support young farmers with adequate funds and, above all, because implicitly giving up food production for the sake of the environment will leave our farmers and consumers completely unprotected against imports from third countries.
farmers feed us, they keep rural areas alive, and they are a climate change containment dam.
but the cap of this time is fairer and more sustainable.
that is why we are advocating real and significant environmental spending for young people and women.
we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable.
we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable.
we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable.
we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable.
we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable.
we must accelerate the digital and green transitions by ensuring that they are fair, effective and sustainable.
– mr president, with regard to climate, those were very poor council conclusions indeed.
or can i even call them conclusions, because the only thing that leaders could agree on was that they had actually talked about climate.
we are in the midst of a rapidly progressing climate crisis and postponement of action is a mistake.
this year again looks set to break any sort of records with regard to climate crisis, be it heat waves, droughts, intensity, extreme weather events, arctic shield loss, etc.
deciding to talk about climate later is failing to grasp the urgency of this task.
we have to act now and we have to act decisively at all levels and also in all policy areas, and the compromise reached by the european parliament on reducing greenhouse gases by 60% by 2030 is a good step forward.
the climate doesn’t wait and neither should we.
and yes, the economic transformation needed for that is no walk in the park, especially for regions with a long-standing tradition of carbon-intensive economies.
we need to have a climate spending target of 30% and a biodiversity target of 10% in order to be up to the tasks ahead.
we’re approaching the end of the time limit and i just want to remind us that of course the uk government could have asked for an extension and they decided not to, but it’s also clear that we cannot accept a deal that would endanger the single market, social rights or environmental standards.
top social, labour and environmental standards, fair competition, effective governance, a sustainable agreement on fisheries and full compliance with the withdrawal agreement.
i fully support further eu coordination in terms of the pandemic and ambition in our fight against climate change.
today, however, i wanted to talk about the fact that unfortunately the council did not tackle the issue of climate change as we would have liked at the last meeting.
it is urgent that the 60% we have proposed for the climate law be adopted by the european institutions and by the majority of the member states.
as greens, we are not satisfied with a reform that will not defend our biodiversity, that will not guarantee a transition to another mode of production and, therefore, we will fail with the cap and we will have a big black hole in the fight against climate change.
we cannot allocate 750 billion euros without a clear objective of ecological transformation.
and it's fine to spend 37 percent on the climate target, but we can't, at the same time, pour money into highways, into fossil fuels.
the topics of discussion were: eu-uk negotiations, climate policy debate and the field of external relations with a special focus on africa, and the issues of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny and the management of the coronavirus pandemic were re-addressed.
a future friendly relationship between the eu and the uk will undoubtedly be mutually beneficial, but for that to happen, mr johnson must respect the withdrawal agreement and the community rules on social, labour, environmental and taxation.
the topics of discussion were: eu-uk negotiations, climate policy debate and the field of external relations with a special focus on africa, and the issues of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny and the management of the coronavirus pandemic were re-addressed.
a future friendly relationship between the eu and the uk will undoubtedly be mutually beneficial, but for that to happen, mr johnson must respect the withdrawal agreement and the community rules on social, labour, environmental and taxation.
only then can we achieve our ambitious goals, such as the digital transition or climate action, and only then can we return to growth, preserve jobs and create new ones.
in times of crisis, such thinking will rob you of time and energy to do what is important, not help you to get back on your feet.
madam president, the past financial crisis and the answer the eu has given show how cuts in public services had a negative impact on our economic, environmental and social recovery.
to achieve this, it’s important to change the mind-set of many eu leaders and to come forward with a model that puts social and environmental challenges on an equal footing with economic ones.
let us exclude, among other things, the expenditure linked to the ecological transition and, above all, let us stop using indicators dating from the 1930s, whose obsolescence has been demonstrated by the health crisis.
that is how we give back dignity to our citizens, and for that we have to bet on the economy, which has to be resilient, has to be competitive, has to be sustainable.
we can't be afraid of the words productivity and sustainability, and the entrepreneurship that's required.
so we need an industry that is subject to public control and planning and, of course, that responds to the challenges of the climate emergency and creates quality jobs.
madam president, my message is this: we will not achieve a genuine recovery and a socially sustainable europe without measures adapted to the tragic situation we are living in, which deal with its consequences not only economically but also socially.
only with a multiannual financial framework and an ambitious recovery fund focused equally on economic growth aspects and social objectives can we move towards a truly sustainable europe that invests in what really matters: people.
the idea is very simple: a socially sustainable europe means investing in public welfare systems.
we have adopted a report on the climate emergency in this parliament, we have also adopted the climate law to achieve neutrality and i believe that today we are taking another step towards making the european parliament the most environmentally friendly institution in the world, a house which is at the forefront of the fight against the effects of climate change.
they are natural carbon sinks of incalculable value in basic natural processes such as air and water purification, carbon absorption or temperature regulation.
we need to include binding sustainable development chapters in free trade agreements such as mercosur, thus fulfilling the paris agreement and the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
the holocene can end at any moment if we continue like this, so let us use this momentum, the momentum of this afternoon and of this report to protect and preserve ecosystems, biodiversity and forests.
and to remember that cutting down a forest, dispossessing it, is fuelling climate change and is also causing the flight of its inhabitants, not only of those biodiversities but also of humans.
nonetheless, the european union has committed to the united nations sustainable development goal to promote and achieve gender equality.
women’s meaningful participation in all matters related to foreign and security policy has a wider relevance to the central role of the european union in contributing to efforts to achieve peace, security and sustainable development.
mr president, commissioner, the energy union is crucial and important for our economy and our transition to climate neutrality and, to make it a reality, europe must commit to resolving the bottleneck it has.
let us hope that this is not a mirage also derived from the pandemic and let us remember that we still have 34 million europeans who suffer from energy poverty and cannot adequately heat their homes.
the state of the energy union is a key instrument for measuring our progress towards cleaner energy, enabling us to meet the decarbonisation commitments agreed in the european climate law for 2030 and 2050. the state of the energy union allows us to analyse the weaknesses of our energy system and, above all, to show where we need to invest more.
the new recovery and cohesion funds should be a key tool to ensure better energy efficiency in buildings, to invest in sustainable mobility plans and to reduce the use of fossil fuels by individuals and industry, through progressive electrification and investment in alternative sources such as green hydrogen and renewable energy.
it is time to engage civil society, foster innovation and public-private partnerships to achieve greater energy independence and a greener and more digital europe.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have increased funding for strategic programmes (horizon, eu4health, erasmus+, creative europe, rights and values, humanitarian aid...) and secured funding for a just ecological transition.
in addition, this agreement sets out a roadmap for the introduction of new eu own resources (non-recycled plastic and border carbon tax in 2021, digital tax in 2023, ttf and harmonised corporate tax in 2026) which, together with the issuance of federal public debt to finance the recovery plan, make possible the temporary financial union to become a permanent union in the future, being one of the keys to making full political union possible.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
we have five health challenges: overcoming inequalities, improving crisis preparedness, strengthening union industry by innovating and supporting business competitiveness, addressing environmental challenges related to health and pharmaceutical substances and products, and leading the digital transformation of health systems.
and the tragedy that is being thrown at us has biblical dimensions, and here we are wrestling with green agreements, with ecological transitions, with mythical climate emergencies and a whole series of apocalyptic prophecies about the end of the world.
this huge exercise, this colossal social engineering that they want to do with the green deal was already absurd before and what it did was to reduce europe's competitiveness without fixing any of the environmental problems, but what we see now is that throughout europe - and in spain in particular we are seeing it - the economy is sinking.
please, let's be smart, let's have some common sense, let's get to the urgency, which is the social and economic emergency that we have right now, let's focus on people's lives and not on ideological, climate and ecorradical birds.
mr president, commissioner, i am pleased that we have a debate in this house this afternoon on such an important subject as the sustainability of the single market, a subject which certainly needs to be topical in a situation where the pandemic has shown that we have to change our consumption habits and our ways of relating to each other.
so from the point of view of industries, it is important that the european union takes action on where we are going to produce and how we are going to be able to increase sustainability throughout the value chain, from the design to the distribution of products.
this should make us think that european culture, european citizens are demanding a better way of consuming, a more sustainable way of consuming.
and finally, also - and i don't want to miss this - it is important that the public administration takes note, that public procurement is much more social and more sustainable.
the european commission published the new consumer agenda on 13 november, which aims to put consumers at the centre of the digital and ecological transitions as the driving force behind the recovery from this crisis.
the european commission published the new consumer agenda on 13 november, which aims to put consumers at the centre of the digital and ecological transitions as the driving force behind the recovery from this crisis.
we need to move towards a circular economy, we need to invest in alternative energy sources - such as hydrogen - to achieve the climate targets we have set for ourselves, and we also need to invest in skills and education to ensure that all europeans are prepared to face the major change that this new industrial strategy will bring.
in latin america, there has been a terrible increase in the repression of journalists who criticize both government corruption and inequitable social and environmental policies.
the most relevant debates were the response to the covid-19 pandemic, climate change, the fight against terrorism and violent extremism, the situation in the eastern mediterranean and relations with turkey, the eu's relations with the countries of the southern neighbourhood, the eu's trade policy.
this strategy addresses both the short-term challenges linked to covid-19 and the long-term challenges connected with unmet medical needs, europe’s strategic autonomy and sustainable health systems.
this includes harnessing the benefits of emerging science and technology and reducing the environmental footprint.
only then will we achieve the balance between innovation, accessibility and sustainability of national health systems.
because while this commission is holding back and paralysing the agreement with mercosur, because it is questioning the environmental commitments of countries that signed the paris agreements, it is negotiating a trade agreement with a country that has directly abandoned them, as is the case with the united states.
the shortcoming: this agreement is a missed opportunity to correct an unfair situation for european products that suffer unilateral tariffs from the united states, as is the case for spanish table olives since 2017. commissioner, europe needs trade, trade based on rules, committed to the protection of the environment, sustainable development and human rights.
mr president, commissioner, we are just over two weeks away from the start of the european year of the rail, an initiative which aims to attract more users and goods to the railway, considered to be one of the most energy-efficient and environmentally friendly modes of transport and a key element in the sustainable mobility accompanying the new green deal.
this requires putting users at the centre of attention and offering them a more comfortable, safer, greener, more accessible and socially sustainable transport alternative at an affordable price.
there will be no success in digital and ecological transition if we do not incorporate them into this opportunity.
companies in every sector, from energy and finance to hotel and agri-food.
given the current climate change outlook, the available flows will continue to decrease.
in the face of corruption problems and privatisation pressures, our water policy must be implemented from a strict commitment to public, integrated, participatory and sustainable management of rivers, lakes, wetlands and aquifers as well as water and sanitation services.
and there's also water poverty, not just energy poverty.
- all this added to the big questions faced on the sidelines of the pandemic, such as the impact of brexit, trump's tariffs or an increasingly restrictive environmental legislation.
in addition, this programme includes a clear commitment to something fundamental: training, digitisation, the energy transition and support for our severely punished health systems, all of which are pillars of a recovery not only in the short term, but a recovery understood as the construction of a path for the european economic and social future.
i believe that i am the spokesman for the majority of the french people, who, i remind you, rejected the draft european constitution in a referendum in 2005. finally, i regret that two good ideas are being ruined in the process, namely the creation of a gafa tax on the digital giants and a carbon tax levied on the import of polluting goods.
again, if we look at the climate conclusions, you will come back.
you say ‘we are going to give guidelines on climate in the spring before the commission comes with its package’.
otherwise, we can suffer again the waste of public money, like the plan e of the socialist government that, unfortunately, did not serve to get spain out of the crisis of 2008, but quite the opposite.
among the top topics in 2019 were the environment, transport, children's rights, the plight of the disabled and the many concerns on both sides of the brexit channel.
many of the petitions were in the environmental, health and social sectors.
the most frequent topics of petitions were again last year the environment, fundamental rights and justice.
as already mentioned, precisely our priorities on environmental matters and fundamental rights are the topics where we have received the most petitions.
it is worth highlighting a fact from this report: in 2019, despite the coronavirus pandemic, the number of petitions increased by more than 11% compared to the previous year, in such important matters as the environment, brexit or the exercise of rights or disability.
however, only mutual trust can build sustainable bridges for our future cooperation in the ever-challenging future.
many of the honourable members raised the issue of full respect for social, environmental and labour standards.
the business environment, academic cooperation or european citizens are at risk of being seriously affected.