on this the eu is fully delivering on the pledges we made, with over eur 400 million mobilised in the last two years to support governance reforms and promote sustainable job creation.
this is a worrisome announcement, but it is important to see what the international atomic energy agency reports on how iran implements this step.
the european union's risky involvement in the context of escalating competition for control of energy is designed to benefit itself.
moreover, if israel, following palestinian rejection of the plan, were to restart settlement activity or go on to annex parts of the occupied territories, it may be entirely counterproductive to sustainable peace and eventually prove detrimental to the two- state solution altogether.
we must continue to uphold the position that only a negotiated two-state solution can, in a sustainable manner, address the legitimate israeli security concerns and deliver a palestinian statehood.
the green new deal says goodbye to fossil fuels: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the environment, but that we should be concerned about the environment.
germany is now building nord stream 2 with russia, for example, to buy cheap gas from russia, ignoring geopolitical risks and security interests, ignoring the interests of its partners and the european union member states by increasing russia's influence in the european union's energy sector.
a carbon tax, a gafam tax, a plastic tax whose introduction remains very hypothetical and the financial products totally unknown.
it comes at a time when time is running out to meet the climate challenge and when, faced with xi jinping's china, trump's united states, putin's russia or erdogan's turkey, the european union feels alone in defending freedom, the rule of law and a global order based on negotiated rules.
on the positive side, we welcome the fact that the target of devoting 30% of european spending to combating climate change has been adopted.
the position of my group has always been clear: the eu is called upon to provide a comprehensive response to the corona crisis and to ensure social and economic recovery, linking this with the social-digital and social-ecological transformation of our continent.
let's not waste this opportunity!
a powerful economic recovery machine has been built, but the opportunity has been lost for this colossal energy to serve to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, especially in these times when dramatic situations, such as those of the uyghur people, demand from europe an indestructible moral authority in the human rights field.
of course, further approximation is still needed in some areas like environmental protection and the fight against discrimination of vulnerable groups.
the european union's willingness to resist is inversely proportional to the dependence it accepts on its neighbours: trade dependence on china, energy dependence on russia, asylum and migration dependence on turkey.
the relocation of our economy, like the energy transition, is part of this.
i would say: a little more energy, a little more trumpism, maybe.
and the question is how the europe of tomorrow can be more of a political power, with a positive effect inspired by our values, considering that the climate change pillar coupled with the digital change pillar are spaces within which we will exercise our strategic influence, as we have done in the past, for example, in the field of chemistry, or the processing of private data for example, that is the issue.
there are three points: we want to engage with china, we believe in the virtues of dialogue, we believe china is a partner in dealing with issues like covid and climate issues.
you will also notice that china, like south africa, has committed itself to climate neutrality.
and finally, europe is at the meeting when, for example, we take the initiative of this multilateral conference on this part of the mediterranean to bring together those who sometimes have common views but also sometimes different views on maritime disputes, on energy issues, on security issues, on economic development issues.
you mentioned the issue of climate policy.
madam president, the climate emergency is a race we are losing, said un secretary-general antónio guterres last weekend.
the planet is dying, biodiversity is dying, humanity is dying, we don't have time for another failure.
they will seek to destroy jobs across the european union, to drive down pay and conditions and environmental standards, both in britain and in the eu.
we want an agreement, but we demand a good agreement and there is an essential principle to be remembered: any agreement which gives the united kingdom access to the european market with zero tariffs and zero quotas must also ensure zero dumping, which means not allowing any backsliding in our environmental, social and labour protection standards.
this demonstrates the need for a qualified sanctions decision-making process in an increasingly tense neighbourhood and global foreign policy environment.
it is encouraged by china's announcement to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, with a clear reminder of the unacceptable human rights situation and the need to level the playing field.
i would like to mention the issues of the economy, unemployment and the greenhouse effect.
a grassroots movement to supposedly save the world by going along with the climate policy craziness that is pure fanaticism.
and at the same time, to make up for the energy deficit, we import cheap gas from russia, for example, through nord stream 2 to germany, which is very green and globally saving the world.
first of all, again, this climate policy, climate neutrality and climate hysteria.
to this day, no one in this room has been able to prove how much global warming will affect us, if we just shut down all farms tomorrow, shut down all factories, stop all co2 emissions, no one has been able to prove how that will affect global warming, and that's why it's very silly and funny to hear in this room that we're fighting for climate neutrality, even though no one in this room knows how that will actually affect global warming or climate change in the long run.
not to mention the double standard that most of us drive to work and fly home, but we're all fighting for climate neutrality.
– madam president, the npt or the treaty on the non—proliferation of nuclear weapons entered into force over 50 years ago, in march 1970. the treaty consists of three mutually reinforcing pillars which deal respectively with the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, nuclear disarmament and the civilian use of nuclear energy.
the ep is clear on the issues: governance, level playing field, social and environmental standards, the public interest and the fisheries agreement and the full implementation of the good friday agreement.
unfortunately, the eu is trying to mix together a green deal and climate history, while at the same time take huge loans with some kind of economic reforms, and they are declining more and more.
and as if all that wasn't bad enough, the summit is forcing europeans to set new, completely absurd climate targets for 2030. the summit basically decided to deindustrialize europe.
on the multiannual financial framework - as you know, i have spoken on several occasions - i would have hoped for an even bigger budget to respond to climate issues.
and this budget is going in the right direction: 30% towards the climate, 10% towards biodiversity.
i hope that the portuguese presidency will be able to reorient the common agricultural policy in this direction, that of climate and biodiversity, and that it will take account of the environmental and social challenges of this common agricultural policy.