madam president, the horrible scenes from australia have shown that climate change and biodiversity loss go hand in hand.
we are speaking about hundreds of thousands of animals and a lot of the nature of australia, which is a unique biodiversity ecosystem in itself, having been destroyed.
the scale of this damage is something that we also need to reflect on – that we are not prepared to adapt, and be prepared for the damage that climate change is going to inflict on us in europe as well.
we need to be better prepared to address forest fires in europe, we need to increase our climate ambition, and we have to make sure that countries like australia do their part as well.
in this situation, i think it’s important that from the european side we show solidarity to the australian people and put particular emphasis on addressing the biodiversity loss in australia – there the government of australia needs our help, but when it comes to the climate policies, they need a very urgent push.
the wildfires in australia are not caused by the alleged climate change.
is there anyone who would argue that climate change has raised the temperature so much that it is starting fires on its own?
this climate hysteria is now used to justify everything possible and impossible.
countries such as finland, which are climate models, will have to reduce their emissions even more radically, at the risk of losing the competitiveness of their own industry.
the aid must be strongly conditional on real and effective climate action and the target must genuinely support the people of the area concerned in order for the transition to be truly socially just.
these include improving energy efficiency, climate action that best reduces the cost of housing, retraining of those in carbon jobs and the direct creation of genuinely climate-resilient jobs.
everyone must have equal access to education and to the labour market, because if we take social justice into account in all climate solutions, we can transform our society not only into a carbon-neutral society, but also into a socially better society for all europeans.
it has to be that: the climate demands it, the youth on the streets demand it, but also business leadership demands it.
when it comes to the eib, we also have to be very, very clear that that’s something that creates additional movement towards low carbon economy, and not just financing something that the public sector does anyway.
this money, too, must be able to be used for this purpose, for a sustainable transition, without compromising the objectives of cohesion policy.
the fund should also finance the transformation of industrial processes into low-carbon and climate-sustainable processes.
this is also necessary to prevent european industry from leaking carbon.
– mr president, the world’s biodiversity is reeling and it’s manmade.
we are not just destroying living conditions by increasing climate change, but also through the overconsumption of resources, overexploitation and the way we are producing our livelihoods – that is affecting the whole future of biodiversity and the flora and fauna of this planet.
so it’s obvious that the cop meeting on biodiversity has to be a similar meeting as paris was for climate.
this is a big part of protecting diversity and reversing the state of biodiversity.
(applause)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, biodiversity is not only a value in itself, but also an essential element in adapting to climate change.
the stronger the biodiversity, the better the ability of our planet to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead.
the biodiversity of the world is declining at an alarming rate.
that is why it is sad and unbelievable that the eu failed so badly in its biodiversity targets for 2020. restoration is important, but first we must be able to stop its decline.
if we are to stop the loss of biodiversity, we must intervene at the root.
the cap must be reformed to meet both the paris agreement and biodiversity objectives.
our forests are home to 80 percent of all species, and how we use our forests is absolutely essential to biodiversity.
there is much talk of deforestation and the offer of afforestation, but afforestation is not the answer to the loss of biodiversity.
mr president, three months ago in this parliament, in this house, we declared a climate emergency.
it was supposed to be ambitious climate leadership from europe, and now we are here today looking at a list where we continue funding fossil gas projects on a massive scale.
this is not the climate leadership that our youth and the climate movement are expecting of us.
the un environment programme’s emissions gap report called on the eu to refrain from any investment in fossil fuel infrastructure, including new natural gas pipelines.
we are locking our emissions to a level which is unsustainable for decades to come.
it must be a genuine partnership in education, trade and climate change solutions.
we cannot create a new energy infrastructure based on fossil fuels.
it is totally contrary to the paris agreement and totally contrary to the stated climate objectives that this parliament has set for itself and for the commission.
as these projects now move on to further consideration, i hope that in the further consideration the commission will look at these projects bearing in mind that this parliament has declared a climate emergency, this parliament has committed itself to the paris agreement and this parliament has committed itself to a carbon neutral europe.
therefore, projects that are in conflict with climate objectives should be removed from this list.
it also makes it impossible to invest in climate and to move towards a carbon-neutral society.
the ecb has the same obligation as everyone else to participate in climate work, and it is entirely possible within its mandate to do so, because if the mission is to maintain price stability, carbon risk is a big risk to price stability.
the same effort and the same amount of money should be able to be directed towards climate action.
if they were, our farms would already be carbon sinks instead of emission sources.
one-sided farming, which kills biodiversity, would already have been stopped, and pesticides, which are poisonous to both nature and humans, would no longer be used.
they have the know-how, but our common agricultural policy, our agricultural aid and this strategy must guide them in the direction of a more sustainable change in the principles of agriculture.
consumers are increasingly interested in ethical and ecological products.
therefore, aid should support ecological and ethical production models and labelling should help consumers to find these products in a reliable way.
these concrete floors are polluted, and i see environmental destruction.
the forests provide livelihoods, food, raw materials, energy and recreation, as well as wildlife.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are the group of decision-makers who have the opportunity and the responsibility to make decisions to solve climate change.
climate change is real, and if we don't make enough decisions, the economic and human costs will be enormous.
business and industry have asked for certainty about the regulatory environment in the years ahead, so that they can develop their own activities in line with it and so that investments are properly targeted.
because whether we like it or not, climate change is going to happen regardless of what we think.
the committee voted overwhelmingly in favour of a 60% reduction in emissions by 2030. now that the commission has further weakened its proposal, it is vital that this plenary session raises the ambition of the proposal.
in order to have a chance of surviving climate change, we cannot go below that 60%, and to keep our word to the millions of europeans who were elected to ambitious and adequate emission reduction targets.
the eu's climate action must not lead to finnish forests having to compensate for the carbon burning in germany and poland.
but there are good things about this climate house, like the recognition of the climate benefits of renewable materials and the emerging winners in the transformation of wood products, from massive wood construction to microscopic nanostructures.
the good thing about this is that it also aims to tackle industrial carbon leakage.
europe has the cleanest industry in the world and that is why the workplace here is a climate-deficit.
particularly in times of green deal, we can’t be blind to the carbon footprint of the applications, either.
– mr president, the state of the energy union report highlights both the successes and the failures of the european union in this field.
we have over-achieved the energy targets for renewable energy for 2020, but obviously these targets are still modest.
now when parliament is pushing for a higher ambition of 60% emission reductions by 2030, we have to look for a similar target for renewable energy to hasten the energy transition and also to make sure that it is european industries that create those jobs in energy revolution.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, as the ect is being modernised, it is essential to make it support the transition towards carbon-neutral societies.
at present it does not do so, but on the contrary, it allows companies to bring actions against states that want to change their legislation and thus their energy mix towards a sustainable carbon-neutral model.
the investment protection of the treaty protects fossil fuels, despite the fact that we know that they are significantly exacerbating the climate crisis.
it allows climate action to be blocked, watered down or rejected for fear that it will lead to a multi-billion euro lawsuit.
when we passed the climate act, we passed the clause that all our policies must be in line with the objectives of the climate act, the paris agreement, as it is written in the climate act.
it does not contain any targets for reducing emissions or solving the climate crisis, and this needs to change in a fundamental way.
for example, the eu's carbon tax is something that is sure to have widespread support.
firstly, this budget must launch a real transition towards a carbon-free europe, to implement the green transition to which we are all committed.
another important principle is that 30% of the budget should be used to combat climate change.
this should make it possible to address a specific problem in emerging energy markets, which are suffering the impact of covid, instead of removing a balanced system which we have agreed during the last mandate period.
are we the union that invests in climate action, research, innovation, the green transition and the future through the longterm financial framework?
mr president, the council has taken important decisions on climate.
european climate policy is often described as the eu doing more than ever before.
unfortunately, it now appears that the objective of climate adequacy is very difficult for the commission and the council.
the council adopted its position on the main elements of the climate law.
as far as the net allowance is concerned, this means that the actual reduction in emissions will be much lower, by various estimates, by between 3% and 10%.
this is bad news for the climate, but also for business and industry.
the climate act sets us a goal of being carbon neutral by 2050. this objective is also in the interests of the council.
if we do not set the intermediate target at a sufficient level now, we will have to make a strong correction in the coming years, and this will be much more costly and much more difficult than setting the target at a sufficient level now and thus guaranteeing a stable operating investment environment for business, industry and industry in the coming years and thus protecting jobs.
finally, mr president, both the longterm financial framework and the rescue package contain climate finance earmarked for the environment.