as we have just declared a climate emergency, how can we fail to understand that if we do not accelerate our fight against climate change, the disaster in australia will be our planetary drama tomorrow.
how can we not understand that we must fight climate-skeptics everywhere in the world, including here, because the consequences of ecological tragedies know no borders: from australia to chile, a toxic cloud has just crossed the world's largest ocean, an ocean rich in biodiversity.
i would like to recall that 80% of europe's biodiversity comes from overseas: it is with this legitimacy that i reaffirm the need for concrete actions to protect the environment and future generations and it is with this optimism that i declare that the european green deal must be based on overseas, which are territories of solutions.
it will take 250 years for the forest to recover to its original state and the losses in terms of biodiversity and co2 capture are irreversible.
while the influence of climate change is undeniable, it should be remembered that the free trade you advocate is one of the main causes.
and some even think that there is no climate change!
the ecological disaster in australia should be a collective warning to us, foreshadowing the ones we will face.
but let's be clear, it's not bad luck or the combination of circumstances that are to blame: it's the climate skeptics who continue to support the lucrative and polluting coal industry, those who prefer growth to the environment, those who organize the shortage by monetizing water, our common good.
when it comes to establishing international free trade agreements that promote an anti-ecological model, when you vote on the ecological emergency on monday and open the doors to the polluting lobbies on tuesday, please stop your double talk about the ecological emergency.
the liberal system you idolize is the source of the current and future climate catastrophes and your blind belief in the market will never save you.
madam president, 2020 was supposed to be the year of biodiversity, but the fires in australia remind us of the urgency of action.
while images of koalas or kangaroos in distress have shocked the world, they are only the visible and media-driven part of a global phenomenon, for which man is largely responsible: the unprecedented erosion of our planet's biodiversity.
food, oxygen, energy, medicine, raw materials, climate regulation, the services that our planet provides us are simply vital.
the european commission and the member states need to commit themselves more firmly to the next 2030 biodiversity strategy.
it makes no sense to make sure that we are going to be climate neutral in europe, in our own market, and at the same time let in products from all over the world that emit enormous amounts of carbon and do not have the same levels of ambition as the levels we impose on our own industry.
that is why i think that trade policy really needs to be used to make climate policy work, and that we need to make sure that we are climate neutral while also being able to protect our own industry.
while scientists have established an undeniable link between climate and these unprecedented mega-fires, scott morrison's conservative government continues to downplay the threat of global warming.
because coal accounts for 70% of the country's exports, it continues to defend these fossil fuel industries that cause climate change.
it is time to stop the catastrophe: let's really punish environmental crimes.
the work has only gained in importance since that moment and, in the light of the urgent transition to the circular economy, a sustainable product policy is a priority initiative in the european green deal, which has just been adopted by this commission.
the voluntary approach has therefore been very effective in reducing market fragmentation, enhancing consumer convenience and reducing the environmental impact without resorting to regulation.
it should also be noted that electronic waste is still one of the fastest growing waste streams, which makes this type of waste prevention particularly important.
in discussions with the industry, we continuously insist on the need to agree on a solution which would fulfil the following objectives satisfactorily: convenience for consumers, the safety and interoperability of chargers, and the reduction of electronic waste.
therefore, consumer convenience and the reduction of e—waste was not enhanced.
against the global backdrop of ever—increasing material use and resource extraction responsible for half of the total co2 emissions and environmental pressures, we consider this a missed opportunity.
for this option to achieve significant reduction in material use, e—waste and greenhouse gas emissions, it would have to be complemented by additional measures, for instance to mandate and/or incentivise the sale of mobile phones without the charger.
the study also assesses whether it is possible to extend the scope beyond smartphones and thus enhance benefits to both the consumer and the environment, taking into account technical issues such as different power needs.
consumers should definitely be given a central role, in particular if manufacturers are only allowed to sell mobile phones without the charger, which seems to be a promising option from the environmental point of view.
in the european green deal we have committed to support and accelerate the eu’s industry transition to a sustainable model of inclusive growth.
we have committed ourselves to mobilise industry for a clean and circular economy, including for a sustainable products policy and durable design of products, also giving priority to reducing and re—using materials before recycling them.
demand grows and with it waste and exploitation of natural resources.
we are drowning in an ocean of electronic waste.
around 50 million tonnes of e-waste is generated globally per year with an average of more than 6 kilograms per person.
thirdly, the commission should propose quality standards for treating e-waste and help member states to reach e-waste collection targets.
commissioner, this charger is very small, but the issue is big and very important for the environment and for european citizens.
we have to solve this for the sake of the consumers and for the sake of the environment.
it is unacceptable to european citizens that a measure which would help to combat waste, pollution and planned obsolescence should be blocked in this way.
in addition, the commission will have a real impact on e-waste by ensuring that chargers are sold separately from their appliances, to allow consumers to continue to use their old chargers.
the fight against climate change will not be undertaken at the level of luxembourg, the management of migration will not be exclusively greek, the defence of our continent cannot be reserved to estonia, our food sovereignty cannot be ensured by france or germany alone.
we need a vibrant, sustainable rural area in europe, and to have such a space we need farmers who work in the countryside and populate the countryside.
we must make great strides towards a sustainable, social and ambitious multiannual budget.
the presidency is committed to social sustainability, because no one should be left behind.
the president of the commission, ms von der leyen, and has mentioned the energy of your presidency.
it has helped lift billions out of poverty, but it is also responsible for the environmental tragedy we are facing today, and it has failed to make any significant improvements to the social situation on our continent.
yet, despite this observation, we are having a hard time changing our economic model, we are having a hard time getting rid of the obsession with gdp or the level of public debt, as if we have an irrational attachment to these indicators, when, rationally, they can't tell us anything about the state of inequality, the state of the environment or the state of poverty.
the own resources also do not seem sustainable, because of course, a plastic tax is almost by definition a disposable income.
but it's a revolution to get out of a model that has become obsolete in the face of the climate challenge.
it will not be a fair transition, but it will be another joke, if modernising the plants means using gas, a fossil fuel and a climate-changing source, especially without an assessment of the health impact.
the strategic importance of the green new deal is in rethinking the economy, transport, energy, turning europe into a source of inspiration, a leader in the fight against global warming.
finally, the proposal: the ets could have spent as much as 48 billion on climate action over the last three years, so let's use the revenues from the ets to fund the just transition fund.
so, i believe that we should support the european commission and its initiative to secure the future of our children and a good environment.
i know the future belongs to policies, which deliver without harming the environment.
i welcome the european sustainable investment plan as a key part of the green new deal.
i welcome the reform of the european semester through the sustainable development goals.
we also need to ensure that the recommendations received from the commission are implemented at national level in order to truly achieve the ambitious sustainable goals we have set for ourselves.
the just transition fund should be used to reduce regional disparities in the european union and help the most vulnerable, and the european investment bank should significantly increase climate finance.
madam president, commissioners, i am convinced that there can be no just ecological and digital transition without social anticipation and support.
the measures to combat energy poverty and the establishment of affordable solutions for those affected by carbon pricing measures are also important.
it is therefore imperative that we ensure the social acceptability of the transition to a more sustainable and climate-neutral economy.
we know that because of globalization, because of technology, because of energy transition, work is changing, and so we're going to have to invest new funds in new jobs.
we need more resources for fair and sustainable development, for example from the agricultural budget.
i am glad that the commission is stating its intention to combat climate poverty.
- the forest fires in australia make it painfully clear once again that action is simply very much needed against climate change.
and the european green deal only works if it is also supported by people and businesses and if we take their concerns seriously, because it doesn't make sense if people can't pay their bills or the rules for entrepreneurs change every year or innovations can't grow into affordable climate solutions.
those affected by industries that emit a lot of greenhouse gases, such as the coal industry, need a political response and strong support from the european union.
we must not abandon these workers, we must offer them opportunities for sustainable and secure jobs.
they need to be trained in new trades to enable them to work in the renewable energy sector or in the circular economy.
and the fund is to make sure that our citizens, those in these regions that are most at risk, have the confidence that climate neutrality by 2050 will be achieved with them, for them, and not somehow alongside them or against them.
environmental health, safety at work, protection of public services, housing, the fight against energy poverty, universal income, reduction of the number of homeless people - all these issues are the conditions for a just and necessary transition.
global warming is accelerating these inequalities, and they are helping to strengthen the arguments of the far right and destabilise our europe.
we can no longer leave it to other powers to shape our geopolitical environment without our voice being heard: europe has been talking, talking, it is time for action.
everything: climate change, migration, everything is geopolitical today, that's the buzzword.
the work is immense and we cannot afford to miss it if we want to implement a genuine european green, social and ecological pact.
the logic of free trade must be abandoned, a pact of solidarity and sustainable progress must be given priority over growth and competitiveness, social harmonization must be achieved from above rather than generalised dumping.
let us not waste another opportunity to give new meaning to the original ideal of the european project.
and i ask you, on behalf of this institution, which represents european citizens, on behalf of the ngos, who knock on the door of these institutions, on behalf of civil society, not to waste this opportunity to finally get us to work together with all those who represent european citizenship.
protection of peoples in the face of unbridled globalisation, defence of their identity, artificial intelligence, technological revolution or environment and ecology - your european model has failed us in everything.
we must focus on the content and give europe the opportunity to deal with them, starting with issues that have a tangible impact on people's lives, such as taxation, the fight against climate change, social policies but also foreign policy, which is a hot topic these days.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament has recently declared a state of ecological and environmental emergency.
to take a few examples: the target of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions was already the one set for the previous mandate.
it's not enough, we need to get to at least a 65 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 if we want to contain global warming.
the text refuses to commit to the deep and necessary reform of the common agricultural policy, while the text presented today by the commission does not allow for the ecological transition of agriculture.
as far as i know, there has been no journalist murdered in hungary and some here did not have the same energy a few weeks ago, when we were defending the rule of law, precisely.
– mr president, in november, this parliament declared the climate an environment emergency.
the european commission has taken it seriously, and one of its first decisions has been to launch the european green deal, the new agenda for sustainable growth in the european union, tackling the most serious climate and environmental challenges of our times.
this commission wants the european union to lead on both climate neutrality and the road to the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversit (cbd) in kunming in october 2020, where the world is to agree on the post—2020 global biodiversity framework.
the european union biodiversity strategy 2030, which we will adopt by march 2020, will include proposals for such eu commitments and will set out our ambition for kunming, including on global targets.
we failed twice to achieve our past ten-year biodiversity targets; we cannot allow ourselves to fail again.
science is perfectly clear that we need a holistic approach for transformative change to address the climate and environment emergency.
as regards the post-2020 global biodiversity framework, we fully support the european parliament’s demand for a stronger implementation mechanism and strengthen tools for accountability.
we need a systemic and regular cycle for reviewing implementation of the committed actions and progress in reducing the pressures on biodiversity.
we should agree on one or a small number of clear overarching long-term goals, similar to the 1.5-degree objective for climate change, in order to maintain political support through the period.
a stronger implementation and review mechanism will boost work under many environmental agreements.
let me highlight, in this context, the synergies with our important work on international ocean governance, and in particular with our ongoing negotiations on a new international treaty under the un convention of the law of the sea to protect marine biodiversity in the high seas.
the european union and its member states collectively lived up to the international commitment to double international biodiversity financing to developing countries.
we need financial flows from all sources to benefit nature and biodiversity more, including by mobilising domestic resources.
first, the world still spends much more on subsidies that are harmful to biodiversity than it spends on pro-biodiversity action.
we need much more progress on phasing out the subsidies and reshaping them to ensure that they are compatible and supportive to biodiversity conservation.
the quicker we protect the remaining valuable nature and we address the drivers of biodiversity loss, the less we will need to restore, if possible, and the cheaper it will be.
finally, we need to massively scale-up investments in climate—resilient, nature-based solutions which multiply benefits for biodiversity, climate—change mitigation and adaptation, food security, and finally, of course, health.
for the european union, leading by example means that we should make strong commitments to better protect and climate-proof the biodiversity—rich areas, to restore degraded ecosystems in nature across rural and urban landscapes, to sustainably use and manage our agricultural, forest and ocean resources, and to integrate biodiversity across policies and sectors, including in our outermost regions and territories.
we need to make sure that we deliver on our commitments, this time by creating the adequate enabling environment, from full implementation and enforcement of the eu’s nature legislation to potentially developing new legislation for restoring nature, mainstreaming biodiversity and providing adequate financing.
we need to guarantee that adequate resources are provided for the protection, restoration and sustainable use of ecosystems through the core eu funding instruments, such as the common agricultural policy, cohesion and regional funds, horizon europe, the external action financial instrument and life.
we also need to avoid exporting the damage of biodiversity outside the european union by consuming unsustainably produced and traded products.
this is why the future eu biodiversity strategy will need to address sustainable consumption and production, a reduction of the eu’s ecological footprint and the integration of biodiversity into our trade policy.
for example, we need to work with businesses and financial actors with the tools to account for their biodiversity dependency and impacts, so that they can take the right measures to support and contribute to biodiversity.
the window of opportunity to achieve our global biodiversity vision to live in harmony with nature is narrowing fast, and the next years will be crucial.
mr president, the un proposed on monday to protect 30% of the planet by 2030. for cop 15, 17 objectives are being put forward to enhance the value of life, reduce our impact on nature and link climate and biodiversity, which are two sides of the same coin: the survival of our planet.
let's make cop15 the equivalent of the paris climate agreement and take concrete action on the european continent now.
let us increase our protected areas, develop increased support for research and innovation, massively support our farmers, fishermen and forestry sector in the transition to more sustainable practices.
mr president, commissioner, europe, the european union, is facing unprecedented environmental challenges and biodiversity loss is one of them.
in fact, we may be entering what we can call the sixth mass extinction, and the european environment agency says so, because the number of species that are going extinct every day is the highest in the history of mankind.
we must face them, and that is what parliament wants to do with this resolution, to ask the commission for greater ambition in the new strategy for the protection of biodiversity and for that greater ambition in our european strategy to be the cover letter at the next meeting of the cop 15 in china.
10% of the new financial framework must be specifically linked to the protection of biodiversity and, of course, we must work together with all the actors involved in the key elements for the protection of biodiversity.
we will not achieve any of the objectives of the paris agreement, the european green deal, if we are not ambitious in this new biodiversity strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cop 15 in october will have to set targets for the next ten years on biodiversity.
we must not be complacent about climate change: human activity is clearly responsible.
we regret that neither the change of economic model, nor the questioning of free trade agreements, nor the need to re-establish internal and external borders within the european union appear to be your priorities in environmental protection.
there is an urgency: we are witnessing the disappearance of species that are directly affected by climate and environmental phenomena.
the health of our fellow citizens is threatened by air pollution, water pollution, land pollution, the logic of yield and the pressure of financial power.
why blame the citizen who needs his vehicle to work, when shipping companies, which produce more co2 than road transport, have no obligation to reduce their emissions?
you say you defend biodiversity, but you tell me that ritual slaughter is not a problem, in terms of religious freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution clearly illustrates the dramatic scale of the ecological emergency we are experiencing.
extreme weather events caused by ongoing climate change make the impact on biodiversity loss even more deleterious.
it is peacefully recognized that the current trend has devastating consequences for the whole of humanity and is such as to undermine the achievement of 80% of the sustainable development goals, with enormous increases in levels of poverty, food insecurity and damage to human health.
in the face of all this, the least the current european commission can do for the next cop 15 in china and the launch of the new eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 is to move beyond the logic of voluntary commitments and set the most ambitious legally binding targets for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystem services.
the extinction of species is accelerating at a rate we have never seen before, and we are facing a very serious ecological crisis.
the loss of biodiversity also has devastating consequences for us humans.
we really need to reduce the amount of chemicals in our environment and put a stop to it immediately, to reverse the trend we're seeing.
i am glad that we are aiming at binding targets for biodiversity.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing this evening your strategy on biodiversity in europe for 2030. that is very good, but there is already a european strategy for 2020, and it has failed completely.
none of the environmental protection objectives we set for europe will be met.
mr president, 75% of the terrestrial environment and 66% of the marine environment are threatened.
by destroying biodiversity, we are destroying ourselves.
it is now the ecological imperative which must overcome national logic if we are to defend our common future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest report from the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity is alarming: more than one million animal and plant species, or one in eight species, are now threatened with extinction.
first, on pesticides: according to scientists, intensive farming is one of the main causes of biodiversity loss.
secondly, on genetically modified organisms used to protect crops from pesticides: we banned the techniques that existed at the time in 2001, but the big manufacturers are trying to circumvent our regulations by introducing new gmos, which are equally dangerous to our environment.
rising temperatures, human activities, chemical and biological pollution, plastics of all kinds, all these elements are having devastating effects on this great barrier.
more generally, according to ipbes (intergovernmental scientific and policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services), two thirds of the marine environment has been significantly modified by human action.
let's have ambitious targets to rebuild marine biodiversity, let's have the ambition of 30 per cent marine protected areas, let's have the same ambition for 100 per cent of our ocean, this ocean that has been acting like a sponge for decades, but is beginning to run out.
first, it will improve animal and plant health and promote biodiversity.
i certainly expect a lot of support for biodiversity and adequate funding from the european union budget.
the climate emergency requires that we tackle this loss of biodiversity and these human-induced factors that threaten the future of humanity.
and when i talk about the future of humanity, i think about the impact of biodiversity loss on indigenous peoples.
nobody talks about these indigenous peoples, and yet they are part of the biodiversity conservation and they play a crucial role.
at the same time, this loss of biodiversity has consequences for developing countries, food sovereignty and the health of populations.
i'd like to put the loss of biodiversity down to three numbers and an insect.
protecting them is therefore not only necessary for the sake of animal welfare, biodiversity or the ecological balance, but also economically viable.
the bee is dying for four reasons: first, varroamilbe, second, global warming, third, monocultures, and fourth, pesticides, and most importantly, neonicotinoids.
the varro moth is going to be managed by beekeepers, and in climate action, i think we did our homework this morning on the new green deal.
mr president, commissioner sinkevičius, it is clear from the data and the facts that we urgently need a new binding strategy for biodiversity.
the fires in the arctic circle, the amazon and australia have brought to the fore in the most dramatic way the need to adopt binding targets for the conservation and restoration of biodiversity.
but first we must take up our responsibilities as the european union, with adequate funding from the new budget, by protecting biodiversity, by supporting clean food and its producers, and by involving businesses.
good practices for the protection of biodiversity by companies, such as business for nature, which is also being implemented in greece, can be our guide.
mr president, the european union must make the oceans one of the priorities of its biodiversity strategy.
biodiversity and healthy ecosystems, including oceans, which absorb more than 25% of co2 emissions and are the main supplier of oxygen, are key to achieving the objectives of the paris agreement and to strengthening the european union's resilience and adaptation to climate change, which will reduce ocean oxygen to 4% by 2100. and the effects of this oxygen depletion will be dramatic for habitats and coastal economies that depend on the oceans.
we need a zero-plastic ocean policy, we need to save the oceans, we need to prove that we want to win the battle of biodiversity.
but i want to warn you that when we talk about biodiversity, we tend to favor the easy solutions: more protected areas, 30% everywhere, stricter infringement procedures.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
our consumerism is also largely responsible for pollution.
mr president, the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2020 has failed.
the destruction and fragmentation of habitats, climate change, the introduction of invasive alien species into the environment are among the causes of biodiversity loss, which are inseparable from the dominant economic model and the policies that support it.
– mr president, i wish to thank members for their contributions and support for an ambitious biodiversity policy within the european union and globally.
let me reassure you that i have taken good note and listened carefully to your call for legally—binding targets, to your comments on pesticides, sustainable agriculture, deforestation and gene—drive organisms.
we are still discussing the biodiversity strategy internally, but action-oriented targets should be about integrating biodiversity across policies and sectors, including agriculture, forestry and fisheries, and about protecting and restoring nature.
i am particularly grateful to mr kokkalis, ms o’sullivan, mr melo and mr karleskind for raising the important role of oceans – not only for biodiversity but also for mitigating climate change.
as the commissioner for environment, oceans and fisheries, i am particularly sensitive to this topic, and i can reassure you that i will make sure that our green deal will also be a blue deal because, as you know, green without blue is only yellow.
i’m looking forward to collaborating with the parliament on implementing the european green deal on shaping an ambitious european union 2030 biodiversity strategy and on preparing for a successful biodiversity cop15 in october in kunming.
it will guide us when we finalise and adopt our biodiversity strategy over the coming weeks.
if the von der leyen commission is going to be the ‘geopolitical’ commission, and become more involved in migration issues, foreign policy, defence cooperation and in tackling the global climate crisis – alongside several eu agencies – then who will provide oversight of this work?
in 2019, the commission won the overall prize, which recognises initiatives having a visible and direct positive impact on the lives of people in europe and beyond for its work on the reduction of plastic pollution and awareness—raising about single—use plastics.
we must also use all our energy to ensure that an agreement is reached as soon as possible on the establishment of a common, mandatory and legally binding transparency register for interest groups.
they are numerous and organized to advance their private interests in the shadows, with the consequences we know: bank deregulation, energy subsidies of the past, and so on.
let us face the climate and environmental challenge, rather than adding the fires of war to the great global fire.
looking ahead, i want to assure them that we will do our best to negotiate a fruitful future relationship with the uk for the benefit of both parties while safeguarding the integrity of the single market, our high environmental and social standards, and citizens’ rights.
the added value of investment in science becomes very clear when the results come in, but they only come in when there is a solid, continuous and sustainable bet.
most troubling are the high numbers of indigenous leaders and activists killed every year in the defence of their ancestral lands and the environment – at least 40 persons every year.
such tragic crimes underline the high relevance of our policies on support to indigenous peoples and human rights defenders working on land, environment, biodiversity and climate.
indigenous peoples also feature highly in our enhanced attention to the human rights and environment and climate nexus.
during the european development days held in june of 2019, the eeas organised an event dedicated to the strengthening of international solidarity and support to indigenous peoples and environmental human rights defenders.
furthermore, the 21st annual eu ngo human rights forum meeting in december 2019 under the theme of building a fair environmental future had a specific session dedicated to indigenous peoples.
indigenous experts, including the un special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, along with indigenous youth, had prominent speaking roles, allowing them – together with the invited indigenous participants – to bring forward concerns as possible contributions of indigenous peoples in building a fair environmental future.
we are looking for solutions to climate change.
80% of the planet's biodiversity, which is crucial to any strategy to combat climate change, is in indigenous territories.
mr president, despite being systematically discriminated against or oppressed by colonial states, indigenous peoples are vital to the preservation of our ecological balance, because for them their ecosystems are an intrinsic part of their identity.
it has been said that indigenous peoples have defended their homes, their environment, throughout the centuries; and by defending their homes, they have defended the homes of all.
today we know that many, many endangered species are preserved because they have defended biodiversity, their environment, sometimes with their lives.
vandana shiva told us 20 years ago: in most cultures, women have been the guardians of biodiversity.
they produce, reproduce, consume and conserve biodiversity in the practice of agriculture.
in australia, aboriginal people have seen their lands ravaged by mega-fires whose scale is closely linked to global warming.
the time has come for ecology: let us protect the future by reconciling humans and nature, social justice and environmental justice, the rights of indigenous peoples and universalism.
madam president, madam commissioner, if this situation is keeping you up at night, then i ask you to find the conviction and energy to bring your friends from the commission and your friends from the council together to find immediate solutions.
madam president, let me remind you of a simple truth: the cleanest energy is the energy we do not consume.
you are right in suggesting that we should reduce transport pollution.
but how can you not think that you are suffering from a kind of schizophrenia, because having noticed that the planet is suffocating with the development of transport, you are trying to implement a model based on free trade, nomadism, that is to say in practice the infinite development of transport, and we see in the world the ballet of supercargo trucks carrying goods and even waste.
it is this mercantilist conception of man that puts you in the middle of an ecological contradiction.
the commission's proposals on mobility and transport to reduce co2 emissions by 2030 are very ambitious, but we must face reality.
i wanted to tell you about leah, who i met at a civil disobedience action on climate, who hopes for a total break with the economic model that is destroying our planet.
the ambition of a climate law might have reassured her, but what a surprise she will be when she discovers that your green pact is pursuing the dogma of growth at any cost, without questioning its impact on the climate.
leah, like all the young people mobilized for the climate, demands consistency.
leah wants a real green new deal, social and ecological, and that requires means.
your revision of the european semester should give the states the financial leverage to invest in the ecological transition.
if you are not doing it for our group of the european united left or for the members of parliament here in this house, then do it for léa, marie, pierre, kevin and so many other european citizens who will not forgive you if you persist in continuing this year the same recipes that are responsible for the climate crisis and the explosion of inequalities.
the universal charger is an ecological, social and it is the simplest measure today to reduce our electronic waste.
if we cannot act to put in place the universal charger, how can we act for the planet and the ecological emergency?
for the gue/ngl group madam president, we are asking for a postponement of the vote because the text on both the free trade agreement and the investment protection agreement clearly runs counter to what we voted a few weeks ago on both the climate emergency and the european green deal.
it is an agreement whose chapter on sustainable development, in particular, is neither binding nor enforceable.
– madam president, the european parliament has been calling in our green deal resolution – not long ago, actually, this year – for binding and enforceable sustainable development chapters.
also, the commission, which was just recently elected, has been saying that the sustainable development goals (sdgs) are a key part of their agenda.
however, the fta was negotiated without such a commitment before parliament asked, in january, for this binding trade and sustainable development chapter.
the authorisation of these products undermines our animal welfare, environmental and health rules and is detrimental to european farmers.
moreover, this parliament has made compliance with the paris climate agreement an absolute condition for future trade agreements.
any new debt affects the debt sustainability of a country, whether it has been used to finance sustainable investment or not.
before the financial markets turn off the faucet, they will not ask whether or not there has been sustainable financing and investment.
but if the revision is limited to integrating the un's sustainable development goals, as it seems to be, then it is as good as pissing in a violin.
the whole architecture of european economic governance needs to be reviewed to respond to the two challenges of our time: the inequality crisis and the climate crisis.
this revision of the european semester cannot be cosmetic, because austerity will never be ecological or social.
the changes that took place have helped the countries to reform economic policy and have brought the fiscal policy in the eu and the euro area closer to a sustainable path.
but the mission is far from completed, because this is permanent work to perform just, responsible and sustainable fiscal policy.
as a key tool for economic governance, fiscal policy has an important role to play in ensuring a balanced, prosperity-oriented economic policy, and any future reorientation of economic governance must therefore be primarily geared to social progress and the strengthening of social and environmental infrastructure.
in the fight against climate change, but also for digital transformation, we need more european union to have a coordinated investment offensive across europe, and we need more state for public investment.
how can we reduce the enormous social and regional disparities if we do not combine sustainable development with secure public finances?
the number of degrees of warming, the cost of climate change, the cost of social distress, for example.
a responsible economy is one that encourages the transition to carbon neutrality by, for example, taking green investments out of the public deficit calculation.
that is why i ask you, ladies and gentlemen: let us take advantage of the announced revision of the european budgetary framework to move beyond the dogma of austerity and respond to the climate emergency.
small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the european union are facing challenges related to increased global competition, the emergence of new business models, digitalisation, climate change, the deployment of new technologies in both industry and services, and the development of the circular economy.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development cannot be achieved without smes, given their enormous importance for social, economic and environmental development.
at the same time, they are essential for a just transition to a sustainable economy that creates jobs.
efforts to bring other regions, communities together for a sustainable transition must be stepped up continuously so that no one is left behind.
the next item is the joint debate on - the oral question to the commission on the revision of the guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructure, by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000012/2020 - b98/-00020) (2020/2549(rsp), and - the objection under article 111 of the regulation: union list of projects of common interest (2019/2907 ((dea))
author.
– mr president, the regulation on guidelines for trans—european energy infrastructure lays down rules for the timely development and interoperability of ten—e networks, identifying the trans-european energy infrastructure priorities which need to be implemented in order to meet the union’s energy and climate policy objectives.
the ten—e regulation sets priority corridors and thematic areas of trans—european energy infrastructure and provides guidelines for the selection of projects of common interest (pci).
for that evaluation, i would like to remind you that the commission should consider inter alia the union energy and climate targets for 2030, the eu long—term decarbonisation commitment and energy efficiency as a first principle.
energy plays a central role in the transition to a net—zero greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions economy, and therefore efforts to continue decarbonising the energy systems are necessary to enable the union to reach its ambitious target and be world leader, while at the same time ensuring a coherent and inclusive transition of other sectors, maintaining the security of energy supply in the union and coping with an increased demand for electricity.
with the aim of achieving its climate and energy goals and enhancing innovation, sustainability and growth, it is at the same time very important to remain competitive worldwide.
the union needs an up-to-date, high—performance energy infrastructure that is future-proof, cost-efficient and can provide a security of energy supply, including diversification of root sources and suppliers.
priority corridor scenarios, as well as eligibility criteria, should follow the evolution of the energy system and continue to be consistent with union policy priorities, in particular in the context of long—term decarbonisation pathways.
adequate infrastructure, deployment and energy efficiency projects and policies should be used in a complementary way to help reach the union’s objectives and targets.
building on the success of the energy union, we need to strengthen our efforts to improve energy efficiency, speed up deployment of clean energy and technologies, increase interconnectivity, and also of course further integrate our energy single market.
the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) welcomes the announcement in the european green deal communication that the revision of the ten—e guidelines will take place in 2020 and asks for a clear timetable.
may i remind you that the very same infrastructure will be able to be used in not so many years from now to transport biogas and hydrogen, and also – during the transition phase – gas pipelines and interconnections, which play an important role in ensuring the energy security supply, affordability and sustainability.
we need a balanced and realistic approach to achieve our common goal of carbon neutrality, and i would like to remind you that we still have 41 coal regions to support and sustain in a just and inclusive transition.
the planet is dying, and report after report, experts are reminding us that we must abandon fossil fuels to stop climate change.
yet, far from its environmental commitments and in total contradiction to its declarations of good faith, the union is about to declare a list of energy projects as a priority, of which more than one third are fossil gas projects.
no, really, something is wrong when the union wants to inject almost €29 billion into climate-killing projects.
mr president, as one of the 17 meps who supported the veto against the 4th pci list during the last vote in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i can unequivocally confirm my intention to vote against this list again.
we all want the energy revolution as soon as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
we need gas as a bridge to the energy transition, especially in eastern europe.
the transition from 80% coal to renewable energy, as in poland, is of course only possible with flexible gas power stations that ensure energy security.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the environment.
they know very well that an energy revolution only works with this list, with gas infrastructures, with new electricity grids.
we like to do that because we take sustainability and responsibility seriously.
and then the prevailing view, and legally no one can dispute it, is that if we reject this list, the third list comes back into force which is undeniably worse, it is undeniably against environmental objectives.
so the point now is to work so that in the next list there is first of all full involvement of parliament, madam commissioner, and above all to work, from now on until the resolution that will be presented in march, so that we can also in this timeframe take up all those elements that can not only change and perhaps revise the projects or put the most critical projects at the bottom of the priorities, but also decide how we must work so that in the next choices there is strict respect for the environmental objectives and the issues set by all our choices on transition and decarbonisation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must develop our transfrontier energy networks to ensure that our citizens have access to energy that is safe, secure and sustainable.
it is the european commission's, which, driven by the mobilisation of young people for the climate, claimed to make the ecological emergency its priority.
however, her studies were clear: a reduction in natural gas consumption was essential to reach carbon neutrality by 2050. but we shouldn't have bothered our friends in the gas lobby.
by voting against, you will refuse to finance anti-environmental projects and put an end to the commission's double-talk.
the prosperity of our farmers and their families, the sustainability of local agricultural production and specific supply regimes are at stake.
it is not, because we have huge challenges to face together: climate change, terrorism, cyberattacks, viruses that ignore borders.
if we cannot reach an agreement on fisheries, there will be great tensions at sea and the disaster could be great, not only from an economic point of view but also from an ecological point of view.
for years, we have been denouncing the ecological aberration of supply chains that circle the globe three times.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have declared a climate emergency, we voted for the green deal just a month ago, and tomorrow we are asked what?
this agreement, unlike our promises in the european green deal resolution, does not include any binding mechanism on the sustainable development chapter.
if progress has been made with the ratification of international conventions, we must be uncompromising about respecting the chapter on sustainable development.
fighting illegal fishing is obviously about ensuring sustainable management of fisheries resources, but it is also about ensuring that we avoid unfair competition with fishermen who are subject to the constraints we have on our continent.
in this period of uncertainty and digital and ecological transition, i welcome your initiative to launch the review of the ecb's monetary policy strategy, which will have to take account of all these changes.
in addition, despite your commitment to the ecb's full independence, you have stated that you want to make climate change a priority subject in order to meet the commission's expectations.
this is the condition for making multilateralism work and achieving the sustainable development goals.
when you say 'i will not accept a budget where less than 25% is spent on combating climate change', i would add: and if the other 75% is used to make climate change worse, then we are obviously wrong.
i know that you do not think so, but i believe it is important to ensure that the whole european budget is consistent with the ecological and solidarity-based transition.
the speeches we hear and the speeches we make are about fighting climate change.
the european union must have the courage to finance itself with its own resources, by finally introducing a carbon tax and by introducing and implementing a truly courageous web tax.
today, the draft mff presented by the finnish presidency and the commission's objectives are to sacrifice our agriculture - minus 17% of the budget devoted to it - and to increase the budget devoted to climate objectives to 25 or even 33%.
the von der leyen commission is setting ambitious targets on climate, on digitalisation, on its geopolitical role.
of the 2014-2020 programming period, almost €100 billion has been invested in the environment and climate through this policy.
in greece, with the help of european union funds, the new democracy government - in the wake of syriza - is closing down lignite plants, leading to unemployment for over five thousand workers and depriving the country of the possibility of exploiting domestic sources, while increasing its dependence on imported energy for which the people pay dearly.
we need sufficient financial resources to have a cohesive, solidary, competitive, productive european union, a european union where there is sustainable and environmentally friendly growth.
in addition, the carbon market, the emissions from that market, and, in addition, at the borders, the carbon market will also be an important revenue source for the european union.
i hope that the council will do the right thing and not betray the citizens of the european union, that it will not harm farmers, the poorest regions, rural development and that it will also help to promote growth that is friendly to the environment.
because if some of you think that the transition to a carbon-neutral economy is going to happen without supporting our farmers, without supporting our businesses, without supporting our regions and without supporting our workers, you have a real problem.
the european union's budget for the next seven years is the one that will enable europe to respond to the climate challenge and the social emergency.
a combat budget is an overall budget that increases at least by 1.3% of gross national income to enable the european union to carry out its ecological transition.
a combat budget is a budget of which at least 50% is devoted to environmental protection to preserve the climate.
finally, a combat budget puts the tax tool at the service of social justice and the ecological transition, for example by properly taxing carbon emissions, kerosene and financial transactions.
and to save the climate, how much are we going to put in?
the solution would be to develop own resources to have a very ambitious 'climate' budget, without asking a single euro from modest families or member states.
in addition, funding has been cut from exactly where the needs of the future lie: security, digitalisation and the fight against climate change.
in addition to agricultural and regional policy, the new budget must be able to meet the challenges of the future: industrial reform and sustainable growth, in particular innovation, digitalisation, support for the growth and training of smes, and, more broadly, security policy.
firstly, the connecting europe facility (cef), which will finance crossborder transport, energy and digital infrastructure: as rapporteur for the committee on industry, i find it astonishing that the council is proposing cuts to the programme at a time when both european competitiveness, a functioning internal market and the fight against climate change require fast, modern connections.
paradoxically, i should like to thank raphaël glucksmann for his speech, the last word of my...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you have just voted for a free trade agreement with vietnam which tramples on the environment and human rights, for the sole purpose of satisfying the lobbies which have otherwise given you champagne.
you are directly responsible for an ecological disaster which will increase the transport of goods between the european union and vietnam by 20 to 30%, accelerate deforestation, and worsen the development of polluting industries such as leather and steel.
but talking about a green deal with tremors in your voice doesn't stop you from voting for such a climate-killing agreement.
the ngos have warned you, you could not ignore the disastrous ecological and social impact of this agreement.
this agreement is bad for democracy, for workers and for the environment.
the agreement is also harmful to the environment because it does not provide for any mechanism to ensure that the objectives set by international environmental agreements are met.
not to mention the increase in greenhouse gas emissions that will result from the intensification of this trade.
the real question is therefore whether we should maintain this status quo or whether we should try to stop vietnam by drawing it to our side and making it adopt, as it has done, environmental objectives, human rights objectives and, of course, also by making it trade with us under rules which open up its markets to us with a genuine requirement of reciprocity.
vietnam is also a communist dictatorship which does not respect human rights or the environment; so it is hypocritical to claim that this agreement will miraculously make him an example.
madam president, i supported the resolution today and am supporting a trade deal with vietnam because i believe that trade agreements offer opportunity to engage on all areas, such as the environment, human rights and social standards.
i think it’s important that we have monitoring in place to ensure the effective implementation of all the commitments that have been made in these negotiations with regard to environmental standards, social standards and human rights.
as the ppe standing rapporteur for the southeast asian region and having guided the agreement with singapore through this house last year, i’m well aware of the enormous potential these agreements have to boost our trade exchanges with this region, bringing positive effects on growth and employment and in terms of a secure investment environment.
my colleagues explained yesterday why this agreement is in complete contradiction with the will to combat global warming and with the european green deal.
what common interest are you talking about when you support the development of gas infrastructure, when gas accounts for 20% of global co2 emissions?
what common interest are you talking about when you choose to pour 29 billion euros of public money into these climate-killing projects?
you are completely discrediting this parliament by applauding the climate emergency with both hands, while at the same time writing a blank check to the polluting multinationals.
the common interest is the opposite of these absurd and useless projects, it is to face the climate catastrophe and give us a chance to respond, starting by leaving fossil fuels in the ground.
while the un has included the eradication of gender-based violence as one of its sustainable development goals by 2030, it is still estimated that 200 million girls and women worldwide are still subject to female genital mutilation, and that 600 000 women in europe are still subject to it.
the persistence of the free trade ideology that crushes the peoples of europe and destroys our ecosystem, the introduction of an arbitration mechanism that usurps the sovereignty of the peoples of europe for the benefit of private courts, the attachment to the system of greenhouse gas emission quotas as if market mechanisms could respond to the climate crisis and the ambition, finally, of enhanced cooperation in the military field in partnership with nato, a bellicose and outdated alliance.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your commitment and energy in bringing this equality strategy to fruition.
we can see a situation such as: labelling of meat such as beef, details of what the animal was fed, hours inside, carbon footprint, fertilisers used, price given to the farmer.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the farm to fork strategy can be the mechanism through which several objectives can be achieved: quality food, affordable prices or the fight against climate change.
however, the agricultural sector cannot be held solely responsible for the decline of biodiversity or the depletion of natural resources.
farmers must be seen as part of the solution and not part of the problem when it comes to fighting climate change.
access to research, to precision agriculture as a guarantee of the sustainability of the agricultural sector must, however, be equally distributed among farmers in the member states.
farm to fork also means implementing measures to reduce food waste, which accounts for 25 to 30% of food production; it is also to reduce the use of chemical pesticides and to facilitate market access for organic substances and products.
madam president, commissioner, the proposal for the reform of the cap is being discussed today by the european parliament on the basis of a copy prepared by the previous mandate, which does not correspond to the expectations of this new mandate, which has already voted on the climate emergency.
however, the cap remains, and must remain, a powerful lever to support and finance the agro-ecological transition of european farmers.
how could the objectives of the green deal be achieved without mobilising the cap, which today has no clear common objective of reducing pesticides, protecting biodiversity, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and achieving food sovereignty?
as regards alternatives and the risk of undermining food sovereignty, today we must bring the obligations of protecting biodiversity and protecting the climate together, while continuing to produce a lot.
only in this way can we enable our farmers to live well and meet the challenge of the ecological agriculture of tomorrow.
only a climate where political and civic space is respected and human rights violations come to an end can create conditions conducive for such a dialogue.
they must all include the issue of child labour through binding and enforceable chapters on human rights and sustainable development.
making children work to export products as cheaply as possible to europe, with a minimum social, environmental and human cost: this is the ultra-liberal and productivist model that the european union defends and which leads to situations of exploitation of child labour, as is the case in the mines in madagascar.
it explains how intellectual and collective protection measures can help contain the peak of the epidemic while maintaining the sustainability of health systems and economies.
it is also the relationship of our societies to their environment.
mr president, the united states, nato and the european union are competing with russia for energy control, leading to the break-up of syria and waves of uprooted refugees.
there's no time to waste.
it is the only way to ease the strain on the epidemic today and the climate challenge tomorrow.
they will not block if these new resources go to a marshall plan for climate and jobs.
we need a marshall plan for climate and jobs.
climate ambitious, by placing the european green deal and climate neutrality at the heart of our recovery strategy.
parliament has understood this well: the re-launch and ecological transition of our economies require a real community leap forward.
the alternative exists and this parliament is reiterating it: new own resources from the digital giants, polluting emissions and financial transactions, to launch a major reconstruction plan based on transfers of lost funds, ready by summer.
be assured, however, that i, for my part, will do everything i can with my colleagues in the european council to ensure that we not only do not fight a futile battle at institutional level, but that we are mobilised, with our hands folded, on the issues that are now on the table: what is the amount needed for the mff and for the recovery fund, how is it to be financed, how is the borrowing and the subsidies to be distributed to ensure that there is this capacity to forge a political compromise that is useful for european citizens, how is the digital agenda to be successful, how is this climate agenda to be successful?
it should deliver on our biodiversity targets.
yes to our own resources, if they are used to demand more from the giants of the web and finance, from those outside europe who do not respect our social and environmental standards.
the financing of the european union was always based on own resources, on vat, on customs duties, and what we propose now is a digital tax and other taxes against pollution.
we must urgently equip ourselves with our own resources, that is, we must actually arm ourselves politically to face the challenges of the time, namely the climate emergency, the social crisis and the necessary transformation of our economy.
we need our own resources to finance a reconstruction plan, and to restore fiscal justice, including taxing financial transactions and carbon emissions.
solidarity means looking at ecological and social justice.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, in just three days, almost a million citizens have already signed the letter from avaaz saying that they are counting on you to make this climate and jobs budget a success.
it is time for financial markets to contribute to a 'climate and jobs' pact.
in the face of the coronavirus and the climate challenge, heads of state and eu institutions have a unique responsibility: not to miss history and finally to give a new meaning to the word solidarity.
there is no better environment for ensuring estonia's security and well-being.
this parliament, with a broad majority, has shown a way forward with a substantial recovery fund, a strong mff – a strong budget – and a green deal that helps the economy while addressing the climate crisis and the biodiversity crisis which have gone nowhere.
to be meaningful in the long term, both the recovery fund and the mff need to incentivise the social and ecological transformation of our economy and promote gender equality – a big problem we’ve seen in this crisis.
we welcome the creation of own resources, such as the plastic tax or the carbon tax, which, in addition to having laudable ecological objectives, will partly lighten the burden on the states.
let's free states from the burden of debt so that we can take the time to calmly decide what direction we want to give our societies in the face of the climate crisis and inequality.
instead, we should make public support conditional on social, ecological, wealth-sharing, job-preservation, dividend freezes or ecological conversion measures.
innovation, social and ecological change, the hydrogen economy, digitisation, strengthening social systems - i don't read enough for that.
we must prepare the world of tomorrow, the world in which future generations will live with the prospect of imminent health or ecological collapse.
this is a major step forward, i could even call it historic, if it had been more ambitious, if we had concrete guarantees to move forward on the path of a real transformation of our economies, of ecological transformation, without the risk of returning to the path of the flight forward.
we need a lot more money for climate.
and finally, let's listen to the climate scientists, the cancer scientists, the farmers, the environmentalists, the health care workers, the youth, rather than those who talk about austerity, deficits and growth.
mr president, the resolution before you contains the text supported by all the parliamentary groups in the committee on fisheries, which reiterates the fundamental principle that michel barnier strongly advocates in the negotiations: there can be no agreement with the united kingdom that does not incorporate a long-term, balanced, sustainable agreement on fisheries, allowing reciprocal access to waters and resources between the partners that are now the european union and the united kingdom.
finally, it is an ecological issue because the common fisheries policy has enabled us, for years, to implement a fisheries policy with the british that respects biodiversity.
and i think we all realise that the current geopolitical context, the global economic environment, is probably the most difficult in recent history.
and here again, your europeanist vision is damaging both to producers and to the environment.
madam president, what we are witnessing in the amazon is unfortunately a foretold tragedy, it is an attack on the environment and an attack on indigenous communities, who are being decimated first by the occupation of their lands and now by the abandonment to which they are being voted in the context of the covid-19 pandemic.
under no circumstances should we encourage practices that encourage governments to break climate rules and contribute to climate change.
the commission's initiative for a legislative proposal in 2021 actually sets conditions so that products which do not comply with environmental criteria do not reach the european market, and i would like to thank you for that, commissioner.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is protected.
of course they have their responsibilities, but let us not forget - it has been said and i want to emphasize this point - that deforestation, that these crimes against the planet, biodiversity, life, that the taking of indigenous lands, that their own genocide, all this is also our responsibility.
i was dismayed by the statement of the environment minister, ricardo salles, who wanted to use the fact that the whole world is looking to the pandemic to deregulate and simplify environmental legislation.
the minister of the environment of the bolsonaro government made the following proposal in one of the recent cabinet meetings: "now that the media is only talking about covid, we must use this moment of calm to change all the regulations" "regulations that so far prevent mining and agriculture in protected areas".
it would be absurd - and yes, it is our responsibility, mr durand - if we as the eu were to conclude some kind of trade agreement with this government, which has been shown not to believe a word of its promises under the sustainability chapter of the agreement.
we must include instruments in our trade policy to prevent crimes against indigenous peoples and the environment.
social and environmental standards in international agreements must be made binding and enforceable.
our co-responsibility if we continue to go straight for the wall with trade agreements which have today proved their inability, i say their inability, to enforce the question of environmental law.
so, commissioner, when you say that the sustainable development chapter, which is now mandatory in trade agreements and in mercosur, but not merely mercosur, in all trade agreements, when you say that this tsd will be able to regulate, well no, commissioner, this sustainable development chapter does not regulate anything, it organises discussions but it does not sanction non-respect for the environment.
so what we are asking you for is not marketing, it is not new language, it is coercion, it is sanctions and therefore trade agreements, yes, but trade agreements, which are new generation but really new generation, which actually allow sanctions to be imposed on countries, such as brazil, such as other countries, which do not respect these rights and we are also asking that there should be a duty of vigilance for european multinationals and that when they invest in countries which do not respect human rights, which do not respect environmental rights, they, wherever they are, should have the possibility to lodge complaints.
at that time, a voluntary approach had succeeded in limiting the damage, notably by strengthening the brazilian environmental protection agency and creating a fund to support forest conservation projects.
this policy also breaks with the commitments made by brazil at the copenhagen climate conference.
the amazon rainforest, vital to the lives of indigenous peoples, the lungs of humanity, an extraordinary reservoir of biodiversity, is being destroyed.
it is responsible not only for deforestation but also for the pollution of rivers and streams with pesticides, the destruction of the habitats of many animal species and the land grabbing at the expense of farmers.
at the same time, bolsonaro is dismantling environmental protection, promoting illegal logging and violating the rights of indigenous peoples.
climate change and the current crisis show that now is the time to act.
a more just world, a more united world, a world that puts people and the environment back at the centre of every action we take for our survival.
criminal against indigenous peoples, criminal against our common heritage of global biodiversity, criminal against future generations.
we say yes to greater environmental sustainability, but without compromising the economic sustainability of our businesses.
the social and ecological conversion is a key project - we all agree - for the future of europe.
this requires a climate change policy that is committed to the goals of the paris agreement.
if you are really concerned about climate protection, why do you insist on a trade agreement such as the one with mercosur?
but it would be a sensible step towards reconciling the contradictions between the member states in the corona crisis with the aim of a more socially just, ecological and democratic european union.
they're going to ban climate change and make the chinese laugh a little bit less in the future.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy.
but i am advocating that we not only talk about money, but also develop political union, strengthen europe on issues such as foreign and security policy, innovation, climate change, external trade and all the other issues where we need a strong europe.
in the light of the proposals now on the table, additional funding must be directed towards new growth: education, research, defence, digitalisation, the transition to a carbon-neutral society and infrastructure investment.
a sustainable europe needs to deliver on the green deal.
if it pursues its environmental, digital and social ambitions without wavering in confidence-destroying economic conditionality, the german presidency has all the conditions to be a positive milestone in the future of the eu.
we worked a lot on plastic waste and on the emissions trading scheme (ets).
to continue, i also would like to underline the fact that this would also help us to create the new tools not only for sustainable economic recovery, but also for clear demonstrations that our democratic rules will always prevail even in times of crisis.
secondly, that we keep our promises and finance, according to our promises, the new priorities – digitalisation, greening, protecting the environment, research, development, innovation, external borders, migration.
our commitment and solidarity with future generations also requires transforming our economy to address the challenges of climate change and the digital revolution.
i mean, won't all of this go to waste to useless uses, to taxation, what do i know?
the conditions must be found in investing in the ecological and solidarity-based transition and in investing in the digital transition.
who can guarantee here in this house that parliament will have a say in ensuring that the funds are not allocated without a social and ecological counterpart?
then, by implementing a vast ecological reconstruction plan, financed by taxation of multinational corporations, polluters and billionaires.
and we have a clear vision of the levers we have, we know that the climate agenda, we know that the digital agenda must be priorities.
the question of the quality of education, the question of the environment, the question of reducing inequalities, access to quality health care without discrimination are certainly parameters that we must take into account when measuring the progress that is possible thanks to this european project that must unite and not divide.
and the climate conditions are not improved by empty trucks, thousands of empty trucks, going around europe.
how can we fail to see that, in the face of the combined ecological, social and democratic crises, our institutions must imperatively protect europeans, their jobs and our economies, without turning away from the objective of safeguarding the climate?
the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the council decision of 28 june 2014 on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part (oj l 295, 30.10.2014, p. for this reason, on 30 june the fatf renewed pakistan's inclusion in the list of countries under enhanced surveillance.
opportunity to implement prevention, in particular prevention through education on basic hygiene measures and compliance with the green pact ambitions on nutrition, pollution, global warming.
we have no more time to waste, signor borrell!
and beyond the creative europe programme we will very soon launch a targeted support to the disproportionately hit music sector through the music moves europe initiative and there we plan to shift about eur 2.5 million in this year to help the sector become more sustainable after the crisis.
finally, given the chosen slope, that of sacrificing ecological objectives, the fledgling european green deal is likely to disappear quietly into the mirages of the resilience plan, which seems to be mistaken for a conventional recovery plan.
a genuine historic agreement would have consisted in not being enthusiastic because we have managed to increase our debts again, in preparing for our future by reorienting european union policies in depth so that we can become stronger, in adapting our competition policies to rebuild our industry or in finally deciding on this carbon tax, which no one has managed to bring to fruition at the frontiers of the single market, instead of postponing this debate further.
(start of intervention outside micro) ... money for health, climate and employment without asking more from national budgets.
fifty billion euros, 15 billion to pay off the common debt and 35 billion more for health, climate and employment.
we want another 50 billion for health, climate and jobs.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the council on the strategic approach to medicinal products in the environment by cristian-silviu buşoi, günther sidl, jan huitema, michèle rivasi, simona baldassarre, joanna kopcińska and kateřina konečná, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000040/2020 - b9-0015/20) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the strategic approach to medicinal products in the environment by cristian-silviu buşoi, günther sidl, jan huitema, michèle rivasi, simona baldassarre, joanna kopcińska and kateřina konečná, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000040/2020 - b9-0015/20).
i am particularly honoured to be able to convey the council's position on this important subject, mr president, because you are quite right: there is growing evidence that residues of certain medicinal products in soil and water pose a major risk to animal and human health and may also cause environmental damage.
antimicrobial resistance is a major obstacle to the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
the council is aware of the environmental risks associated with the manufacture, use and disposal of medicinal products.
it stresses that actions must be consistent with the concept of 'one health', which takes into account the interaction between human and animal health and the environment.
for this reason, ministers in both the environment and health councils welcomed the commission's communication on the eu strategic approach to medicines in the environment.
these improvements, which can be achieved at all stages of the life cycle of medicinal products, contribute to the achievement of the goal of a sustainable development of europe by 2030. the commission is also right to take the view that, in order to be effective, the measures should not only include end-of-pipe checks, such as improved waste water treatment.
they should also consider the original sources of emissions, such as production, disposal and use.
the eu is a strong global player, particularly on environmental issues, and we all have a duty to strengthen cooperation on this important issue at international level.
in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the commission's communication on medicinal products in the environment focuses on actions that will start, be launched and in some cases be completed in 2020. the commission has stated that it will take stock of the progress made and decide on further steps.
the council is prepared to review all the results in the light of this proposal and, if necessary, to re-examine its position in the interests of the environment and the protection of animals and humans.
there is overwhelming evidence that traces of pharmaceuticals in water and soil endanger wildlife such as fish, birds and insects, and have an adverse impact on the environment.
at the same time, we must avoid that there is an undue impact of pharmaceuticals on the environment, because this is the other aspect of which the pandemic has reminded us so strongly: that our health and well—being depends so heavily on a healthy environment.
in 2019, the commission put forward the european strategic approach to pharmaceuticals in the environment.
the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals (reach) regulation already reduces emissions during manufacturing of pharmaceuticals through authorisation of used substances.
but an effective reduction of the impact of pharmaceuticals on the environment cannot be achieved at eu level without strong engagement also at the level of national health authorities, the pharmaceutical industry and health professionals.
in the medicines area, we have started working with member states’ health ministries, for instance to make sure health professionals are aware of environmental impacts, and we encourage initiatives taken in some nordic countries to use public procurement as a tool to promote pharmaceuticals that are produced in a green manner.
the european medicines agency is currently working on updated guidelines on environmental risk assessment for human medical products, and in the waste sector, new guidelines will be developed on collecting schemes for unused medicines.
we will, of course, continue to address pharmaceuticals in the environment in very concrete actions and the various upcoming deliverables under the european green deal, like the chemicals strategy and the zero—pollution action plan, and also under the upcoming pharmaceutical strategy, which my colleague stella kyriakides is preparing for the end of the year.
furthermore, in the follow-up to the evaluation of the urban waste water treatment directive, we are looking at ways to tackle micropollutants, including pharmaceuticals, which still pass through our waste water treatment plants.
all these are concrete examples that illustrate the progress we are making to alleviate the impact of pharmaceuticals in the environment.
we also want to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union, and so the carbon border mechanism is a way for us to strengthen competitiveness, to generate revenue and to invite other countries which do not have the same environmental standards to also contribute to the objective of combating climate change.
and so the new own resources, in addition to not penalizing the citizens of the european union, must be in line with the objectives and policies of the union, the fight against climate change, or the strengthening of competitiveness.
do you think it is normal that large chinese companies, who export products with a staggering carbon footprint to europe on a massive scale and at ultra-aggressive prices, without being subject to the same standards, do not offset their environmental impact?
we're going to start in 2021 with a new tax, the plastic tax, based on the amount of plastic packaging waste that is not recycled.
we are talking about a carbon levy and also about the digital levy, which you are all too familiar with.
and it is also a revised proposal for the emissions trading system.
second, the european council has opened the door for modernisation of the own-resources system, which has not been reformed since 1988. this marks the first modernisation for more than half of our member states – 16 out of 27. the european council endorsed the simplification of the value-added-tax-based own resource, and agreed upon a new own resource based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste as of 2021, and these are only the first steps, as it has also agreed that additional new own resources should be introduced during the next multiannual financial framework period – from 2021-2027 – to finance the repayment of the next generation eu borrowing and enable early repayments.
it is a question of efficiency, because the introduction of certain taxes only makes sense at european level under the umbrella of the single market; it is a question of climate policy, because those who pollute the most must pay more and must also contribute to the financing of the just transition.
the effect of the border carbon tax will be that chinese or american multinationals will pass on their higher costs to their prices.
the own resources system, which has been operating unchanged since 1988, was initially the subject of a welcome reform which compensated for the member states for the environmental or fiscal dumping we are suffering.
but the fight is not over, because it must be admitted that germany is reluctant to introduce a carbon tax and ireland is reluctant to introduce a digital tax, unless qualified majority voting replaces the unanimity rule, which is engraved in the marble of the brussels treaties.
it is the tax on financial transactions, it is the tax on gafam and it is also a tax on our borders, precisely to protect the companies in our territories that make the effort to be better in social and environmental matters.
and if we put it off until later - i heard we've only opened the door, i heard there are only sketches of the paths to follow and i heard the date of 2027 - you know that tax justice, ecological transition later, that's ecology too late.
mr president, dear friends, for health, for the climate, for jobs: in all our countries, we need money to win these three battles.
whatever the merits of the report before us - i for one approve of a number of its proposals on the carbon tax, the tax on the gafam and also the tax on speculative financial operations - we will oppose this own resources project.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, behind this technical issue of collecting data on co2 emissions from maritime transport is in fact a major issue of the green deal for europe, but also of the european recovery plan.
for several years now, the international maritime organisation has been working on the ecological and energy transition of maritime transport, but at an insufficient pace in view of the challenges involved, in particular the expected increase in emissions of 50-250% by 2050, as has been mentioned.
the second major issue is the inclusion of shipping in the carbon market.
this is also important because the ocean fund we are proposing to set up will not only help decarbonise the sector, but also finance the restoration of marine and coastal ecosystems, which make a massive contribution to carbon sequestration.
beyond knowing, monitoring and monitoring, we will be able to take real action on the reduction of greenhouse gases in this sector, which is voluntary, with this ambitious target of a 40% reduction by 2030, as proposed by our colleague the rapporteur.
i am addressing all the parties concerned here: we are going to a confrontation between allied countries for the exploitation of non-renewable resources, which pollute and accelerate global warming.
using the coronavirus or co2 emissions to blow up the strasbourg headquarters is unacceptable.
we must also be aware of the accelerating ecological crisis and the multiplication of alarming warning signs: wildfires, the multiplication of heatwaves which are becoming more frequent, as this week, and a declining biodiversity.
today you are announcing with great fanfare a new target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030; but it is already well below the 65 percent scientifically required to meet the paris agreement.
how dare you further undermine that goal by a gimmick, by deducting emissions from carbon sinks, like forests?
to save humanity from global warming, we need to reduce our emissions, not rig the books.
to meet the urgency of the moment, everything must change: our only compass must be the ecological and social bifurcation.
it must be based on public planning and the massive creation of sustainable jobs in transport, freight, building insulation and the energy transition.
it must be launched now, as part of an ambitious recovery plan where every euro of public money is conditional on social and ecological counterparts for employment and the climate.
yes, we must collectively overcome this unprecedented crisis and seize this moment to make the union the spearhead of a profound transformation of our societies towards greater social and environmental well-being for all.
yes, there is a climate emergency.
and thirdly, the european commission should finally put forward new legislative proposals, particularly on climate protection, the so-called social pillar and immigration, which do not lead to new and even deeper divisions, to further ideological debates, but which enjoy broad support from the member states and the eu institutions.
for others, the rent pays, the financial transactions pay, the destruction of the environment pays.
you mentioned the ecological emergency.
of course we can and must produce better, but europe emits 8% of the carbon.
it is time to make the single market a lever to enable us to move towards this global ecological transition.
this is why the carbon inclusion mechanism is absolutely urgent.
we have spoken to you about social justice, equality, climate change, the fight against tax evasion, and you have replied to us about competitiveness, stability, the single market, fiscal sustainability.
a tax on financial transactions, taxing the richest or ecological dumping is the only way to avoid european citizens paying for the crisis.
your target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030 is actually only a 49% target, because you're changing the methodology to include carbon sinks like forests.
because as the commissioner rightly said: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies.
but in this climate of repression and terror, local communities no longer dare to seek justice for the violations they have suffered, nor to oppose the government.
i therefore ask all of you to contribute to ensuring that, in the context of this very complicated and complex situation next generation eu, mff, climate mainstreaming, gender mainstreaming, own resources decision , we also create a regulation that makes clear what we are about at the core of the european union, namely living under the rule of law.
this is not only a moral imperative, but also a prerequisite for respecting democracy and fundamental rights, the proper functioning of the internal market, the correct application of european law, mutual trust and the maintenance of a favourable investment environment.
the recovery fund must clearly be invested in european added value: in the energy transition, in modern health systems, in research.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
as i said at the beginning, we will continue working on the cooperation and verification mechanism because simply there is still unfinished business, there are still things to be done, and cvm was never just ticking the boxes, because, at the commission which followed very closely the progress of the reforms, we wanted to see tangible results and a sustainable, positive effect on the bulgarian judiciary and on the bulgarian system for fighting corruption and organised crime.
we cannot accept the cuts that the council has decided to make in health, employment, research or the climate.
i have said it before and i will say it again: in good conscience, i will not be able to vote on the next budget if we do not get an agreement on the additional 50 billion a year for climate, health and employment through the ftt.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the von der leyen commission was set up, the european union's environmental action has been expressed in beautiful declarations which unfortunately have been shattered by the reality of the acts.
so on the one hand we say that primary forests must be protected, but on the other hand this text promotes wood as a source of energy, when everyone knows that the energy efficiency of wood is extremely poor and that its combustion contributes to greenhouse gas emissions.
so, on the one hand we say and call on the european commission to take measures to safeguard biodiversity by promoting the diversity of forest species, but at the same time this text defends and encourages commercial forest management, which is based on commercial monoculture and clear-cutting which are extremely detrimental to sustainable forest management.
so, my dear colleagues, let us ask ourselves for a moment whether the human species is destined to go from one ecological wilderness to another?
our future depends to a large extent on our ability to stop the ongoing deforestation and degradation, the catastrophic consequences of which are ecological.
we are accelerating the loss of forests throughout europe, instead of correcting our renewable energy directive to prevent it from contributing to deforestation in areas which we should be protecting.
i call on you to vote for amendment 2.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the forest is our most valuable asset in achieving our climate objectives.
i would also like to stress the need to extend the benefits of european environmental policies to third countries.
of course, some people put more emphasis on the environmental function, while others emphasize the economic aspect as being very important.
it cannot be abandoned and this forestry must be managed in a sustainable way.
the forestry strategy must be consistent with both the overall green communication and biodiversity strategies, and to some extent with the field-to-table strategy.
then to mr bompard, i want to just make one factual correction – there were plenty of reasons to do that in many speeches, but there’s one that i would specifically like to make – and that’s when he said that this report is promoting wood as a source of energy.
the way i understand the word ‘promote’ in the english language, this report is not promoting the use of wood as a source of energy.
the eu must support a sustainable forest strategy, which is essential to ensure the economic viability and competitiveness of the forestry and forestry sector.
the new strategy is also important for providing solutions for climate as well as biodiversity, bioenergy and the promotion of the bio- and green economy.
the resolution also recommends the wider use of wood as a sustainable building material, calls for a stronger fight against illegal logging and calls for the promotion of sustainable forestry worldwide.
the environmental dimension is very clear to everyone, because forests are a very important global asset as a carbon sink.
forest management is the management of a renewable resource, so the importance of forest restoration must be considered in addition to the forest area.
the promotion of sustainable forest management in the eu through the implementation of the eu forest strategy and rural development measures under the common agricultural policy has had a positive impact on forests and their condition and livelihoods in rural areas, on the biodiversity of eu forests and has increased the benefits for the forestry sector.
however, a balanced approach to sustainable forest management is still needed to ensure that the ecological condition of forests, the health and resilience of ecosystems are improved and that forests are better able to adapt to a changing climate.
the eu forest strategy should promote and support the sharing of best practices related to the implementation of sustainable forest management, the training of forest workers and managers, the performance of the forestry sector and better cooperation between member states in cross-border actions and information sharing to ensure the growth of healthy european forests.
there is a need to increase awareness of the importance of sustainable forest management and to provide opportunities for the development, implementation and coordination of awareness-raising campaigns on the multi-functionality of forests and the multiple benefits of sustainable forest management from an economic, social and environmental perspective.
the european climate law is indeed the cornerstone of the european green deal, as it enshrines into legislation the union’s objective to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 at the latest.
the climate neutrality objective brings with it a transition of historic dimension, which europe will undergo in the coming decades.
we are moving away from our history as the coal and steel union and heading towards climate neutrality.
the report sets a binding target for the union and the member states to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
thereafter, emissions shall be negative.
everyone must contribute to reach the climate neutrality objective.
the report proposes a strengthened 2030 climate target of 60% in order to be in line with science and give europe the best possible chance of reaching its climate neutrality objective and respecting the paris agreement.
we need to have a higher target for 2030. the commission has proposed a net target of at least 55% for 2030, meaning approximately between 51% and 53% in real emission reductions, depending on how much greenhouse gas our natural sinks will be able to remove from the atmosphere.
we need a stronger target if we are serious about respecting the paris agreement and our own responsibility to reach climate neutrality.
this is also why the report includes a new eu climate target for 2040. this is a crucial element to ensure that europe is on track to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. to take responsible climate action, we also need to know exactly how much europe can emit without undermining the union’s commitment under the paris agreement.
therefore, the report also calls for the introduction of a greenhouse gas budget setting out the total remaining quantity of greenhouse gas emissions as co2 equivalent that could be emitted up to 2050 without putting at risk the 1.5 degree temperature goal.
we will only succeed in our climate efforts if everyone is with us, if no one is left behind.
i would like to underline the importance of the reference to the 2015 international labour organization’s guidelines for a just transition towards environmentally sustainable economies and societies.
there are also strong provisions on science, not to mention the set-up of an independent climate council at european level: the european climate change council (eccc), which, with the creation of climate advisory bodies at member state level, will assess whether we are on track to achieve the climate neutrality objective and identify opportunities to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase the carbon sequestration potential.
furthermore, the provisions for climate adaptation have been strengthened, with increased consideration of vulnerable groups.
(applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
we, the members of the european parliament, should not focus on populist bidding for the largest reduction in greenhouse gases in the shortest possible time, but should look for realistic scenarios that are acceptable to all member states and their societies.
the objective of climate neutrality, agreed by the european council last december, is to apply at union level.
it is assumed that the time horizon for reaching net zero emissions in individual countries will be different.
the draft regulation also envisages the eu as a whole achieving climate neutrality by 2050. that is a realistic position and one which should be supported by parliament.
i’m really happy to discuss with you today what is i think a landmark of the european green deal, the climate law to turn europe’s political climate ambitions into binding legislation.
moving towards a climate-neutral future is the right thing to do for our children and future generations especially now, and everything we’re doing is science—based, so actually those who deny the science are being ideological, not the ones who embrace science!
the climate law will set the direction by making our 2050 climate neutrality goal binding.
this is a union—wide commitment to climate neutrality with a just transition for all.
for 2030 we need to increase our ambition if we want a realistic pathway to climate neutrality.
our proposal to increase the 2030 target to at least 55% emissions reductions compared to 1990 was not just conjured from thin air.
we propose to reduce our emissions over the next decade by as much as we have achieved over the past quarter century.
we will soon propose a renovation wave to lower energy bills and fight energy poverty.
we will continue developing our just transition mechanism to deliver a new future to regions where the path towards climate neutrality is particularly steep.
we will stand with you to make the journey to climate neutrality with us.
the point of climate neutrality in 2050 is that by that year we must balance co2 emissions with removals – taking out what we put in, if you prefer a cruder expression.
rather than waiting for 2050 we want to recognise the role of natural carbon sinks now.
including the full sink in our climate target in line with our international obligations will drive us to take better care of our forests and sinks so that they can play this vital role and also give an opportunity to rural communities.
tomorrow you will vote on turning our climate ambitions into binding law.
we will push for an ambitious seven—year budget to finance our climate ambitions, but i want to thank parliament, and ms guteland in particular, already for the work on this historic piece of legislation, the climate law.
ambitious climate action is what we need in europe today and in the world.
let’s set our pathway towards climate neutrality as quickly as possible and start walking along this path together as quickly as possible.
– madam president, for months, and even years, youngsters have taken to the streets and called for action on climate change.
today we have the chance to vote for something historic: the european climate law.
this law will set the ambition for the eu’s climate actions in the coming decades.
transport and tourism are responsible for nearly a third of europeans’ greenhouse gas emissions.
transport, and in particular maritime and aviation, is the only sector where emissions are still higher than in 1990, with more than a 25% increase.
scientists are adamant that these events will increase unless we take strong action to combat climate change.
we must vote for a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 65% by 2030. i would like those who refuse to listen to the scientists to come and explain to the inhabitants and the people of my region that the lives of their loved ones do not matter, that the destruction of their homes does not matter, that you would rather sacrifice their lives than a few points of growth.
climate law must be compatible with the paris agreement's goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees, it's a matter of survival.
the climate law is the cornerstone of the european green deal.
as rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i would like to emphasise the role that territories have to play in the fight against climate change.
we have a duty to do everything we can to prevent the disastrous effects of climate change.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president timmermans, thanks to this regulation, europe will be the first continent to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
the climate law is the first law in the world and it is the translation of our political commitment, which puts us irreversibly on the road to a more sustainable future.
the climate law is also a message to our international partners: this is the decisive year for raising the level of global ambition in pursuing the objectives of the paris agreement and for finally shaking the consciences of those countries, first of all the united states and china, which have so far evaded their responsibilities.
now more than ever, we cannot afford to fail, and the pandemic has made it crystal clear that the relationship between the environment and health is inextricable.
madam president, 2020 has stopped, but the climate crisis has not, and the european parliament has not.
this climate law sets out a clear and ambitious roadmap, a stable and predictable legal framework for economic operators, certainty, and also the recognition of the right of our citizens to a healthy and habitable planet.
this climate act, in a deep economic crisis marked by covid, should help us to make all economic growth and job recovery climate-driven, and to make european recovery funds invest in clean technologies, innovation and new technologies.
today, colleagues, this climate act bridges the gap between scientific warnings and political action.
these are not my words, but those of maurice feschet, a simple farmer from the drôme region, who had the courage to file a complaint in 2018 against the eu's climate inaction.
i want to make his voice heard here because he is, for me, the symbol of all those whose lives are so strongly affected by climate change, those whose lives are threatened by the natural disasters generated by our development model, those who ultimately matter so little.
because what are we talking about when we talk about climate law?
the next ten years are crucial: storms, drought, the threat of glaciers, entire territories plunged into energy poverty call for action to meet the dangers.
to save the climate, we must aim for at least 65% by 2030. everybody knows that!
the 60% target for reducing emissions by 2030 is not based on scientific evidence.
as for the european carbon budget, how will it be calculated and who will determine it?
your eagerness to make europe the first carbon neutral continent is ideological.
the means must be provided for its ambitions: the use of nuclear energy, confidence in technological innovation, the fight against unfair foreign competition and a gradual energy transition taking into account national realities.
climate neutrality must be a collective effort at the level of states, guided by legitimate environmental concerns but also by the interests of our peoples.
madam president, a year ago our parliament declared a climate and environmental emergency.
today we can live up to this, we must set in the climate act a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 by at least 65%.
we must include a reduction which does not include the absorption reductions from natural carbon sinks.
madam president, this climate bill teaches us two lessons.
the first is the political will to make the eu the first continent in the world to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. the second is that in order to achieve this, two visions clash.
the preservation of our jobs, the adaptation measures that our companies and industries will have to take, the risk of relocation and therefore of carbon leakage, all this comes second.
the ecological transition involves all of us, it must be credible to be feasible, it is the only condition for its success.
madam president, while the ambition of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 on european territory is a laudable objective, the european union is once again faced with a wall of contradictions.
how can we simultaneously advocate the tightening of carbon taxes in europe on both sides, the great move of the world through the multiplication of free trade agreements.
you want to ideologically reduce the share of nuclear energy in the energy mix in favour of other renewable energies which are more expensive and less efficient: this is a political and ecological mistake.
nuclear energy is the cheapest, most decarbonised energy available today, and is essential for the massive development of hydrogen energy sources, which the european union is rightly promoting.
the ecological transition must not be punitive or sacrificial, but rather a means of opening up new markets for our industry and, rightly, of improving the quality of life of europeans by re-rooting them in their environment.
we need binding, binding rules with real and effective penalties for companies that do not comply with their tax, labour or environmental obligations.
it is also necessary that every saver directly contributes to building the more sustainable and resilient european economy of tomorrow.
we ask for legislation guided by strong ethical principles with the protection of citizens and the environment as a priority.
secondly, the amendments tabled in plenary risk unreasonably increasing their environmental impact.
the increase in environmental indicators would lead to the widespread use of a private certification system, the cost of which would be borne heavily by farmers.
to avoid this drift, i would like to see the overall environmental budget capped at 30% and incentives rather than constraints given priority.
future generations around the world are looking to us in the hope that the cap, as a potential cornerstone of the european green deal needed to preserve their future, will meet the challenges of the climate emergency, the fight against the collapse of biodiversity and the achievement of global food sovereignty.
the farmers of the european union are looking to us in the hope that the cap will finally offer them decent living conditions, decent incomes that could pay for ecosystem services that serve the common interest.
the time for the opposition between economic issues and environmental obligations, the old quibble of liberals and conservatives, is outdated, dated, outdated!
i am counting on this house and, during the trilogue, on the commission and the council to show as much ambition on the environment as on aid to young people or on the payment of aid per active farmer.
i would like to talk about the 4 million farms that have disappeared in europe in the last 20 years, the farmers who commit suicide, one every two days in my country, france, the extinction of biodiversity, of which intensive farming is now the main cause, climate change and the suffering inflicted on animals in industrial mega-farms.
their opaque last-minute agreements and their entry into force are about to sign the death warrant of hundreds of thousands of farmers, biodiversity and the climate.
our agricultural model must now face the ecological challenge of the green transition, but its implementation needs to be fine-tuned between the new green structure of the cap and the environmental measures included in the f2f strategy.
i would like to answer precisely this specific question and inform you that in the council conclusions of 12 october we already stressed the importance of this issue and we urged belarus to comply with the standards and environmental safety of the european union and to follow the european union recommendations in this field without delay.
we are all concerned about the deteriorating security environment and the continued pressure on the nuclear non-proliferation architecture, as illustrated by the demise of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty.
the european union strongly supports all three pillars of the treaty – non-proliferation, nuclear disarmament and peaceful use of nuclear energy – and we will continue to promote a comprehensive, balanced and full implementation of the 2010 review conference action plan.
in this environment, we should not blame israel for having nuclear weapons.
madam president, four days ago, samuel paty, a history teacher, was beheaded in france in broad daylight by an islamist terrorist, who was fortunately quickly brought under control by the police, whose dedicated work i commend despite a climate of very high violence against police officers.
because we don't want to see our companies die, if they were faced with unfair competition in health, social or environmental matters.
but who can say that allowing the pandemic to take hold, allowing the social divide to deepen, allowing the climate crisis to fester, allowing natural resources to be depleted, allowing biodiversity to collapse, will not impact our public finances?
i agree with your colleagues from the epp on only one point: reducing inequalities or our ecological footprint is in tension with the blind pursuit of growth at any cost.
our economic and social policies must contribute to the objectives of sustainable development, the implementation of the green deal and the realisation of the european pillar of social rights.
we are going to live with the threat of ecological collapse that we are already seeing coming and perhaps this pandemic was one of the first manifestations of that.
should we be able to have a more sustainable, more competitive, more resilient?
i am in favour of a strong green and social component in the recovery plan, with a significant share being devoted to environmental objectives and the implementation of the principles of the european pillar of social rights.
let me congratulate you, ms burkhardt, and the entire committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on your important report, which calls for an eu legal framework to halt and reverse eu—driven global deforestation.
our eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 stresses the importance of increasing the quantity, quality and resilience of our own forests.
deforestation is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, causing climate change.
it is also true that we should not forget that high carbon stock and biodiversity rich ecosystems, other than forest, marine and coastal ecosystems, wetlands, peatlands or savannas are equally threatened.
this objective is enshrined in the european green deal, the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 and farm—to—fork strategy.
let me conclude by saying that the report of the european parliament constitutes an important contribution and goes beyond the legislative work of the commission, meaning it should also translate in the work of other sectors, including working in partnership with producing countries to reduce pressures on forest and help them implement sustainable forest—based value chains – ones adopted by this house.
if deforestation were a nation, it would be the third biggest emitter of greenhouse gases after china and the us.
let us not waste this unique opportunity.
we have decided to stop using palm oil as a renewable energy source.
i am the rapporteur on the committee on development on corporate environmental responsibility.
this has dramatic consequences for our climate and our ecosystems.
as a consumer, i want to know that my consumption doesn’t have negative effects on the environment or on people who live in other countries.
so can we imagine preserving biodiversity without preserving the world's forests?
can we hope to meet our climate commitments without preserving the world's forests?
again, the answer is no, because forests cover 31% of the earth's surface and are the second largest carbon sink after the oceans.
to continue to destroy them is to condemn ourselves to losing the climate battle.
we must recognise the universal right to a healthy environment for all, guarantee access to justice, protect environmental defenders.
the main sources of energy are three commodities: soybeans, beef and palm oil.
there is a direct link between deforestation and climate change, as 12 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions are the result of deforestation.
again, your europeanist vision is harmful both to producers and to the environment, so you are inevitably a link in the chain of deforestation.
the expert group set up by the european commission in january 2019 to study this phenomenon never met in 2020.
mr president, the european commission has made the energy transition a major focus of its policy, notably by setting the objective of carbon neutrality by 2050. if the goal is really to decarbonize energy then where has nuclear power gone in your report?
it is nowhere recognised as a key technology to promote, even though it is the cheapest and most decarbonised energy source available today, making france the second cleanest energy country in the world, according to a report by yale university.
it is therefore time for the european commission to return to reason and science, to stop succumbing to the pressure of the green ayatollahs and their anti-nuclear hysteria, and to put an end to our industrial and energy independence.
the outdated provisions of the energy charter treaty need to be modernised in line with the latest objectives of the european commission to limit the impact of climate change.
in order to effectively contribute to the climate objectives set out in the paris agreement on sustainable development goals and the ambitions of the european union, the ect should encourage investment in sustainable low-carbon energy and, equally, support measures to promote a just transition.
however, in light of the urgent need for climate action, what ect really needs is a fundamental shift.
today's debate, i believe, may have a positive impact not only on thinking about the changes necessary to achieve climate goals but also on other provisions of the ect that also have a significant negative impact on the international legal order.
according to the ect secretariat, a total of 134 lawsuits have been filed by energy companies against the state, and almost half of the proceedings are still ongoing.
i would also like to say a word about the recent murder of one of this year's finalists, mr arnold joaquín morazán erazo, leader of the environmental group guapinol, the group that is opposing an iron oxide mine in honduras.
we now continue our debate on the commission's statement on the adaptation of the energy charter treaty to the european green deal (2020/2827 (rsp)) after president sassoli's statement on the sakharov prize winners.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has made the environment its flagship project through the green deal for europe.
this parliament declared a climate emergency last year.
we voted a few weeks ago on the climate bill.
but all this is useless if the energy charter continues because you know as well as i do that whenever a state wants to introduce ambitious environmental legislation, it will be attacked or threatened with being attacked in private arbitration courts, with the consequences that we know, either the law is scrapped, or it is lightened, or the states have to pay out millions or even billions of euros, public money, the money of the citizens, money that we need to implement the ecological transition.
this archaic, climate-killing treaty acts as a real life insurance for the fossil fuel industry, life insurance against our lives.
and if this treaty is not renegotiable, which is our real fear, we would like to know whether the commission is determined to organise a concerted exit from this treaty, so that we can put in place the ecological transition.
one consequence is that the current energy charter treaty is not in line with our objectives to combat climate change.
and these cases are likely to increase with our goal of climate neutrality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy charter treaty was signed in 1994. it protects investments in fossil fuels, by allowing multinationals to attack states in arbitration tribunals.
vattenfall, for example, is suing germany for tightening up its environmental regulations.
it is the canadian company vermilion that is threatening france with legal action if it commits to ending fossil fuel extraction by 2040. the treaty now protects 30 gigatons of cumulative emissions, the equivalent of the eu's carbon budget by 2050 to meet the paris agreement trajectory.
our parliament has set the target of carbon neutrality by 2050. will we be dragged into court?
so, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to tear up the energy charter treaty.
we're finally going to have a carbon adjustment mechanism at the border, we're finally going to have a tax on the digital giants, we're finally going to have a tax on financial transactions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ecological crisis does not stop with the health crisis.
if we want to save the climate and achieve carbon neutrality, as we have promised, not a single public euro should be allocated to fossil fuels.
so once again, we have fought the battle to clearly exclude fossil fuels from this recovery facility and we have only gotten gas not listed as a transition energy.
it's time to go further and make the radical decisions that are needed, or the climate crisis will spawn words far worse than the ones we face today.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
these measures will help to maintain and create jobs, to ensure future growth and to combat climate change.
if we make a summary, it becomes obvious where we should invest: in the green economy, fighting against adverse effects of climate change, restore biodiversity, health, education, and in digital, democratic and social rights.
we have also secured funding for the green deal and for a just ecological transition; we have defended the people and put the socialist stamp on this long-term budget, which is now greener, fairer and more social.
the security environment surrounding europe is certainly not one that today allows sober-minded decision-makers to further reduce already limited amounts.
without a green eu budget, there is no green deal for a sustainable europe!
the green group has negotiated award criteria for climate protection and biodiversity in the multiannual financial framework.
with a plastic tax next year, a digital tax and carbon tax mechanisms in 2023, and a financial transaction tax and common corporate taxes in 2026, the roadmap is less ambitious than we greens have been calling for, but it finally puts a longstanding green demand on track.
the transition to a climate-resilient and digital economy would require significantly higher research investments.
this will avoid jeopardising the continuation of eu programmes and allow recovery funding to be directed towards sustainable growth.
i think that there are some priorities that they want to highlight: to re-energise cooperation for multilateral fora, in particular the united nations; we are continuing to work towards promoting respect for human rights; to address the difficulties of the world trade organization, especially the dispute settlement mechanism; to cooperate in fighting covid-19, including strengthening the workings of the world health organization and the capacity of the global health systems, starting with preparedness and response to emergencies; to accelerate ambitious global climate action and to invest in harnessing that in a logical transformation; to look at china and iran and our neighbourhood, and we will try to reach a common approach with the us.
that goes for the climate crisis, for weapons exports, for conflict parties or for shady energy projects with even more shady partners such as nord stream.
we must tackle the causes of the emergence of such anti-democratic politicians, that is, overcome the social divisions in our societies and solve the questions of the future, such as digitisation and climate protection, in a socially just way.
the repair of us society requires strong, principled leadership that boldly tackles both inequality and climate change.
i expect that the fight against climate change and rising inequality, the biggest systemic crises of this generation, will return to the center of the u.s. and global agenda.
– i welcome the victory of mr joe biden in the us presidential election and i particularly salute his commitment to re-join the paris climate agreement, in line with the eu’s green deal ambition.
i find this moment a good opportunity to reenergise eu’s transatlantic partnership with our long-time allies and friends and to jointly address increasing and pressing global challenges, such as: climate change, digital transformation, security, defence and the rules-based multilateral system.
it is also very important for estonia, both from the point of view of security and the economic environment.
from removing trade barriers to addressing environmental challenges to promoting democracy at home and around the world.
after years of political turmoil, fake news and polarization, she offers the american people a new perspective on a unifying presidency that addresses the great economic, social, societal and climate challenges.
we are stronger together: the same is true for the global fight against climate change and the transition to a carbon-neutral economy.
the eu has taken the lead in achieving the objectives of the paris agreement on climate change with the green deal.
in this area too, we hope to find in the new president a partner for ambitious climate policy.
as our societies are weakened by the health crisis, the climate catastrophe and the explosion of poverty, this series of abject attacks has a clear political objective: to weaken us by dividing us.
the murder of professor samuel paty, a victim of islamist barbarism, has highlighted the climate of intolerance and hatred that prevails today in some french schools, where freedom of opinion and expression is the target of unprecedented attacks by an islamist movement whose model remains that of the sharia, which is incompatible with democracy and the very principles of the republican school, such as secularism and gender equality.
madam president, €600 billion, the report we are voting on this week on how to avoid climate and social chaos says that €600 billion more investment is needed every year.
mr commissioner responsible for the budget, mr johannes, madam secretary of state, mrs bettina, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that in the coming weeks it will still be possible to complete this budget - i say complete it, not renegotiate it, complete it to be up to the task, to give more resources to health, the climate and employment.
to cope with the ecological crisis, some believe that, with the economic crisis, the co2 evolution has calmed down.
and yes, co2 is directly linked to the slowdown in economic activity, but overall, this is going to be one of the worst years, so we can't wait to take action on climate.
we are all aware that the combination of the social crisis, the climate crisis and the health crisis can lead us to collapse.
we cannot, in the name of unanimity, block health or climate measures.
similarly, if we want to find ways to have more money for hospitals, for the climate, for research, for jobs, it is still possible to find new resources.
mrs merkel, you absolutely want a climate agreement, an ambitious agreement on 10 and 11 december, and you are absolutely right.
you've been interested in climate for 25 years - you were the one who hosted the first climate summit in berlin 25 years ago.
but the only way to have a real ambitious agreement on 10 and 11 december is to unblock funding, otherwise many countries will block the climate agreement, and this is dramatic.
climate scientists tell us that 2020 is much worse than they thought.
the climate crisis is collapsing and the social crisis may lead to a democratic crisis.
friends, i think we have done a great job negotiating the current budget and it is urgent to complete it, to have new resources for the climate, health, employment.
mrs merkel, you are a great european, it is time to take a limited but decisive initiative: europe was born with coal and steel, it can be reborn with a climate, health and employment project financed by a tax on speculation.
they will be created, we will have a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders tomorrow, a tax on digital giants, a tax on financial transactions.
the message i want to send is that there is an urgent need to do more than wait for the ecological transition.
in this budget there are some very positive steps in this respect, with the 30% climate, 10% biodiversity, and also the idea, of course, of not using the remaining percentages of the budget to destroy what is being implemented with the climate and biodiversity criteria.
i would also like to say that the 60% figure in this report is consistent with the 60% target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, and that it should be 65%, which is the spirit of the amendment i have tabled.
also increase the budget of the parliament's environment directorate-general to push and work on the ecological transition.
today, the ecological turn that some are trying to make to the european union budget must be directed towards major policies for relocating and protecting sectors such as agriculture, fisheries and handicrafts.
this is why we, the european parliament, must defend the fisheries sector and in particular the emff allocations in order to give it a real fighting force for this particularly difficult year of 2021.
madam president, last night the european parliament gave its consent to the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the seychelles.
in the negotiations with the council, we will defend our major thematic priorities: an ambitious plan against cancer, the prevention of chronic diseases, better consideration of rare diseases, the strengthening of the europe of medicine, but also environmental health, occupational health and sexual and reproductive health.
paul tang and myself, as co-rapporteurs, are presenting to you today parliament’s report on the sustainable europe investment plan.
we started our work on this report immediately after the commission presented the green deal and the sustainable europe investment plan – that was at the beginning of this year.
the one thing which i want to say very clearly for parliament now is that we are sticking to the objectives of the green deal: combating climate change; polluting less; improving our energy efficiency.
the commission rightly proposed 37% climate mainstreaming under the recovery and resilience facility.
the question is, do we count the resources from the recovery resilience facility under the sustainable europe investment plan or not?
with regard to the just transition fund, i would like to say that it is crucial that the just transition fund is sufficiently financed and that the climate transition takes into consideration the different levels of development and dependence on fossil fuels in different eu member states.
obviously member states are deciding by themselves their own energy mixes.
we are committed and member states are committed – they should be committed – to transitioning from the least clean sources of energy, but we need to see how the transition can take place from country to country.
we, in our report, are also saying that the projects with the highest potential to reach our climate objectives should be financed as a priority and we also say that a level playing field should be guaranteed for eu companies.
the european parliament pledged to commit europe to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 60% and set in this way an example for the rest of the world.
with the eu taxonomy, we obliged the financial sector to back any claims of sustainability.
that’s why we clearly state eu spending on sustainability must be taxonomy compliant.
how can we spend money on fighting climate change if we subsidise fossil fuels at the same time?
environmental and social progress need to go hand—in—hand.
as supervisor, the ecb needs to force banks to address climate—related risks that are still on the balance sheets of banks.
indeed, the energy tax directive is out of date.
with this report, the european parliament shows how it bridges the gap between ambition and reality, bringing a sustainable society closer and closer.
nearly ten months ago, the commission adopted the sustainable europe investment plan, which is an investment plan for the european green deal.
the eu fight against climate change and environmental degradation now takes place amid an unprecedented health and economic crisis of covid—19.
but as your report also highlights, the climate change crisis has not disappeared.
today, i assure you that the sustainable europe investment plan is as relevant as it was in january.
our commitment to become the first climate—neutral continent by 2050 remains firm, and we have proposed more ambitious emissions cuts by 2030. we will need massive investment to reach those goals.
through the sustainable europe investment plan, the eu set out how to generate at least one trillion euros of sustainable investments over the next decade.
investor appetite for sustainable opportunities is on the rise.
international cooperation beyond eu borders is also needed to scale up sustainable finance.
the eu’s key role in the international platform for sustainable finance is at the heart of this global response.
your efforts will be an important reference point as we push ahead with our plan to finance the green deal in a sustainable and fair manner.
so in that regard, i’m very glad to see that the report prepared by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and the committee on budgets (budg) mentioned the important role of smes in the transport and also the tourism sector, and the call to revise the eib transport lending policy in order to open financial opportunities for sustainable and digital innovations.
europe is the world leader in agriculture for quality, food safety, innovation and high environmental standards and italy, i like to recall, is first in europe for the number of products of certified quality.
the objectives of the from farm to fork and biodiversity strategies require new eu own resources.
to achieve a comprehensive and successful ecological transformation and modernisation of the economy and society, and to succeed in the commission's priority of a green new deal, we need to promote synergies between the green new deal and eu programmes in the fields of education, volunteering and culture.
erasmus+, the european solidarity corps and creative europe are important tools in the fight against climate change.
they are essential for the transition to a green economy and a sustainable society, as they promote the necessary skills, such as environmental and climate change awareness, especially among young people, which need to be disseminated for a new socio-economic environment.
this environment requires creative, inclusive and technologically innovative solutions to address environmental challenges.
this is why there needs to be greater cooperation in the eu between education, environment and climate change.
we as the european union have set ourselves an ambitious climate target, and this target will only be achievable if we also trigger investment accordingly.
madam president, dear friends, two years ago, greta thunberg was starting a school strike, a climate strike.
greta asked a simple question: what is the point of going to school if our leaders are not interested in our future, if they are not interested in the climate emergency?
and the number of climate disasters has more than doubled in 30 years.
on 29 october, the un released an alarming report on biodiversity, which stated that unless we radically transform our lifestyles, pandemics like covid-19 will multiply and cause more deaths.
the report we are about to vote on, thanks to paul and siegfried, recalls that 600 billion investment is needed every year to insulate buildings, to make public transport, to develop renewable energies... 600 billion public and private.
that's very good, and we want to raise the climate from 20 to 30 percent of the general budget.
so i think there's something obscene when heads of state tell us that there's no money for climate, no money for health, no money for jobs, when the financial markets have never been this high.
in a month, there's the climate summit.
mrs merkel wants an ambitious agreement at the climate council on 10 and 11 december, but many countries will block this agreement if there is no ambitious funding.
mrs merkel, it is urgent for the climate and for health to relaunch the enhanced cooperation on the tax on speculation.
madam president, commissioner dombrovskis, the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the cornerstone of the green deal for europe, because it will finance the energy transition.
with this green deal, we have set ambitious climate targets to become the first neutral continent by 2050. the question now is how to do it.
we therefore call for a legally binding spending target of 30% for climate as soon as possible and 10% for biodiversity by 2026 in the eu budget.
the report also stresses the need to create new own resources, to enable us to achieve a higher level of climate finance.
so the carbon border adjustment mechanism will also allow us to fight against our carbon leakage, and to encourage our partners to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions.
we are therefore calling for a 37% climate target to be applied to next generation eu spending.
by combining all our strengths, we could reach €600 billion of climate investment per year and thus achieve our ambitions for a neutral, job-creating europe in line with the paris agreement.
this report is the result of a collaborative effort with several committees, all of which have a key role to play: the environment, of course, but also agriculture, transport, culture and education.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, when it comes to dealing with the social emergency and financing the ecological bifurcation, we are always told the same story: it is too expensive, our states cannot afford it.
are you going to tell me that the companies that are profiting from the crisis, and are also responsible for the environmental disaster, do not have the means?
you will no longer be able to tell us that we cannot afford to invest in renewable energy, clean transport, renovation of buildings.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an obligation, a duty, to combat climate change, to protect and defend biodiversity, and at the same time to promote sustainable growth, to defend territorial, economic and social cohesion and inclusion.
where's the energy union?
my country produces wind energy which is not fully used because it cannot then enter the european market - there are no interconnections.
we need investment, but we also need to remove these barriers, without which we will remain dependent, for example, on russian supplies, when we could be energy independent.
madam president, we started this legislature a little over a year ago with very remarkable climate ambition.
madam president, with the green deal for europe, the european union has set itself a new growth strategy with the ambition of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 and we must now give ourselves the means to achieve this goal.
the fight against climate change will only be possible if we create new budgetary capacities, i.e.
new own resources, develop a favourable framework for mobilising sustainable private and public investment, i.e.
our european taxonomy, and ensure that the climate imperative is transversal to the various european policies, i.e.
it is a concrete tool that lays the foundation for a common classification that allows investors to clearly know which activities are considered environmentally sustainable.
the strength of the report on the financing of the green deal for europe which is being proposed today is precisely that it will finally enable europe to achieve its environmental ambitions.
it is now up to the states to pursue theirs and give us the means to meet environmental ambitions.
(the order of business is as follows)
the agenda includes the report by mr david cormand, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on 'towards a more sustainable single market for businesses and consumers' (2020/2021 ((ini)) (a9-0209/2020)).
mr president, mr david, hello to all, we are debating an important own-initiative report today, since it concerns the question of the sustainable market in the european union.
and so as such, we have the power and the ability to prescribe a set of rules that not only preserve the planet, but also preserve sustainable jobs in our territories and protect consumers.
but how can we think of an ecological transition if we do not review the rules of the market?
and then we want clear and harmonised information on the sustainability of products, which is absolutely fundamental.
a mandatory display so that everyone can know the environmental quality of a product, because it has a known cost, that is the cost of purchase, but it also has a hidden cost, that is what this product really costs at the environmental level.
finally, we want to promote sustainable products in public procurement, which in europe represents 16% of gdp.
we also want to make data on product sustainability public and transparent.
we want to see a digital passport of products on the market so that everyone can know the environmental quality of these products, and a sustainable digital index, because digital, which is often considered intangible, has very real consequences.
once again, our ambition is to protect european jobs, to protect the planet, with a more sustainable market, and above all to protect consumers so that they can be enlightened and not be considered as dairy cows in the economic model, as they are today all too often.
however, while we are voting on a report supported by the greens to combat planned obsolescence and develop an ecosystem of repair and second-hand, these same greens have thrown away, thrown away, a beautiful nuclear power station.
this absurd situation is not going to end, since the multiannual energy law provides for the closure of 14 other nuclear reactors, while they are in working order and would have been more useful due to the increase in renewable energies, because the more renewable there is, the more we need regular electricity production that does not depend on weather conditions.
against food waste, against disposable products and for a circular economy with the repairability and recyclability of products within our territories.
we also support sustainability and repairability labelling, which takes account of multiple criteria throughout the life cycle of products.
the greens' enthusiasm for repairability and sustainability must first be demonstrated here, i repeat, by defending the european parliament's seat in strasbourg and by ceasing to look for fallacious arguments to prevent us from coming here to alsace.
a sustainable single market is firstly common sense by allowing a mandatory label on products indicating, from their design to their end of life, their environmental and social impact.
and all suffer from the race for social and environmental minimum standards that a market without limits wants to impose on us.
i thought i understood from some of the speeches that there would be a kind of opposition between the ecological question and the social question.
it's a social issue and it's an ecological issue.
rules which allow for this consideration of the ecological issue, but also rules which protect consumers and, in this respect, i would stress that, yes, there are vulnerable consumers, and the committee on which i sit is the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
the whole point is to make the ecological question of safeguarding life on earth and the social question work hand in hand, all within an economic framework to which we must give meaning, because today this senseless economic model is annihilating, including the european economy, including european smes.
it is time to protect europeans more than the banks, it is also time to start dealing with the real issues, that is, the issue of climate change and to see how we adapt the micro and macro prudential rules to an event, that of climate change, which will be much worse than the covid crisis.
we already knew that amazon was destroying the environment, attacking social rights and evading taxes.
the amazon example shows that there is an urgent need to extend citizens' shields beyond the consumer sphere to establish a genuine duty of vigilance for businesses and to protect fundamental rights, workers' rights and the environment.
i wanted to tell you about my little cousin clotilde, who's 16. she's been at every climate rally for a year and every family dinner, and you can't stop her when she starts trying to convince the whole family of the ecological emergency.
they are committed to the climate, to equality between women and men, but they do not have the right to participate in democracy, they do not have the right to elect the representatives who will decide how life should be organized in the society in which they live.
but above all, we need to get the sdgs, the un sustainable development goals, into the wto so that trade policy can also serve the implementation of sustainability strategies on a global scale.
i hope that we can work very closely with the united states, with the biden administration and with mr kerry as climate commissioner.
so i think it is right - and this is also in the proposal - to introduce a binding european supply chain law that provides for a duty of care for companies operating in the european single market - risk-based, so that we don't see this cut and go, but a clear strategy to improve situations in the supply chain, the situation of workers' rights, environmental standards.
european trade policy is operating in an increasingly difficult environment, marked by growing tensions among major global economies, the rise of unilateralism and economic nationalism, the weaponisation of trade policy for other objectives and a weakening of the rules-based multilateral order.
finally, the covid-19 crisis is having a devastating impact on our economies and societies, and all eu policies must contribute to sustainable recovery, including trade.
these included: the need to create more sustainable and resilient value chains; the need to sustain rules-based trade and reform of the rules-based multilateral order; the need for trade policy to contribute to the digital and green transitions, through better integration of our internal and external policies; the need to strengthen the eu’s regulatory impact and to maximise the contribution to the economic recovery, especially for smes; and also, the need to manage and develop our key global trade relationships; and the need to further strengthen the implementation and enforcement aspect of our trade agreements, including on sustainable development commitments.
we need to move forward on the enforceability of labour rights and environmental standards, and that includes sanctions: no enforceability without clear sanctions.
over the last five years we have seen the stable and predictable environment necessary for international trade to flourish continuously undermined.
we must now initiate the ecological and social transformation.
all un states committed to achieving the 17 sustainable development goals by 2030. this includes overcoming hunger and poverty and protecting the climate.
the fight against unfair competition, whether social, fiscal or environmental, must be our priority.
we are aware of the criticisms about the binding nature of the chapter on sustainable development, our agreements certainly concern a reference to the paris agreements, but we must rethink, along the lines of the franco-dutch initiative, the respect by our partners of our commitments.
will europe finally be able to make a coherent link between its agricultural and environmental agenda and the demands it places on its partners in the rest of the world?
decisions are also needed at this summit to ensure that the eu takes serious climate action.
at the last summit, any decision on the 2030 climate targets was postponed.
the european parliament has delivered an ambitious target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by the year 2030, and the governments must now follow suit to allow for swift and decisive climate action.
the task is to preserve a liveable planet in all of its biodiversity and the measures must live up to this target.
we will look very closely at whether this is an agreement that is of mutual benefit, that safeguards social and environmental standards and that does not endanger peace in northern ireland.
we need a robust level playing field to prevent a ruinous dumping competition in the social field, environmental standards and consumer protection standards.
we have negotiated a sustainable budget for the next seven years and have put together a multi-billion rescue package.
and second, approve a more ambitious emissions reduction target for 2030. raising the carbon emissions cut to 60%, or even better to 65%, will show to the eu citizens and the rest of the world that we are living up to our commitments on climate neutrality, and it’s time to fill the climate law with concrete and more ambitious plans - no public money for fossil fuels by 2025, an ambitious budget to fight climate change, an independent scientific climate council to guide decisions on the latest science.
the parliament has made its choices, now it’s time for the eu leaders to be up to the challenges and to really show the lead in overcoming the climate crisis.
we have come to the end of this project with complete conditionality, without even the environmental objectives to be met and, on top of that, with this shameful blackmail.
the risk is twofold: social dislocation and the ecological crisis being forgotten.
yet the crisis we are going through is systemic, it is ecological.
by putting climate in the background, we are fuelling the very evils that are now driving us backwards in terms of public freedoms and social justice.
mrs von der leyen, you have to be patient, we cannot negotiate with the climate.
five years after the paris agreement, the french council of state has just reiterated, following the dutch supreme court, that climate action is a must.
in view of our historical responsibility, the current delays in achieving the climate target of at least 55%, or even 60% as we are calling for by 2030, are miserable.
this is not sustainable.
regarding environmental challenges, the strategy will be addressing the whole lifecycle of pharmaceuticals and we will be proposing to reform our pharma legislation to ensure environmental sustainability, but not only, by also strengthening cooperation with our international partners to ensure quality and environmental sustainability of active pharmaceutical ingredients (apis) currently imported from non-european countries.
we need to do more in the treatment of paediatric cancers and this pharmaceutical strategy will interact very closely with the europe beating cancer plan because it will support the goal of sustainable cancer prevention with the right incentives for innovation, for a vaccination against treatable infections that cause cancer and much more.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
we would not even consider passing legislation called 'energy security for the united states'.
we can also cooperate in this area, as well as in the protection of the paris agreement on climate change, its implementation and workers' rights.
we’re willing to engage in broader shared efforts: wto reform in general, lifting unfair sanctions on eu steel and aluminium, developing effective ways of greening trade rules in order to live up to the challenge of climate change.
the carbon correction at the border, for example, is going to be an incredibly important topic to work on, but also the digital tax, which we're going to need to get our own recovery going.
in conclusion: yes, we will support and approve this agreement, but it must be a first step to work towards a sustainable future and to work towards trade relations that should ensure that in the future we can ensure that we can get out of this pandemic and thus write a positive story all over the world.
trade policy is not just about tariff liberalisation, but must go hand in hand with the promotion of human rights and the fight against climate change.
i recall that, again in the agri-food sector, six years ago it was the victim of russian counter-sanctions in response to european support for the united states on sanctions against the russian federation, with a total loss in 2017 of the european agricultural sector and food industry of about 5.5 billion euros and a reported damage to the agri-food made in italy of about one billion euros by 2020. to this must be added the heavy sustainability commitments that farmers may be called upon to respect in the coming community rules.
however, with a joe biden presidency, we’re likely to see a more multilateral approach and cooperation on such things as climate change, prevention of future pandemics, open trade environment, all this is very positive.
and it is incomprehensible that in times of global warming the americans have withdrawn from the paris climate agreement.
since 2015, the european union and many countries, parliaments and cities have declared a climate and environmental emergency.
since then, we have envisioned a more sustainable development model with environmental and social justice at its core.
we want europe to become the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. we want to be first in class.
emission reduction targets are a measure of our ambition and, under european climate law, the european parliament sees a 60% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as the key to achieving our goals.
it is our responsibility as a parliament to ensure that the union continues to be a pioneer in the fight against climate change.
the commission is also proposing to increase the number of projects in the area of the environment and to increase the number of projects in the area of the environment.
the combination of the health crisis, the social crisis and the climate crisis can quickly lead us to chaos.
on friday, all eu leaders agreed on a new target: to cut co2 emissions by 55% by 2030. that's good.
if we take into account the products imported from china, our co2 emissions have never decreased.
our emissions, our carbon footprints have never gone down.
2021 must be the year of renewal, of a new start for europe, of a new social reality, of a new ecological reality.
the european commission itself says that to win the battle for climate and jobs, more than €600 billion of additional investment is needed every year.
and if the speculation tax can simultaneously pay off the common debt of the "next generation eu" and finance the climate and employment plan, whoever blocks the negotiation will have to explain to his voters that he prefers to lower pensions or health spending rather than taxing traders a little.
i hope that in the next six months we will bring about the union for health, climate and employment.
this budget will allow the union to mobilise significant funds for a continued eu response to the coronavirus pandemic and its consequences, to kick—start a sustainable recovery and to protect and create jobs.
(the beginning of the intervention was not made at the microphone) ... sustainable.
the european parliament - and this was the priority of our political group and of mine as a member of the committee on budgets of the european parliament - has achieved significant increases for the new european programme for health, youth and education, as well as for research, digitalisation, the environment, agriculture, humanitarian aid and infrastructure.
it is quite rare to see such an increase, particularly on environmental issues life programme, european environment agency , but also on transport.
the newly announced target of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 is a new effort, but it is still largely insufficient.
in this race against the clock, against climate change, against the loss of biodiversity, against the destruction of our so-called development model, we must go stronger and we must go much faster.
it is the carbon tax at the border, it is the tax on speculation and financial transactions, it is the tax on the digital giants, this is the great work that awaits us if we want to have the means of our ambitions and finally be able to drive the ecological and social transition that our continent needs.
i would like to see a clear and logical text, without liberal, pseudo-humanist or pseudo-ecological undertones.
let us defend the common sense of the member states in the sustainable management of water.
after all, science warns: environmental research reported microplastics in apples and carrots, and nature sustainability reported microplastics even in grain above ground.
ladies and gentlemen, 1.8 million european citizens have called for new water legislation to make them feel safer, to improve the environment.
we can recover 25% of the phosphate we need from human waste and from our wastewater, but european legislation and regulations do not yet allow this.
can the commission state when it will allow the reuse of phosphate from waste water?
water management is actually a problematic daughter of the climate challenge.
so we have to tackle climate change head-on.
the recently passed climate law should help us improve the quantitative management of water.
the green deal, the biodiversity strategy, the 'farm to fork' strategy, which aim at a 50% reduction in pesticides, a 20% reduction in synthetic fertilisers, and a 25% reduction in organic farming in agricultural areas by 2030, must help us to manage water resources in a better way.
agriculture, which mobilises more than 50% of the freshwater resource, is both a victim of climate change, a culprit of climate change, and a solution to climate change, if it is accompanied by new directions.
public policies, rather than trying to deal with the consequences of agricultural practices that are responsible for the qualitative and quantitative degradation of water bodies, must, in line with the green deal and with contemporary challenges, prefer to tackle the causes, the roots of the problem by supporting the transition to agriculture that respects water resources, with a zero pollution objective.
i also welcome the inclusion in this regulation of the agricultural part of the recovery plan, building on the current architecture but shifting support to the most relevant measures: support for young farmers, investments, without however weakening the environmental ambition of the cap.
tens of thousands of citizens are mobilizing through the youth-led climate petition, but you're still deaf.
how many ecological disasters, farmer suicides, farm closures or species extinction will it take for you to finally act?
stand up to the climate emergency: let's withdraw these bad plans and use the two years of transition to pave the way for an agricultural and food policy that respects people, the planet and animals.
the greens are of course also particularly concerned about strengthening climate protection and thus emphasizing the so-called do no harm principle in climate protection, that is, the exclusion of climate-damaging investments in react-eu.
as is the time limit of the programme: react-eu is a short-term, targeted crisis aid for member states, not a competitor to the regular eu cohesion policy with its high quality standards and strong sustainability objectives.
i think you can't talk about crisis management in 2020 without taking the green deal to the climate crisis and putting in place a stronger, more binding climate spending target.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
these include: improving healthcare, strengthening labour market and social protection measures, boosting business liquidity and investing in sustainable development.
in conclusion, this crisis is a huge challenge, but also a great opportunity for the sustainable development of a digital europe and a more resilient economy, and that is why we are not using the recovery funds to maintain the status quo but to find new and better solutions.
and if you gave up the environmental condition to allocate these emergency funds, you couldn't help but slip your old obsessions into it.
i don’t mind what it is, but it needs to be more engaging on climate change and digitalisation.
this is one of the consequences of the big shift that climate change policies will create on the wealth of nations.
the stock of oil is a wealth that depends on its price, and its price depends on demand, and demand depends on the climate policy that we are going to follow.
i dream for both our shores of a grand plan that puts social, cultural, environmental and values at its heart, that targets young people and people rather than the worn-out and delegitimized elites, that makes our mediterranean a sea of exchange and hope rather than a graveyard of migrants and their dreams.
the mediterranean is too much a space of divergence rather than integration, of huge socio-economic disparities instead of shared progress, it’s a deadly place where migrants drown, much to our shame, and it’s one of the places that will be hardest hit by climate change.
mr president, there is no other way but to cooperate in the mediterranean, where the challenges are most acute, from climate change to migration flows, pandemic issues, but also security issues.
as president of the political committee for the mediterranean, i can confirm that we need resources to work constructively in a mediterranean cooperation centred on energy and with common rules on international law and respect for the sovereignty of states.
once upon a time, there was a historic multiannual budget and recovery plan that, with a magic wand, would save europe, halt climate catastrophe, protect human rights and end the crisis.
on climate, you tell us the extraordinary adventure of a european union at the forefront of a noble quest to save the planet.
but your target of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 is already below what parliament had adopted.
not to mention, of course, your accounting gimmicks that allow you to deduct carbon sinks, like forests, while ignoring the climate footprint of our imports.
on human rights, on the social crisis, on the climate, he was once the european union's dream hero, ambitious and progressive, fighting proudly on the side of the good against the bad.
but without a strong budget, financed by fair taxation - the financial transaction tax, the tax on financial levies, the carbon tax with a sufficient volume - europe will remain a giant with feet of clay and its future will be threatened.
first, an economic problem, because we are creating new debt in an unstable environment.
economic recovery and sustainable and inclusive development cannot be achieved without strengthening women's rights, their greater participation in decision-making and political processes, equal opportunities and treatment, the fight against all forms of physical and moral violence, and the safeguarding of sexual and reproductive health and rights.
the european union has also been able to go beyond itself: the birth of the europe of health, the first climate law, a historic recovery plan.
getting ministers together in formal gender equality training would be a way of giving real weight to these inequalities and treating them with the importance they deserve, as well as trade, industry, finance, economics, environment.
and we have a fundamental requirement: this union of 27 member states, which functions democratically on a voluntary basis and under the control and impetus of your parliament, is based on values, common policies, an economic and social foundation which is the single market, much more than a free trade area, an ecosystem; we are also asking for these values, these principles and this single market to be preserved.
it must be based on what is called a 'level playing field' - i prefer to say 'fair competition' - that is, rules of fair competition and high standards, particularly in terms of social, environmental and climate standards.
i am thinking of connectivity in air and road transport and energy, or cooperation in social security.
they take place in an unprecedented environment and under extreme time pressure.
i remain convinced that it is in our mutual interest to agree on a sustainable, a trustful and a balanced partnership with the united kingdom, which is one of our closest partners and an ally.
climate change, covid, the economic crisis, terrorism, an unstable and unpredictable world, repeated attacks on our democracies are threats as much to london and paris as to berlin and brussels.
an agreement where we would choose sovereignly to continue to be ambitious on the environment, on the protection of our workers, on the protection of our data.
what a waste of time.
and who knows, perhaps a trade agreement will emerge from this negotiation which, unlike those the union has passed so far, will be a healthy emulation of ever higher social, environmental and other standards, rather than a perpetual race to the bottom.
and we will measure the commission precisely by this, because as the left in the european parliament we have been fighting for many years for a new generation of other trade agreements, namely agreements that provide a strong answer in the social and labour, environmental, human rights and consumer protection areas, not only for the eu but also for the trading partners.
ensuring there are standards – high, democratic, environmental, social standards – in our trading and cooperation with the uk is still a priority.
we will therefore look closely at whether we can achieve a level playing field, whether we can secure services - public services in particular - whether we can establish consumer protection standards, whether we can secure workers' rights and further improve the environment.
this high concentration, together with the unilateral fixing of quotas, would cause a real ecological disaster.
states must use economic, social and environmental criteria when allocating fishing authorisations.
no one would understand why a giant industrial super-trawler that freezes its fish to export them to the other side of the world continues to fish if, at the same time, the artisanal fishermen, who sustain the economy of our coasts and take care of the environment, leave the business.
the position of a sustainable, balanced and long-term agreement was what michel barnier wanted.