fires in new south wales and queensland alone emitted a combined 306 million tonnes of carbon dioxide and they are generating enough heat to create unique weather systems, including cyclonic fire tornados.
and this is, yes, a biodiversity crisis.
in the face of this destruction, complacency should have no place, and the eu needs to remain a leader in fighting climate change when these things happen.
because we saw an unperturbed government in brazil when the amazon was on fire, and we are seeing an australian government that for the past months has been hesitating to link these fires to climate change.
it is even planning to use a carbon accounting loophole to fulfil its paris agreement commitments and this is not acceptable.
ultimately we are speaking about climate change.
that’s why we urge the australian government to recognise climate change, phase out its dependency on the fossil fuel industry, and honour the paris agreement now, before it’s too late.
the climate in australia is generally hot and dry.
however, it is not to be denied that climate change is also causing drier and hotter summers in australia, and thus affecting the length of the bushfire season.
of course, australia also has to meet its climate targets, and i expect that these targets will be met, partly because of the great potential of renewable energy.
the european parliament delegation will travel to australia in february to learn about the impact of the fires and progress in climate action.
for weeks now, they have been wreaking havoc on australia's wildlife and biodiversity, threatening the lives of people and animals.
what is striking, when i listen to our debate, is the concern of the european parliament for climate change.
because if you look at the european parliament's actions, how does it care about the climate, if it moves to strasbourg for four days once a month, generating co2 and costs 110 billion euros a year?
it is an unacceptable balance sheet and it is yet another piece added to the ever-growing list of extreme weather events that are caused by climate change.
yet the dramatic images of the fires are not enough for the australian prime minister, who not only responded belatedly to the fires but also declared that his conservative government will not strengthen policies to combat climate change.
how will you ensure that sustainability objectives and environmental protection standards are included in the sustainable development chapter?
we all know that these extreme bush fires cannot be viewed separately from climate change.
this is not a casual emergency – this is a climate emergency, stemming from a climate crisis.
now the question is whether these catastrophic fires will bring some sanity to australian climate politics.
the conservative government, led by prime minister morrison, has done nothing to meet its climate commitments.
during the un climate talks in madrid, ‘scomo’ sided with brazil and saudi arabia to derail global action on cutting emissions.
how can a prime minister make fear of the costs of climate action more terrifying than the actual results of climate change themselves?
the devastating australian fires underline the magnitude of the effects of inaction at the recent cop 25 climate conference.
but the european green deal is not and cannot be only about europe – climate diplomacy must become an integral part of our external policy and a fundamental pillar of our soft power around the globe.
there is no time to waste anymore.
leading by example we must bring all of our partners with us for common, bold political action on the climate crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that as soon as news of the tragic fires in australia was published, news of the arrests of some 200 arsonists who were alleged to have caused these fires was also published, thus weakening or even denying the link between fires and global warming.
ironically, this is all happening in a country that is the world's leading coal exporter and the largest spender on climate agreements.
but in this climate-threatened age, it is definitely darkness: human and animal lives being extinguished and property being destroyed.
when we discussed before the turn of the year whether we were going to see a climate emergency, this is exactly what we were talking about.
that's why it was so important to adopt a climate emergency.
the world ended - paradoxically, given the time we live in - the last decade by failing to adopt ambitious rules at the climate summit in madrid.
in the age of forest fires, it is very difficult to understand the politicians, the political parties and the countries that do not want to contribute to an ambitious climate policy.
this morning i was talking to a seven-year-old who is very close to me, my seven-year-old, about the fires in australia, and he said this: isn't this what car emissions contribute to?
we need to be much more ambitious in our climate policy.
we've known for a long time that this is a biodiversity that has lived a very separate life, and where the entire food chain is actually based on eucalyptus trees.
in other words, biodiversity originates in the food chain created by the eucalyptus.
five percent of australia's energy is generated from renewable energy.
this is a real catastrophe for man, animal and environment.
through deforestation and co2 emissions, the meat industry is a major contributor to the climate crisis - the biodiversity crisis, but especially the climate crisis - that makes these fires much worse.
knife and fork are our main weapons to fight climate change and help animals.
it’s disappointing that climate change has been blamed as the primary cause of these devastating bushfires by both our parliament and other so—called climate experts.
the cult of climate change marches on with no definitive evidence to support or deny the factual accuracy of their assertions.
logic suggests that climate change has little to do with this natural catastrophe.
this parliament needs to urgently address its own excessive, avoidable carbon footprint by rationalising the waste associated with running three parliament buildings in different geographic locations.
of course, for reasons of political sectarianism, parliament has rejected my proposal to open and operate the resceu programme to help australians and has contented itself, as i have been hearing for some time, with making big statements about climate change but not doing anything concrete.
madam president, the tragic and horrific bushfires in australia have once again been hijacked by the extreme eco—evangelists, who ascribe every natural disaster to anthropogenic climate change.
the climate fearmongers dishonestly claim that australia has experienced steadily worse droughts.
so, yet again, i feel compelled to dispel the myth that this is caused by man-made global warming.
so stop using this devastating tragedy to promote your extreme, overtly political environmental agenda of radical change to our economic system that won’t budge the global thermostat.
in fact, i did some research last week which showed that the environmental lobby had prevented exactly what my colleague said: away from the local autonomous regions dictating how policy should be mandated and towards the federal level, and then being hamstrung by the environmental lobby again, which prevents what i would call moderate fires and felling, which have actually been eliminated because they believe it causes too much co2.
(applause from certain quarters)
madam president, it’s indeed somehow very fitting that this first debate in this parliament in the new year 2020 is on climate change because this must be the year that the world, as a whole, finally bites the bullet on climate action.
with current policies we are on track for over three degrees of warming, and the tragic fires in australia offer a foretaste of the human and ecological disasters that result.
as meps across the political spectrum have acknowledged, there’s overwhelming evidence that climate change makes these types of events more frequent and more severe.
to those in australia who are fighting the fires and their human and ecological impact, we stand with you in solidarity and in mourning.
to those in australia who are fighting to make their leaders recognise and act on the climate emergency, we stand with you in solidarity and hope.
and to those europeans who want to sweep the climate under the carpet while pursuing free-trade agreements, i say simply, think again.
it is precisely this type of mismanagement that has made the eu’s common fisheries policy an economic and environmental disaster.
weird weather events must be a warning to everybody that climate change does not respect international boundaries.
it is up to the elected representatives of every nation to protect our planet from environmental destruction, and britain is so much worse off without the european union.
i mean, it doesn’t seem very environmental not to offer a colleague a lift to the same building.
in all its resolutions, the european parliament dealt with citizens’ rights, but still today we see risks to the sustainability of commitments agreed in the withdrawal agreement – hence this new resolution.
but can you imagine a case where a woman goes to see her parents on the continent, comes back and at the border they ask, ‘where is your email?’ – ‘i don’t have my email, there is no energy anymore in my battery’ – or maybe she deleted the mail, so she cannot enter the uk.
it is a question of regulating every single political, economic and environmental aspect which will determine future coexistence on and off the channel.
this is unacceptable, neither in social matters nor in tax policy, neither in environmental matters nor in consumer protection.
automatic rights and favourable treatment have quickly transformed into talk of deportations and a hostile environment.
this deliberate tax on voting is part of the uk government’s hostile environment for unwanted residents.
first of all, it seems like the same old discussion on the european budget that was started by the previous commission, and secondly, when we are talking about a sustainable investment plan, i sincerely hope it’s not just another juncker investment plan 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, where are we now?
but also we need to address changes in fiscal policies, and if then in the draft we see that you are planning a debate, and the outcome of that debate will form the basis for any possible future just steps – including how to treat sustainable investment – that doesn’t read like the change that we need also in our fiscal policies.
madam president, commissioners, the commitments the eu has made in the field of energy are clear and very high-minded.
but no region should be left behind in the quest for a more sustainable future, which will require it to change the foundations of its economy.
for example, in the uk, we currently pay gbp 12 billion a year in renewable obligation certificates and other forms of green levies that go directly on household bills.
companies must ensure that the low price of their products is not at the expense of human rights or the environment.
do you agree with me that europe has no chance to be energy-independent while it is still reliant on russia?
europe is changing, the world is changing, we have new challenges in technology, security, the environment.
the european green deal marks a necessary effort to stop climate change and protect biodiversity for good.
pollution never has, and never will, stop at national borders.
in my home town of faversham, air pollution is three times in breach of legal limits, and the government in which our own mp is a minister permits it to continue.
local councillors and the community are pushing our own environmental projects: we have become a plastic—free town.
europe’s new green deal promises prevention of environmental damage that harms us now and endangers our children’s future.
madam president, the climate and environmental emergency is one of the most important challenges facing humanity, and all states and players worldwide must do their utmost to fight it.
europe urgently needs a new sustainable economic model that has to fit for the 2020s, meaning that it must combine social and environmental progress, reduce inequalities and improve the well-being of all, leaving no person and no place behind.
the uk’s geographical area is right there: a big land mass that requires consideration if we are to really tackle the climate crisis.
wales was the first country in the world to declare a climate emergency, and we want to work with our neighbours.
the european green deal must put all of europe on the path to long-term sustainable growth, prosperity and well-being.
the eu as a global leader in climate action, and the european green deal must ensure that environmental, economic and social policies are developed to secure just transition and to pave the way for positive and sustainable social, industrial and economic change.
madam president, the eu needs to tackle the climate crisis right now.
the european green deal is a major policy tool to help us finally address inequalities across europe through the transition to a zero-carbon continent.
as greens, we will keep pushing the commission to implement a genuine green deal that integrates social protections, raises environmental ambitions and, crucially, engages people on this journey through citizens’ assemblies.
madam president, we would like to remind you of our strong commitment to our nations being at the forefront of the fight for the environment.
this is vital for people and biodiversity.
the best thing that can happen to the environment is market capitalism.
reforestation, increase in biodiversity, reintroduction of endangered species, these things are overwhelmingly happening in countries that have opened their markets to the world and have become wealthy enough to be able to afford them.
we need to ensure that the populists do not exploit the fear that people have around the change, and the onus is on us to make sure that the people understand the importance not only of their work continuing, but also the sustainability of the planet.
(applause from certain quarters)
mr president, while the upcoming un biodiversity conference aims to build a common future for all life on earth, when it comes to britain’s seas, the eu’s attitude is little more than take, take, take.
just look at the vast amounts of biodiversity killed in british waters by dutch electric pole fishing – a method banned by the chinese for being too efficient.
these are only two small examples of the eu putting profit before biodiversity.
until the eu takes action to stop practices which threaten the environment of its backyard, it has no right to lecture anyone else.
the biodiversity we have inherited is a precious resource that we all share and that we simply have to protect for our children and our grandchildren.
we must take serious action now to set concrete binding targets to protect nature, reduce carbon emissions and address the climate emergency.
the eu’s biodiversity targets set for 2020 will not be met.
they are cornerstones of democracy and of sustainable peace building.
madam president, we’re on the verge of a catastrophic biodiversity loss, and it’s great news that this parliament passed a resolution today for the cop15 convention on biological diversity.
the deadlines for mr nethsingha's report on the verification of credentials are as follows: amendments to the rules of procedure wednesday 29 january at 18.00; separate votes and separate votes: wednesday, january 29th at 9 p.m. (parliament adopted the amendments) wednesdaythe gue/ngl group has called for the title of the commission's statement on the 'eu mobility and transport strategy: measures needed for 2030 and beyond' to be changed to 'eu strategy for sustainable mobility and transport: measures needed for 2030 and beyond'.
but before that vote i’d like to say thank you to all parliamentary colleagues, to dacian cioloș and friends in the renew europe group whom i have been proud to serve as a vice-president, and thank you to the eu for all the support given to my region and my country over decades, in education, science and medicine, in shared prosperity, opportunity and support for business, in protection of the environment and workers’ rights and by preserving europe’s peace – and let me tell you that my parents survived the war we remembered earlier and they knew exactly what they were voting for in 1975. one special thank you to our translators, who have had to help the brits rather more than most, and i apologise to them that i am now going to try and speak in more than one language to deliver one last message, as much on behalf of my children as myself: wir werden wieder kommen.
these people are now subject to renewed economic and commercial interests, exploited as cheap labour, forced to abandon their land when resources or wealth are discovered, and, again, the main victims of the effects of deforestation and climate change, from melting glaciers to global warming itself.
ladies and gentlemen, we must do more and better to protect the earth's guardians from old and new threats, but above all we must intensify the dialogue with these peoples, who with their deep knowledge of the environment in which they live can and must play a key role in the effort to combat climate change.
the eu follows closely the situation of human rights in brazil, particularly human rights defenders, indigenous peoples and all those working to protect land, environment, biodiversity and climate.
the eu-mercosur association agreement would serve as a valuable tool to further promote the protection of human rights and to address environmental issues in brazil and the region.
it includes provisions on human rights, indigenous peoples and cooperation on sustainable development.
in the trade part, a trade and sustainable development chapter provides for binding commitment to the effective implementation of the multilateral environmental agreements – including the paris agreement – ratified by each of the parties.
languages are a key component of human rights and fundamental freedoms and are also important for the achievement of sustainable development, as the geographical knowledge, collective knowledge and experience of indigenous communities are encoded in these languages.
so it is only through these mediating languages that this knowledge, which also helps to overcome global environmental challenges, can be passed on to future generations.
it is based on shared values of democracy, rule of law, respect for human rights, commitment to the rules-based global order, effective multilateralism and sustainable development.
our priority is growth because without growth there is no stability and growth is achieved if we give more flexibility to the states for investment, especially the green ones for the ecological transition by discounting them from the deficit-gdp calculation.
i wish with all my heart that we could continue to have the conversations we have started with you about the green deal, sustainable food and farming, a just transition, pesticide, reforming the common agricultural policy (cap), but for now, we can’t.
why does the commission not base its work programme on the un sustainable development goals?
first of all: the climate and biodiversity must come first.
it's not enough to have a climate bill for 2050. we should have binding targets of 70 per cent by 2030. you have to have that.
climate change is undoubtedly the main cause of this storm.
two floods in a few months is catastrophic climate change.
we need european help, because climate change is not going to affect us alone; we are at the forefront, but it is going to affect all of us.
let me tell you that this is going to happen again; that the damage is largely avoidable; that we need a special action plan for the valencia buffer - a unique natural site in the world which can be lost if we do not take care of it - and that the transitional funds for the ecological economy must not only take account of the changing economy, but also take account of the fact that nature must adapt to this new economy and that these damages which are now so often caused to my land must be covered by aid so that neither farmers nor businessmen nor people lose their businesses or, above all, their lives again.
it is the second time in four months that our beaches, fields and towns have been flooded, flooded and devastated by the relentless effects of climate change on the spanish mediterranean coast, and especially in the valencian community, my constituency, one of the most vulnerable areas in europe.
but it is essential to act in the medium and long term to minimise the effects of climate change in the future.
that is why, commissioner, i ask the commission to draw up a specific climate strategy for the mediterranean of a cultural nature.
the valencia estuary, the ebro delta and the mar menor in murcia are areas of very high ecological value which need to be protected and the resources and cooperation of all administrations are needed.
climate change will require more money to be allocated to individual member states affected by climate change in the future, and a mechanism to respond in a more flexible and resilient way will really need to be found.
floods such as this can no longer be called entirely natural disasters because, as we know, climate change is making these disasters, tragically, more frequent and more severe.
in my seven months in this chamber, i have pushed hard for stronger and faster european action to address the climate crisis.
we must take faster and stronger action on the climate and ecological crisis.
hopefully, we will continue to work closely together as neighbours, continuing the fight to stop catastrophic climate change and keep peace in the world at these turbulent times.
in 2016, each european produced 16 kg of waste.
i emphasize the electrical waste.
if we're going to deliver on the green deal that we've adopted, universal charging is just one step we can take to help improve the environment, to save resources.
not only does this cut down on waste and unnecessary electronic accessories, it achieves something that we, as meps, are elected to do: it makes life easier for european citizens.
everyone knows there are far too many cables and charges in our homes and this amounts to around 50 million tonnes of waste globally every year, as mr wallace just mentioned.