mr president, unfortunately the nightmare that is happening in australia does not happen by itself, it happens because of climate change.
so we would not object to the resceu part being a part of the title, but we would object to removing the reference to climate change from the title.
in 2008, the garnaut report on climate change commissioned by the australian government projected that fire seasons would be longer, fires would be more intense and their effect would increase over time, becoming fully observable in 2020. our own science from the grc of 2018 says exactly the same: longer seasons, larger areas, bigger fires.
what did the current neoliberal climate-denying australian government do besides blocking agreement in cop25?
madam president, the invocation of climate change as the cause of the fires which have claimed dozens of lives and caused untold environmental damage in australia conceals the fact that today science and technology are capable of limiting, preventing and suppressing the consequences of natural phenomena.
any changes in the climate cannot be an excuse.
the people's anger must become an organized struggle to make the environment and the land the property of the people, to take measures to ensure the safety and protection of the people.
in the light of the un sustainable development goals and mrs von der leyen's programme for the immediate implementation of principle 19 of the european pillar of social rights, i ask: how will access to housing programmes be ensured for all the vulnerable?
the consequences are devastating for the people, and again today the european union-us-nato rivalries with russia and china, with the involvement of countries such as turkey, egypt and others, for the control of energy have created an explosive situation in libya and the region.
in this environment, which is dangerous for the peoples, the turkish bourgeoisie is seeking, with the unacceptable turkish-libyan pact, to arbitrarily draw the maritime border in the mediterranean.
in this proposal, the commission promises to analyse the findings of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report on oceans and propose measures in the maritime area.
a week ago, a report published in the journal of advances in atmospheric sciences confirmed that in the past 30 years the oceans are heating 450% faster than they were in the previous 20 years.
as far as we know, the oceans are home to somewhere between half a million and 10 million marine species – in fact, the greatest habitat of biodiversity on our planet.
– mr president, we would like to change the title of today’s debate from ‘eu strategy for mobility and transport’ to ‘eu strategy for sustainable mobility and transport’, and the reason is obvious.
only days after the european green deal has been proposed by the european commission, we must send the right signal that sustainability is our first priority – and not only in terms of climate or the environment, but also in social terms, so that the transition is fair for all.
it is important that we leave on good terms with a climate of friendly cooperation for productive talks on a trade deal ahead.
for the clean air we want for our children to eradicating energy poverty, to workers’ rights – that’s got to be worth fighting for.
as socialists and democrats from tomorrow we will work to ensure that the european union and the united kingdom continue to tackle together the great issues of our time, from the fight against inequalities to climate change.
in my capacity as chair of the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament, i stress the importance to foster dialogue and establish new comprehensive agreements regarding uk’s participation in union programmes in areas of common interest, such as research, defence and space.
future collaboration in energy sector will be key for the united kingdom to ensure that exit from the eu doesn’t disrupt its electricity market and does not slow down its de-carbonisation commitment by 2050. future relations should include as well a wide-raging nuclear cooperation agreement on the use of nuclear energy, underpinned by commitments to existing high standards of nuclear safety.
in the debate on the future of transport, we must set three priorities which are inextricably linked to each other: first, clean transport for the climate and for human health.
we know that transport is responsible for 27% of greenhouse gases, while air pollution, particularly in urban areas, is causing millions of premature deaths.
we mustn't waste any more time.
a necessary relationship, when we measure economic interests, but also climate issues or security issues.
first, geert bourgeois has just mentioned the question of cooperation, particularly in the north sea, on energy.
we naturally want to cooperate with the united kingdom in this north sea region on energy matters.
the agreement will also safeguard labour rights, strengthen democracy and respect for human rights and contribute to the fight against climate change.
hippocrates said, ‘let food be your medicine, and medicine be your food’, and here the green deal is equally wise in demanding a new cap that is a climate-adaptation and a climate-mitigation strategy: a cap that leaves no one behind and that ensures a just transition.
we must have a smart, fair, sustainable cap, with a proper budget, that would strongly support our farmers to achieve the environmental, climate, biodiversity and human well—being objectives of the union.
sufficient funding is key to achieving common ambitions such as fighting climate change, the digital and ecological transformation, dealing with the social consequences of the later and continuing to support regions and cities, farmers, young people, researchers or entrepreneurs.
such a situation not only puts airlines' operations and thousands of jobs at risk, but also causes increased environmental damage.
developing a long-term sustainable economy plan will make the eu more resilient and will further strengthen the social pillar.
the key to recovery is to channel resources to support industrial renewal, digitalisation and sustainable growth.
it is good that the latest commission proposal includes some additional funds for achieving climate neutrality.
at the same time, however, i am disappointed that the proposal cuts the cef programme, which finances crossborder transport, energy and digital infrastructure.
the commission has proposed a clear, structured plan that aims to lead us out of crisis and into sustainable and long-term economic growth, based on a green transition and a digital transformation, as requested by the european council.
this includes major initiatives like next generation eu, which will boost the european budget in the first crucial years of the recovery and contribute, together with the reinforced budget for 2021—2027, to making it sustainable, inclusive and fair for everyone, including those in disadvantaged areas and those who were hit hard by the crisis.
the s&d group is therefore calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
inequalities, pandemics, climate change, digitalization -- these are challenges that we all face no matter where we live.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment-related measures.
today, therefore, we are calling for the safe resumption of travel, with mass testing, without financial burden on citizens, immediate support for work and businesses to remain competitive the next day, as well as effective tools for the future, a budget for tourism, a european crisis management mechanism including protection and compensation for travellers in the event of bankruptcy, and a comprehensive european strategy for sustainable tourism.
but i want to end by referring to latin america and the worrying emergence, increasingly, of murders and human rights violations of indigenous leaders, leaders of human rights defenders and leaders of the defenders of the territory and the environment.
some of my best friends live in that country and the country has come a long way in its aspirations for democracy, freedom and prosperity, and that in a very difficult geopolitical environment.
i can't imagine a sustainable global climate without china on board.
just yesterday, in the videoconference, these issues were addressed: climate change, trade, the economy, but also human rights.
i would also like to draw your attention to other issues that i would like to address here, because they are also the focus of the special council, because we all know that in march, due to the coronavirus, the important issues of the economy, digitisation and climate protection had to be left behind.
because if we are really serious about climate action, we also need to show that we are competitive in industrial policy, that we are the front runner.
this will give courage to those who say that industry is not compatible with ambitious climate action.
we must prove the opposite: climate protection, a sustainable industry, a competitive economy and a strong welfare state go together.
we believe that the issues of climate protection, sustainable economic development and social and ecological conversion play a central role in this process.
we can say russia, china and turkey, big empires in the past, are coming back with an approach on their immediate neighbourhood and globally, which represents, for us, a new environment.
and turkey is one of these elements that changes our environment.
but, as the high representative just underlined, further concrete steps towards creating an environment conducive to dialogue in good faith are needed now.
that is why you impose new taxes on the people, misleadingly calling them own resources, while the recovery plan is mainly directed at supporting businesses in high-profit areas such as green energy, digital technology and networks.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the importance of urban and green infrastructure european year for greener cities 2022 by sirpa pietikäinen, christel schaldemose, karin karlsbro, bas eickhout, jadwiga wiśniewska and idoia villanueva ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000039/2020) (b9-0014/2020).
i am here today on behalf of the environment committee to talk about how we can make our cities greener.
they are key to tackling the major climate and environmental challenges we face.
green cities are about ensuring longer and better lives, and they're about combating the consequences of the climate crisis.
each year hundreds of thousands of people die prematurely because of air pollution.
and after air pollution, noise pollution is the biggest environmental cause of health problems.
green initiatives in cities can also help to safeguard our biodiversity, because with noise barriers and flood protection and air purification initiatives, we can actually help our bees, butterflies, flowers and other fauna.
that is why we in the committee on the environment have wanted to ask this question.
so to sum up: green infrastructure can tackle many of the challenges facing urban environments, such as the consequences of extreme weather, loss of biodiversity, etc.
in other words, we in the committee on the environment want to make an effort for green cities and we want to ask the commission what it is going to do to support this development of green cities.
the ambition to green european cities and increase biodiversity in urban spaces was enshrined in the goals set out in the european green deal, which highlights the importance of urban green infrastructure for improving the quality of life in urban areas.
reflecting the importance of this subject, you propose in your draft resolutions a european year of greener cities for 2022, which could possibly offer a platform to promote policies and to buy in support at city level to strengthen the implementation of eu environmental laws and policies and, thereby, to support delivery of the european green deal.
the green city tool offers guidance and advice, including on funding and capacity-building, and the soon-to-be-launched green city accord, which aims to support the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 by encouraging greater nature and biodiversity actions in cities.
let me also mention the urban partnership on sustainable land use and nature-based solutions, which forms part of the urban agenda for the eu as well as the urban innovative actions programme, that supports the testing of innovative ideas in cities, including in the area of green infrastructure.
the eu maes initiative, which provides technical guidance for cities through the mapping and assessment of ecosystems and their services; the horizon 2020 policy agenda for nature-based solutions and re-naturing cities, which aims to position the eu as a leader in innovating with nature; as well as the horizon europe mission on climate-neutral and smart cities, which will support 100 european cities in their systemic transformation towards climate neutrality and the biodiverse cities pilot project, which aims to enhance the use of green infrastructure in the urban context.
let me recall that scaling up the deployment of green infrastructure plays a key part in the recent eu biodiversity strategy for 2030, which recognises the importance of green urban spaces and calls on european cities of at least 20 000 inhabitants to develop ambitious urban greening plans by the end of 2021. the biodiversity strategy also contains a roadmap for planting at least 3 billion additional trees in the eu by 2030, which will be part of our upcoming forest strategy.
this should help improve connections between green spaces, eliminate the use of pesticides in cities, and limit excessive mowing of urban green spaces and other biodiversity-harmful practices.
the commission will also reflect this objective in the european climate pact.
as a key element of our biodiversity strategy for 2030, green cities remain high on our political agenda, and i am counting on your, as well as on member states’ and regions’, support to implement our ambitious goal to bring nature back to our cities.
green spaces provide many services of health and economic value, promote biodiversity and allow those with less access to nature to enjoy nature.
biodiversity is in crisis and climate change is getting worse.
green built environments improve air quality, reduce noise and co2 levels, mitigate the effects of extreme weather events, protect biodiversity and encourage mobility.
the theme of the year raises awareness of the importance of green spaces, highlights the economic and environmental benefits of green spaces and their role in improving quality of life and influences planning policy.
the coronavirus has further highlighted the need to add green spaces to the urban environment where people can move freely and comfortably, taking care of physical distancing.
that is why i tabled one amendment on district heating, which can make a significant contribution to improving air quality by reducing low emissions from homes; i know that this element is undervalued in many countries, but in my region of europe it has a significant impact.
the challenge is to ensure a resilient digital environment that protects citizens' security, privacy, data, the production system and intellectual property, and that is able to cope with cyber threats.
mr president, this house has supported the european green deal and the climate law by a large majority.
how do we protect the most vulnerable to the climate crisis, the farmers?
what chance do we have for sustainable, healthy and resilient food systems?
what alternative do we have left to prevent catastrophic climate change and rapid biodiversity loss?
for greece, the new cap and its full link with the biodiversity directive and the farm to fork strategy represents a unique opportunity to finally exploit its exceptional comparative advantages in producing quality and healthy food with respect for people and the environment.
they continue to be under-represented in foreign policy, particularly in positions of responsibility and decision-making, and thus weaken our ability to secure sustainable peace and build more resilient societies.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, climate neutrality requires innovation at all levels and not just in technology.
the climate law we recently passed is an example of regulatory and policy innovation.
with the investment plan for a sustainable europe, and especially in view of the upcoming review of the strategy for sustainable finance, we are laying the foundations for the success of the european green deal and the building of a socially, economically and environmentally resilient europe.
with a view to implementing the agreement on the multiannual financial framework reached yesterday, we must ensure that public money produces public goods and that it promotes and does not undermine public health, social cohesion and climate security.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health and safety of workers at work, which is the subject of a proposal from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
but most importantly, with our vote today we are giving time for the effective preparation of the national cap strategic plans after 2022, while demanding a real open consultation with everyone, with everyone involved on the way to the transition to 2030 and 2050. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity and the obligation to stand with those who are most economically vulnerable to the climate crisis, who are none other than farmers.
and that means: a decent income, a new sustainable and equitable model of production and consumption, quality healthy and sustainable food for citizens, measures to combat biodiversity loss and finally attractive, vibrant, thriving rural areas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, commissioner, we are looking forward with great anticipation to the new commission proposals for the revision of the adaptation strategy in the face of the climate crisis, which is endangering the continuity of human civilization.
we have no choice but to take bold adaptation measures now to address the inevitable climate impacts for their social, economic and environmental costs.
social cohesion, a clear distinction between adaptation and mitigation investments, the gender dimension, climate refugees, the creation of a loss-and-loss mechanism, the strengthening of the resilience of island regions are thematic areas that should guide the new strategy.
enhanced governance of adaptation at both european union and member state and local government level, as outlined in parliament's proposal for climate legislation, should include legally binding targets.