we face a huge climate crisis that impacts everyone and we need to act now, both at eu level and also in the member states.
the european commission has already made some promises in that regard, which we applaud, but it also needs the member states and too many of them have been blocking environmental progress in the past.
we need the member states along, active and pushing when it comes to climate action.
to fill this role, we also encourage you and your government to implement your own fair and ecological transition in croatia.
this presidency is a big chance for your country and your government to show the rest of europe what your visions and your ideas for our common future are, but the presidency will also turn a spotlight on croatia and how much your global words are met with local action, both on human rights as well as on climate justice.
you can count on our support for bringing forward climate justice, social equality and rule of law, but you can also count on us to call out any human rights violation, no matter where, no matter by what government.
and then there's climate change, and i'd like to say: we are facing the greatest social challenge since the industrial revolution.
mr vice-president, climate change is a reality and we see it every day and it is threatening many parts of europe, including my country, the republic of croatia, and especially our coastal cities such as zadar, split and dubrovnik, which are real gems of historical heritage that must be protected.
first, when it comes to environmental protection and the green deal, there needs to be a strong and precise impact assessment of regulations that should be based on science, not ideology.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
whether it is the environment and climate, the economic and social sectors, the rights and freedoms of the european citizen must be guaranteed.
we have a strong commitment to climate action, we value social fairness and we hate ongoing tax frauds.
what a waste of time with successive installations of institutions.
the agenda includes the recommendation by guy verhofstadt, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the withdrawal of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland from the european union and the european atomic energy community (21105/3/2018 - c9-0148/2019 - 2018/0427(nle)) (a9-0004/2020).
but colleagues, what does ‘sovereignty’ in fact mean today, in a world that is completely dominated by powerhouses like china, like india, like the us; in a world where we have to challenge transnational problems like climate change and the digital supremacy – tomorrow, of china, today of the us?
we both believe that climate change needs to be fought as a matter of urgency.
the more united the united kingdom does commit to uphold our standards for social protection and workers’ rights, our guarantees for the environment and other standards and rules ensuring fair competition, the closer and better the access to the single market.
we will devote all our energy, 24/7, to come to results.
that dominance destroys not only our environment but our economy, our jobs, our public services, our streets, our local libraries, our railways, our post offices, our schools, our entire social fabric.
because migration is a european union-wide issue and we therefore need a new common, efficient, sustainable and humane system of migration and asylum.
i would also like to welcome your choice to put sustainability at the centre of this debate, as it perfectly mirrors our common ambitions.
as we look to the future, and in line with president von der leyen’s political guidelines, our policy actions will, on the one hand, be guided by the ambition of the european green deal to ensure that transport makes its important contribution to climate neutrality by 2050 and, on the other, by a europe that is fit for the digital age when it comes to harnessing digital technologies to make mobility smart as well as sustainable.
the strategy on sustainable and smart mobility will have these two objectives at its heart and will guide us towards a transport sector that is fit for a clean, digital and modern economy.
what is certain is that the strategy must include ambitious measures aimed at significantly reducing co2 and pollutant emissions across all modes.
our comprehensive strategy for sustainable and smart mobility will have to be unprecedented in ambition to achieve a 90% reduction in emissions by 2050. i want to share what i see as the four principles that will guide transport’s contribution to the european green deal.
first: making the transport system as a whole more sustainable, making sustainable alternative solutions available to all citizens and businesses, respecting the polluters-pay principle in all transport mode and, not in the last, fostering connectivity and access to transport for all.
in this regard, we are already looking into specific initiatives to ensure the availability of marine alternative fuels and sustainable aviation fuels, second, increase the share of more sustainable transport modes, such as rail and inland waterways, and improving efficiency across the whole transport system.
thirdly, incentivising the right consumer choices and low—emissions practices.
fourth, investing in low-and zero-emissions solutions, including infrastructure.
on the road to a climate-neutral europe by 2050, it is essential that sustainable and smart go hand—in—hand.
safety and security: it should go without saying that, while we must embark on a significant reduction of emissions from transport and harness digital opportunities for the sector, safety and security will continue to come first.
and don't forget about transportation by waterways, inland waterways, which can bring economic development, but it can also bring emissions reductions.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, colleagues, transport is responsible for 30% of greenhouse gases.
it is the only sector that has not reduced its greenhouse gases since 1990 and, at the same time, no member state is complying with the paris agreements.
this phenomenon has also triggered a second dynamic, which is terrible because we are facing the disease of the 21st century, in particular air pollution: 800 000 premature deaths every year.
when we talk about state transport, i am afraid that croatia is far from being ready for the future of sustainable transport, as evidenced by the facts from the croatian transport development strategy from 2017, which says: the railway fleet is on average older than 30 years, 70% of locomotives in the next ten years will reach the end of their working life.
the existing railway operations are not sustainable without state support.
the new strategy on mobility and transport, therefore, must take these elements into account, in addition to having environmental protection as its main objective.
if we are to achieve the ambitious goal of achieving the total decarbonisation of our economy by 2050, we must reduce pollution and improve the air quality in our cities.
we need safer, more sustainable and more efficient mobility, but also reforms; we cannot create more problems for citizens, we must, without a doubt, give them solutions.
and in that sense, it is necessary - and i want to do it here today - to highlight the plan of the city of madrid madrid 360: a comprehensive plan to achieve safe, sustainable, efficient and inclusive mobility.
i'm sure you, more than any of us in this room, understand that sustainable mobility requires investment in green public transport, and at an accelerating rate.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of course five years ago, and four years ago, we heard speeches of the same kind: what we need to do to have sustainable, sustainable, green transport.
only in a partnership between the member states and the commission can we really make transport sustainable and sustainable.
commissioner, you mentioned in your speech the climate crisis, which is indeed a huge challenge that every state and every continent is affected by, and it’s high time for urgent action.
we’re very happy that this commission puts an emphasis on initiatives tackling the climate crisis as well as the dramatic loss of biodiversity on our planet.
but also it will depend on whether a majority of this house will support ambitious climate legislation, not to mention the member states as well, which we need to have on board.
therefore, it will depend on all of us how much climate action the eu will undertake and how much the eu will contribute to the global efforts to save the planet after having contributed – actually, a lot – to its destruction in the past.
the first word for this, the key word which was quite present in your speech, madam president, is of course to create a climate of confidence.
only if we pay attention, look at it from the right perspective and are agile, will we lead the development of artificial intelligence and create the ecosystem that we europeans ask for and need.
this project ends the aarhus convention which allows citizens the right of access to information, which gives them the right to co-decide in environmental matters like this.
we in croatia know how it looks, the real environment is being destroyed, only the rich establishment.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, and the establishment of a european environment agency.
we in croatia have a plan to build 11 waste management centers, two of which have already been built, maristchina and kastion, and we have gotten nothing from them except pollution and a big increase in bills.
firstly, the wrong common environmental policy.
i want to make it clear again that on this list, we are going to support about 50 gas projects 50 gas projects, and this in the age of climate change.
the aim is to promote projects in all member states which are actually harmful to the environment.
and it is also a sign of poverty, because it means that the declaration of the climate emergency in the eu, which we have just made here, is being practically thrown to the devil.
we need to have money for renewable energy sources, for example for cross-border electricity lines, which must be paid for.
in croatia, due to the failed waste management systems, we already pay higher and higher prices for garbage and water, medicines and their prices are compared to the richest countries in europe.
we should therefore ensure a safer online environment where children can safely enhance their education, communication and connections.
we must implement fair trade policies that encourage the trade of ethical products, striving to fulfil the united nations sustainable development goals.
in addition, madagascar is revising its mining code, and we call on the government to prioritise the compliance with its international commitments, including in terms of social and environmental standards, decent work and respect of human and children’s rights.
when yesterday chapters on sustainable development, with sanctions, were to be added to prevent child labour in vietnam, the renew group and the epp group voted against!
– madam president, the human and environmental price of our modern telephones and shiny cars is obviously becoming really intolerable, because we know that it is produced with child labour – with forced labour – without any knowledge by the consumers of where these products actually originate.
we also call on the commission to ensure that the future european union strategy for africa is based on ambition in line with the sustainable development goals and emphasises the rights of the child.
it's an outdated and failed system that destroys everything national, social, traditional and ecological.
it's a system that undermines society and the environment and is an enemy of all life on earth.
it's a system that is the antithesis of the sustainability that's so much talked about here.
we must look to the future for a radical change in the financial system and the decentralization of ownership of raw materials, food and energy.
it examines existing regulation and proposals, as well as options for regulating due diligence in companies own operations, and through the supply chain for adverse human rights and environmental impacts, including relating to climate change.
in a single market, it is not practical to have different national treatments, and the benefits of an eu-wide framework are obvious in terms of levelling the playing field and creating legal certainty for companies, as well as reaping opportunities stemming from the sustainability transition.
the global target to reduce road fatalities by 50% - part of the sustainable development goals - is expiring this year, and this target was not and will not be reached.
climate change demands that we reduce emissions, while digitalisation is opening up new opportunities for easier cleaner and safer mobility.
new technologies like the sharing economy and autonomous driving are already in use, and i'm sure they're a great solution for the burdened european environments that are also affected by the various diseases that we're dealing with here in different european cities from the emissions.
we're not talking about money allocated to the european union, we're talking about money that we allocate to, the member states, to develop this european union, to respond to the major crises that we face, and we need to think about this budget in a constructive way, focused on development, focused on sustainable development.
that is why i say that the budget must be a cover for both digitisation and the fight against climate change and security and agriculture, and i do not see all of that together in this draft budget at the moment.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, what a waste of time!
whether it is trade policy, migration policy, humanitarian policy, development policy or climate policy, all these policies must respect the principle of 'do not harm'.
i acknowledge there’s no clear political path at the moment, but i believe that is the only way to a sustainable peace, because we cannot leave it to the russians, for the fate of the people of idlib.
so ahead of next year’s 10-year anniversary, i call upon you today to appoint a special representative that can begin the process of developing relationships for a sustainable peace in syria.
at the end of april, there was a milestone event when the commissioner for justice, didier reynders, committed to a legislative initiative on mandatory human rights and environmental due diligence obligations for companies operating in the eu area.
implementing the rulings and decisions of international tribunals and promoting an environment conducive to reconciliation in order to overcome the legacies of the war are key elements for all countries in the region to progress towards eu accession.
three decades since the last introduction of a new own resource, a levy on plastics is an important first step but it is certainly not enough for the sustainability of the repayment.
but who can believe for a second that a gafam tax, a carbon tax or a plastic tax would be likely to achieve the repayment of this debt?
you mention the economic changes that would be necessary, you add burdens, standards, environmental constraints, in particular, for our companies, for our industries, for our farmers.
the european union, on the other hand, gets nothing: nothing on the investment agreement, nothing on human rights, nothing on the environment.
you give yourself a clear conscience with draconian environmental standards, but you're killing our businesses.
(applause) public money should also not enhance the climate crisis.
the common agricultural policy, as well as the trade policy, finally need to align with the green deal and the biodiversity strategy.
for the next seven years, we need a european climate budget.
but luckily we have in this house in our committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) a good climate law that has been prepared.
the climate cannot be negotiated with so we’d better move fast.
from the freedom fighters in belarus to the environmental activists in the amazon, to the democracy protesters in bulgaria, they are all looking at the european union to uphold fundamental rights, to defend pluralism and to enforce the highest climate and environmental standards both in europe and beyond.
(applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at one of the most difficult times for the economy, health and employment, the european union has responded with a recovery plan which provides for substantial funds to combat unemployment and for the environmental and technological transition.
as the 5 star movement, we expect the new european green deal to only invest in renewable energy and not to give favors to the fossil fuel lobby.
the motion for a resolution tabled by mr glinne and mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne and mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne and mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mr glinne, on own resources so, digital tax, carbon tax, financial transactions do not give up: we cannot increase the contribution of the member countries, already suffering from the pandemic, and ask for more sacrifices from the citizens.
on jobs, the environment, health, economic recovery, the citizens want the facts and we are here for them.
it is about further development, it is about the reconstruction of europe, it is about a social and ecological reconstruction of europe.
and that's why we're here to support you in strengthening digitization and climate action.
climate change in particular shows that there are still great fears and worries in our societies.
that's why we need a socially just climate change.
because the line that nationalists and populists keep trying to tell us is that climate change is a job killer is not true.
climate action is a way of securing future-oriented jobs.
but it has to be a fair climate change, and we support you in that, too.
i agree with the ambitious climate protection objectives, but the implementation of these will depend on the details, and i would simply encourage you, madam president, and the whole commission, to use the mechanisms for implementing the green deal, the climate protection programme, which are the key to our success in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
it is therefore positive that i heard you mention the priority to the digital and environmental agenda this morning.
if we really want to achieve our carbon neutrality targets by 2050, we have to start acting today.
i am pleased that the european commission has presented its plan to reduce pollution by at least 55% by 2030. we know that science requires much more of us.
this proposal should aim at a strategy to combat climate change, with forests being a key element in reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
it should aim at preservation, conservation and biodiversity at a time when only 15% of forests are in a favourable conservation status in the european union.
we therefore call for a vote on amendment no 2, which is the one that allows for a strategy for forests that really responds to the fight against climate change, and that is a strategy for our times and not a strategy of the past.
universal basic income will solve this pressure on forests, the devastation of the environment and nature.
in recent decades, there has been exponential population growth, and consequent consumption of energy, food, raw materials.
that's why we have environmental problems today, because emissions are outpacing the capacity of our continent.
europe has been a leader for decades in the drive to green our continent, and so climate legislation is part of that drive, which i hope will be followed by as many countries as possible, the rest outside the european union, those that produce 90% of the greenhouse gases.
today the commission is proposing to increase the reduction from 40% to 55%, and in parliament we have proposals 60, 65, 70. but, colleagues, we will not save the environment by passing tough and ambitious legislation, but in the economy, among the population, in the real world, among farmers.
this is where we need to make decisions that will enable the development of new technologies that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we need to prevent energy poverty for those people who have the lowest incomes.
we need to do it right, because today we are creating a climate-neutral europe, a leader in a healthier, better world, but on that path let's not get lost and entangled in commas, percentages and statistics.
and the fight against climate change should and must go hand in hand with budgeting.
let's show it now by voting for this climate act.
when this european parliament is going to give 383 billion euros in subsidies this week for more poison, more mega-stalls and more pollution?
many citizens do think about the climate by eating less meat, by putting solar panels on their roofs and by leaving their cars on the road a little more.
yet brussels continues to give billions of dollars in aid to the livestock industry, which is a disaster for animals and a disaster for biodiversity, and which emits more greenhouse gases than all the cars in europe combined.
while i welcome some of the provisions that have been identified in the cap, such as the intention to reduce pesticides by 50% by 2030, the need to increase agricultural land for organic farming to 25% and the preservation of biodiversity, the negative sides are much more, so as one of the main reasons for not supporting these acts, pointing out that the benefits will be mostly for corporations that will get the most money, while for small farmers, especially the pgi, which account for over 90%, the crumbs remain.
we need more and better europe to be able to achieve public health support, a sustainable and strong economic recovery in 2021 and to deliver on the goals that have been set.
the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000. i hope that the adoption of the larrouturou and chastel report by a large majority will also give a boost to the tripartite dialogue, so that the commission and the council can take steps towards the european parliament's views to support cohesion policies, farmers and gender equality, together with the necessary effort on climate objectives and the digitisation of the economy.
but just as important, this classism, this racism, this sexism was already present in access to basic rights before the pandemic: evictions, the commodification of health care, the precariousness of education, the keeping of thousands of people in irregularity, the sale of homes to vulture funds, energy poverty.
when we talk about consumer protection, in the context of a sustainable single market, attention should also be paid to the issue of early product obsolescence.
it is therefore time to use the achievement of a sustainable single market as an opportunity to strengthen the rights of our consumers, in cooperation with businesses in the common market.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, of course we are debating this evening, right after a very important sustainability report, here is an intention of the commission to find new measures to increase consumer protection.
the planet's health is its biodiversity, the fertility of its soil, its clean air, its clean drinking water and, of course, the living environment of its inhabitants.
who can claim to feel enlightened about the ecological and social impact of what they buy or consume?
now let's move into the era of conscious consumption, responsible consumption, more social, more ecological, more "climate sustainable".
what carbon footprint?
our goal is to build a real trust in consumers in the good functioning of the internal market and in the safety and sustainability of all products offered in the eu, offline and online, and of course, i am sure that we will work together to build such a trust within the european union.
the european commission published the new consumer agenda on 13 november, which aims to put consumers at the centre of the digital and ecological transitions as the driving force behind the recovery from this crisis.
it is about us wanting to move forward with the transformation of our energy supply in europe.
the green energy transition needs to be accompanied by greater liquidity and transparency in the markets for energy derivatives.
producers of green energy, electricity from wind or solar, need to negotiate forward contracts.
these contracts secure a minimum price for energy produced from renewable sources, and these forward supply contracts are derivative contracts.
they secure a certain price for green energy.
these forward contracts serve the real economy by providing some certainty to investors in the growing renewable energy sector.
second, to be effective, forward supply contracts need to be liquid and available on a new generation of energy exchanges.
if we maintain the current low position limit of 25% of market participants, these energy exchanges simply will not take off.
and this is particularly important for energy contracts in smaller member states, as contracts for forward delivery of green energy are still in their infancy.
energy prices have been volatile due to the more erratic demand for energy.
it is crucial that we protect the income for renewable energy producers when demand for energy is volatile.
fourthly, i want to be very clear that the commission is not using the covid crisis as a cover to introduce opportunities for food or energy price speculation.
the proposed amendments also do not apply to mature energy derivative markets.
these markets will remain subject to the rules agreed with parliament in 2016. securing a decent price for the delivery of green energy is not price speculation.
so in conclusion, inaction on energy derivative reform means that there are no transparent energy exchanges offering derivative contracts for electricity produced in smaller member states.
some will argue that there is no rush in reforming energy markets and that volatility is not going to last.
therefore, we cannot afford to postpone this important reform of energy markets for another year.
we adopt this ferber report in order to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens, to promote the recapitalisation of companies and to strengthen the international role of the euro by supporting the development of the energy derivatives market.
we can't waste any more time.
i went into mifid, first of all, the position limit regime that was introduced to prevent commodity speculation in the energy sector.
the commission maintains, and today reminds us, that the proposed changes to this system are carefully calibrated, because they will not apply to agricultural commodity products; this is true, but what is completely ignored is the strong interrelation between energy markets and food markets.
obviously, if there is a speculative attack on energy prices this will affect food markets, something that oxfam and finance watch have reminded us of, and they are right, mr ferber.
i should also like to say, commissioner, that the mifid directive states very clearly that before you touch on this scheme you should have submitted an environmental impact assessment, which you have not done.
we certainly do not think that we are going in the right direction and, in the specific case of mifid, it would be reasonable, sensible, to postpone this partial reform, to wait for the overall reform that we have to make, so that you can do your environmental impact assessment, and, with that, to face a global reform of the directive.
in addition, digital, climate and demographic changes are still present and accelerating, and require a common response.
the pharmaceutical strategy for europe is based on a holistic, patient-centred approach, which will ensure the supply of safe and affordable medicines to meet the needs of all patients and guarantee the sustainability of health systems.
secondly, by promoting innovation and digital transformation, for example through programmes to support science, innovation, training in smes, as well as other measures that make the innovation ecosystem in europe stronger.
the need to create a favourable economic ecosystem enabling smes to realise their full potential.
when the commission thinks of the large companies in industry, defence, aviation and the carbon-intensive automobile industry, i think of smes, which provide a social link, short circuits, ecological regeneration and employment in our territories.
we have a taxonomy that prescribes ecological criteria for loans and corporate governance - that is a significant intrusion into the sovereignty of companies.
do not the factories already have to comply with the most stringent environmental and climate regulations in the world?
why the complicated environmental proof now when you need funding?
ladies and gentlemen, the energy transition and sustainable production can only succeed if we take farms with us and do not put them at risk.
that water is vital to all of us is pretty obvious - it's vital to us humans, to the animals, to the plants, to the ecosystem, to our entire environment.
if the water contains too many dangerous chemicals, microplastics and other things that have been discussed here, it is clear that it ultimately affects our entire living environment.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the context of the union's climate change strategy.
i'll mention, for example, one of the many projects, it's the babin gora waste management project.
instead of being a means of development, funds have become a means of environmental and social devastation.