i welcome the fact that we are debating this very important subject, which is in the interest of both consumers and the environment, at the first plenary session of the year.
finally, i would like to stress that the new provision would also be beneficial from the point of view of environmental protection, since it would also significantly reduce the amount of electrical waste.
mr plenković, we listened very carefully to your priorities and we endorse your ambitions for there to be a stronger connection to promote the role of the european islands in the clean energy transition.
i think 5g is the basis for applications and, in particular, business models in transport, health and energy, and so the current patchwork that we have for the moment in the european union is not acceptable.
the climate crisis, burning inequalities, brexit, our long-term budget and also the growing problems with the rule of law in certain countries are all issues that have long-term consequences for our european family.
this is a big macroeconomic nonsense: first, because all countries must contribute to eliminating their emissions.
if we invest one point of gdp in these countries, we get the effect of three points of gdp on their economies and therefore on their ability to cut emissions.
the european union has set itself ambitious climate targets.
but these climate goals are not going to happen by themselves, they require a lot of investment, and that money has to come from somewhere.
the sustainable investment plan is not the first investment plan we have discussed in this house.
it is no use if a lot of projects end up with the label 'sustainable investment' so that the commission can meet its target, but we have not done more.
turning a climate emergency into climate neutrality won’t be easy, but with the right tools it can just be made possible.
mr president i welcome the decision of the european council in december to make the eu climate neutral by 2050. however, it is necessary to be prepared that this transition will entail significant economic and social changes with high costs and investment requirements.
the transition fund should be set up in a fair manner so as not to increase energy and food prices as a result.
wherever the world is suffering from the ravages of climate change, we can all be affected, including europeans.
it is our responsibility to prevent and preserve the biodiversity of our planet.
i welcome the proposals you have made so far to our citizens and businesses in the transition towards sustainable societies, but i believe that a truly equitable transition should not help the big polluters.
the devil is in the details, and we will be watching closely to see that every decision the commission has taken puts the environment, climate and justice first.
– madam president, it is more apparent than ever that our greatest challenges, from the rise of antimicrobial resistance and the spread of communicable disease to the climate crisis, are collective ones.
all the lessons of the virus show us that we need a stronger, more united europe, able to protect its citizens from environmental, health and economic damage.
we're putting a lot of energy into defeating this virus.
your programme is full of talk about digitisation and climate change.
payments are linked to objectives such as environment, climate and animal welfare.
it is clear that some countries cannot, for historical, geographical and economic reasons, achieve the national climate targets set at union level without major economic problems, without hampering the development of their industry.
we expect the german presidency to make a realistic assessment of the climate targets and to initiate a pragmatic strategy to achieve them.
the commission will continue to work on the implementation of the new environmental legislation.
there was the energy revolution and "we can do this".
many have stressed the importance of fairness, sustainability and solidarity.
– madam president, i would say to the commissioner that it is our right to have a non—toxic environment, but we are sadly miles away from that.
still, pollinators, one of the most essential links in our ecosystem, are dying because of the dangerous pesticides we are spraying on our fields.
i am glad that the commissioner has promised us a zero—pollution ambition for a toxic—free environment.
with this resolution, the european parliament is giving the commission some homework: to ensure that the chemical strategy for sustainability lives up to our expectations.
we have no time to waste.
this strategy will be delivered as the very first step towards a zero—pollution ambition for a toxic-free environment, with the action plan to follow in 2021. it will also complement other objectives under the green deal, notably to protect biodiversity and to move towards climate neutrality – at the end of the day, a huge contribution to a circular economy.
i support this resolution because we need to have an eu strategy to promote sustainability in chemicals, to review legislation that is essential to set the direction for innovation in the transition to a safe and sustainable chemicals sector, and to properly scale up long-term investments in a toxic-free environment.
the new strategy should be consistent with and complementary to the other policy objectives of the green deal, in particular the objectives of the climate law, the circular economy action plan, the new industrial strategy for europe and the european cancer plan, as well as the new situation of the european economy following the covid-19 pandemic.
also, to promote sustainability in the field, we need to support the involvement of all stakeholders so that no one is left behind.
it would also be essential to increase effective access of roma to: quality, mainstream, inclusive education; quality and sustainable employment; quality health care; and adequate desegregated housing and essential services.
the key areas of expertise, housing, health, education, work, digitisation, green energy, agriculture, subsidiarity and the creation of cooperation between genuine roma organisations, the priority of local initiatives, were an integral part of our proposals at the time.
there is a clear majority in this house for more solidarity, for more transparency, for more sustainability, for more europe.
and what about our hopes for a more sustainable cap if the planned subsidy for rural development is cut in half?
the criteria that you have set out – judicial independence, press freedom, institutional checks and balances, corruption – i can tell you exactly where hungary stands on this subject and on this issue and you can save your time and energy.
the next item is the debate on the report of jytte guteland on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on establishing a framework for achieving climate neutrality and amending regulation (eu) 2018/1999 (the european climate regulation) (com ((2020) 0080 - c9-0077/2020 - 2020/0036 ((cod)) (a9-0162/2020).
madam president, climate change and environmental damage are a serious threat to europe and the world.
that's why it's important to be ambitious and make europe the world's first climate-neutral continent.
the adoption of the eu climate regulation ahead of us can confirm that not only individual member states but the eu itself is taking action to protect our world in the fight against climate change.
we insist that the costs are not paid by the families, but by the climate destroyers.
rising food and energy prices must be avoided.
in order to achieve climate neutrality, all sectors of the economy need to take action.
however, it is also important that we implement eu climate action at national level and that we can put targeted actions into a workable framework.
mr president we cannot stand by and watch our environment being destroyed.
every day we waste is bringing us closer to climate catastrophe.
for example, we must insist on reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 65 percent in ten years.
if we let this happen, we're not going to achieve total climate neutrality by 2050. but i want to be able to look people in the eye 20 years from now and proudly say that we've not only tried, but we've actually made real progress on climate change.
let's make a bold and green climate bill.
and i think we need to create an ai ecosystem that serves the interests of people, that puts people at the center.
i agree with the rapporteur that deforestation does have a number of negative environmental, economic and social impacts, in particular on climate, biodiversity and poverty.
i believe it is important that the eu supports initiatives that have already proven their worth: the global alliance on climate change, for example, provides a framework to promote dialogue with developing countries on deforestation and follow-up measures to help continue efforts to address the problem of deforestation.
parliament wanted a more ambitious budget, a budget that was in line with the values of the european union, starting with respect for the rule of law, and a budget that was more forward-looking, starting with the ecological and solidarity-based transition.
on the contrary, it is the logic of dialogue, the logic of compromise, the logic of collective intelligence that has enabled us to give the european union an instrument, not the only one, but a crucial instrument to address the social, environmental, democratic, economic and health challenges we face.
additional resources will be available for all those things that are crucial – for future jobs, future growth, future competitiveness and also, certainly for the fight against climate change.
that is why we need a strong and ambitious multiannual budget to support public health, a sustainable economic recovery, support employment and social and regional cohesion.
it is right that there should be a financial transaction tax or a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders which will at the same time help to give our small and mediumsized enterprises a competitive edge.
finally, it is worth mentioning the climate and biodiversity spending targets – we in my group are proud that we also succeeded on that.
no more taxes for citizens, as some would have you believe, but the chance to finally put our tax system back on the right track, with the web tax, with the financial transaction tax, with the carbon border tax.
caroline roose has requested to be heard, pursuant to rule 159 (4) of the rules of procedure, on the eu-seychelles reports on the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and its implementation (protocol (2020-2026).
the next item is the debate on the report by mr cristian-silviu buşoi on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a programme of action of the union in the field of health for the period 2021-2027 (the 'eu programme for health') (com ((2020) 0405 - c9-0152/2020 - 2020/0102 ((cod)) (a9-0196/2020).
it should not be overlooked that the extension of the product life cycle must contribute to the development of an economic model based on a balance between consumer and industrial needs and environmental protection requirements.
however, support for the repair sector could create jobs, significantly reduce waste generation and pollution, significantly improve consumer purchasing power and provide a commercial advantage for european businesses.
while the first industrial revolution introduced the world to the phenomenon of waste, the fourth has the potential to eliminate it, or at least to reduce it substantially.
the union should therefore support circular business models, as what is waste in one industry may become raw material in another.
it is possible that a company's waste, by-products, cannot be rebuilt in its own value chain, but can be taken up by companies in other industries with minimal changes.
the pandemic has increased consumer demand for transparency, sustainability and convenience.
we want eu trade policy and investment policy to effectively support a quick and sustainable economic recovery to create opportunities for european businesses and maintain the stability and predictability they need to facilitate green and digital transitions, and to ensure that trade is responsible, fair and sustainable in line with our eu values.
if we stick to the common agricultural policy, we can see that farmers in the european union will have to face new environmental requirements, while imports from non-eu countries will continue under old trade agreements, where quality standards are not always guaranteed and respected.
for us, a stable and secure environment in the eastern mediterranean and the development of a cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship among all partners in the region, bilaterally and multilaterally, are in our strategic interests.
madam president, we have said it so many times in this chamber and i will say it again: we have a chance for a historic budget, a budget that demonstrates vision, courage and solidarity, that reforms our own resources after five decades, and that is ready to take on the climate crisis.
furthermore, water-related problems are perhaps one of the greatest threats to economic and sustainable development.
it is very important to recognise that water is essential for the citizens of the union and that in the light of climate change and environmental degradation, the management of water pollution, the reduction of freshwater biodiversity loss and the strengthening of resilience to the effects of climate change are more relevant than ever, and access to adequate quality drinking water is of paramount importance in reducing risks to public health.
with the green light for the multiannual budget, the next generation eu and the rule of law regulation, we can build the recovery of economies from new foundations that are more environmentally and socially sustainable.
the eu has displayed a strong commitment to continue its common work with egypt in areas of crucial importance for the egyptian people such as environment, energy and water management.