i think we have to acknowledge the fact that the devastating bushfires raging across australia are directly connected with the lack of action and the climate denial of the australian conservative government.
an effective climate policy is a disruptive policy.
it is therefore important to strive for climate change mitigation while also ensuring well-organised protection and rescue.
it is also important that we do not become isolated in this effort to combat climate change, and that we do not, for example, close down livestock farms in europe and import beef from australia and brazil.
let's not waste any more time, let's send the firefighters from the union to australia to help.
we need to mitigate the effects of climate change everywhere and if we want to lead on climate action, we need to change our way of life, our management of resources and our relationship with nature and all the living things on this planet, and above all, we need to take responsibility and increase our collective ambitions.
and for the critics: it should be obvious, of course, that climate change has something to do with this.
we need to make a commitment to the paris climate agreement.
madam president, climate change does not create bush fires, but it can and does make them drastically worse.
when prime minister scott morrison was challenged on his country’s dismal performance in dealing with climate change, he said: ‘we don’t want job-destroying, economy-destroying, economy-wrecking targets and goals’.
if we are serious about gender equality here in the european union, if we are serious, for example, about the sustainable development goals (sdgs), if we are serious about the european social pillar, then it is essential that we tackle the gender pay gap.
we shouldn’t have homelessness in 2020.
mr president, almost exactly a year ago today, a dam of toxic waste from a mining company, vale, collapsed in brumadinho, killing 272 citizens in brazil.
the first two weeks of this new year have reminded us that the european union’s security environment is today more volatile, more unpredictable, more complex and more ambiguous than at any time since the end of the cold war.
the realism of the observation is to emphasise the profound deterioration of our security environment.
at the beginning of this mandate, there is a lot of talk in the house about the climate emergency, the environmental emergency and the social emergency, and it seems to me that it is also urgent to consider our strategic stance and to work on it in a credible way.
take, for example, climate change.
the council asked me at the last meeting of the european council to develop a strong climate diplomacy in order to ensure that our climate ambitions can be shared in partnership with other states in the world, because if not, our efforts will be completely useless.
we must engage with others in order to ensure that they are on board in our climate action in order for it to be really successful.
in particular, without energy security, for example, we are vulnerable to threats and blackmail.
but energy requires protection and security from military threats and terrorist attacks.
the eu, through the glass agreement for europe, will enable every member state to transition to a low-carbon society.
too many red lines are crossed, it completely undermines the fight for real emergency level action on both the climate and inequalities, it completely ignores mercosur, it praises gas as a transition fuel – which is madness, it refuses to call for a new common agricultural policy (cap) proposal and this is the cap from the green deal.
madam president, while we in the european union are better than a lot of the world’s economies in terms of dealing with climate issues, it doesn’t mean that we are good enough.
for me, it represents the fact – and some of the votes on the amendments show – that we talk the talk but aren’t prepared to tackle the vested interests who are responsible for the greater scale of emissions.
the rejection of the amendment which pinpointed the top 100 companies responsible for 71% of the global emissions; the fact that we celebrate a so—called just transition fund, but spend multiples of that amount on a common agricultural policy (cap) programme which subsidises bad environmental practice; the fact that we facilitate natural gas, the emissions from which are now outweighing the benefits of reduction in coal, and we spend billions on the military and arms industry, which is developing a very serious impact on our carbon footprint.
we are not only in a climate emergency, we are also in a biodiversity emergency.
without the protection and restoration of biodiversity, there is no future for humans.
mr president, the irish national parks and wildlife service report submitted to the un convention on biological diversity last year, also blames the pollinator decline on the obsession with intensive agriculture, the loss of hedgerows, and monocultures, including commercial forests made up of fast-growing coniferous species of low biodiversity value.
this part of the report, in fact, accurately describes irish government policy and its complete disregard for biodiversity.
the irish government, and indeed the eu, still rewards intensive farming to the detriment of high-value nature farms and the irish government’s obsession with, and over-dependence on, sitka spruce violates the basic principles of biodiversity.
we need legally binding biodiversity targets at global an eu level and sufficient funding for these under the next eu long-term budget.
mr president, biodiversity is the concept that underpins the essential values of human life.
climate change, or global warming in general, is the destructive element to it.
the european green deal aims to be an instrument and mechanism to encourage member states, among other things, to compete for the conservation of biodiversity.
agriculture must be seen as a partner in this battle to preserve biodiversity.
farmers must also be financially supported to make their farming practices compliant with environmental objectives.
last but not least, research and innovation in biodiversity conservation and restoration must be adequately supported.
mr president, the cop meeting in china is biodiversity’s paris agreement moment.
people have finally realised the urgency of the climate crisis, but have come to also understand that climate, and the biodiversity crisis are intertwined.
as an ecological educator, i have always liked explaining by example.
if we don’t protect biodiversity, the time will come when children won’t know what it is to pick a wild flower, and we’ll only know butterflies and ladybirds in picture books.
probably the eu’s most ambitious environmental policy ever, but we know not enough is being done in regards to reforming the way we farm and fish in europe.
there is a lot we can do to help them, especially laws on the teifigh seas, said clare daly, and laws on climate change, and the dangers of the christian world; but there is a problem and we should be able to do more in the future.
the inland waterway industry in the netherlands, but certainly in europe, is keen to make the move to sustainable fuels.
i am quite certain that the revision of the ten-t directive and the alternative fuels directive will allow all those hardworking inland vessel owners, who are indispensable to us, to do what they so dearly want, namely to leave a sustainable europe to the next generation.
and my question to you, commissioner, is this: do you agree that hydrogen, lng or those other possible future alternative fuels are the ones that offer opportunities for our inland waterway sector to become more sustainable and thus to gain ground?
if our transport systems work for children, if they work for older people, then we’re on the right road to sustainability.
but we do have to move away from a car-centric vision of transport and mobility, and i want you, commissioner, to place a clear focus on active travel and safer, low—carbon mobility solutions.
an eu strategy must not repeat the mistakes of the past – endless motorway and airport expansions and subsidies for pollution industries – so let’s offer a positive vision for how people can move around.
erasmus is for students, climate policy for fair emission reductions, roaming for mobility, parental leave for children and families, workers' rights for workers' lives, trade policy for wealth and job creation and building a fair world.
but now is the time to build new relationships in that new context, and i hope that those negotiations will be approached in a way that will allow us to reach a deal, and that the uk will not diverge from the very standards that they played a key part in putting into place, whether it’s about food safety, the environment and so on.
we have to accept at this stage that, in terms of environmental damage, the amount of cables and chargers littered across homes throughout the world is simply a scandalous idea at this particular juncture and we surely have the capacity, in terms of innovation technology, to ensure that we can develop a charger and a cable that is uniform and that can do what this particular motion and resolution sets out to do.
there is the environmental issue, but above all the personnel issue: boxes and boxes at home and the fact that they are being used.
around 50 million tonnes of e-waste is generated worldwide, with europe being the second largest producer with a total of 12.3 million tonnes.
the european green deal seeks to reduce pollution through various initiatives, one of which is the single charger.
the commission will also consider the possibility of a new charging scheme for electricity from renewable sources.
the single charger is not only a solution to environmental issues, but it is also a solution to reduce costs for consumers while protecting their rights and freedom of choice.
by introducing a single charger, we would not only protect consumers, but also the world we live in by promoting environmental awareness.
madam president, almost 15 million tonnes of e-waste are generated globally every year, at an average of more than 6 kilogrammes per person.
total e—waste generation in europe in 2016 stood at over 12 million tonnes, correspondent to an average of over 16 kilogrammes per person – so rationally three times the world average.
the huge variety of chargers on the market for mobile phones and other electronic devices drives consumers crazy, but has also contributed massively to e-waste.
it’s a crazy situation, given that we’re facing climate breakdown.
green, sustainable, generously funded and from national budgets investments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
i am well aware, commissioner, that the commission has recently discovered its ecological vocation, but here we do not need recycling, only the final waste bin.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in an economic environment that is very different from that of a decade ago, with persistently low interest rates and production below potential, the time has finally come to rethink the prevailing approach to the system of budgetary constraints.
in short, the commission has also concluded that it is important to rethink the current budgetary rules, to give more room for investment to the member states, to combat unemployment and climate change, by introducing a golden rule for the disinvestment we are calling for, especially green investment, and possibly also green bonds.
there are energy costs.
they employ more people, they generally pay more taxes – or certainly they do in ireland – and the environment that they have to work in is incredibly hostile, particularly when we compare it to the manner in which foreign direct investment and multinationals are treated, and indeed the supports given to the agricultural sector.
i would like to echo the points made that one man’s bureaucracy is another man’s regulation, and while we do not support bureaucracy in any way, regulation and good standards are important in terms of employment, in terms of environmental protection.
as regards the future fifth list, i would like the guidelines for transatlantic energy infrastructure to be amended so that in future the european parliament can also select projects from the list.
the green deal can only work if we ensure a stable and affordable energy supply, and that requires energy infrastructure.
and energy infrastructure is bound to include the projects on your fourth pci list.
the projects of common interest list of energy infrastructure projects contains 55 fossil fuel projects.
the recent artelys report on gas supply security in the eu, commissioned by the european climate foundation, acknowledges the role of existing gas infrastructure in protecting the eu’s energy security, and the report says the new gas projects on the pci list are not necessary.
gas is not a transition fuel and its total greenhouse gas emissions surpass those of coal.
we should acknowledge, as well, that the pci process is legally unsafe and is leaving itself open for legal challenge in the member states due to the reckless behaviour of the director—general for energy in compiling a list of projects without taking on board the climate impacts.
mr president, we declared a climate emergency; now the hard work begins to deliver on the paris agreement and increase our ambition to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030. we’re not going to do this by building terminals for importing fracked gas.
so let’s power-up offshore wind, invest in energy efficiency and retrofit every home in europe over the next 30 years.
in my view, the proposal to reject the fourth list, which has come to light after several months of consultation and work, including legislative work, and which is a balanced list because it takes account of the climate objectives but also of the need to ensure energy security, is contrary to common sense.
most of you are in parliament for the first time and have not taken part in those negotiations, so let me remind you that this is among other things the 'clean energy' electricity package, in which we have committed member states to increase the number of cross-border connections and to switch to less-emissive than coal electricity sources.
we have already said that we must be able to make the energy transition, the appropriate transition from coal to gas and therefore to a less emission-intensive economy than before.
mr president, commissioner simson, security of supply, diversification of energy sources and energy at low prices for citizens and industry are the key axes on which we must move towards the transition to a zero-carbon economy in 2050. the transition process needs to be supported by projects of common interest, but also by the transition fuel of natural gas.
countries that determine the success of the green deal, such as germany, rely on the energy security offered by natural gas.
and today we have a list from the commission, a list of 29 billion for gas infrastructure projects, in the name of the environment.
it is well known that fossil gas contributes to a quarter of global warming.
it is utter lunacy when we’re supposed to be committing to being carbon neutral by 2050, and you simply can’t do it if we agree with this list.
a waste of eur 29 billion that could be used elsewhere, and scandalous projects like liquid natural gas, importing fracked gas into ireland.
and i genuinely believe that the pcis are legally unsafe, as there hasn’t been an assessment of the climate impacts.
it’s a long way away from an independent, environmentally-friendly energy policy.
brexit should be used as an opportunity to move towards a system in which capital is embedded in local economies, and not moving all over the planet at the expense of the environment and the people of the planet.
another immediate issue facing the negotiations is the july deadline for an agreement on reciprocal access to each other’s waters so we can allow our fishers to keep fishing in a sustainable manner, with minimised disruption.
such a timeline seems unrealistic for an area of such complexity, and the parliament’s pech committee will have to play an active role in ensuring we reach a deal that prevents significant damage being done to both eu and uk fishers and the sustainability priorities of the cfp.
madam president, commissioner, the policy of trade agreements that the union has been pursuing in recent years is proving to be one of the most effective tools for extending our social and environmental standards to the global world; it is also one of the most effective tools for promoting progress on human rights, which is very important in this agreement.
as long as the commission does not withdraw the yellow card from vietnam for this reason, the union must protect its production against the social and environmental dumping caused by these fishing practices.
why does the mechanism for the settlement of disputes between states not cover sustainable development?
why are there no longer any binding mechanisms with penalties when it comes to social and environmental rights?
we have a battle to fight here: let us make sustainable development a binding chapter, with sanctions.
the main problem with this type of agreement is that it guarantees enforceable rights to foreign investors and multinationals through the arbitration clause but doesn’t provide a mechanism for sanctions for noncompliance with social and environmental standards.
what are the chances of trading with someone on the far side of the planet being good for our environment?
we have stated from the very beginning that only a comprehensive and inclusive political solution, in line with united nations security council resolution 2254, will allow sustainable peace and stability in syria and the region.
as long as you pretend that there are moderate islamists, you will do nothing except this debate here, which is pure and simple guilt-washing and a waste of time.
i think there has been success there but now, in times when we have developed sustainable development goals, when we have the paris climate change agreement, it is time for a renewed focus on that relationship.
even the european court of auditors have said that it is a waste of money.
i want to say that i believe that closing the door does not get any closer to improving vietnam’s human rights record or indeed the policies and attitudes on climate change.
so we want to engage rather than isolate and, of course, we still have to be very cognisant in relation to human rights and climate change and there has to be ongoing monitoring.
at the same time, i am also aware that this agreement does a fairly good job of dealing with the provisions concerning labour standards, working conditions, the environment, but unfortunately this agreement did not provide a strong enough impetus for the vietnamese government to release at least some political prisoners.
we passed a resolution on 15 january, regarding the european green deal, saying we would only enter trade agreements with strong, binding, enforceable agreements on sustainable development and the paris agreement.
i firmly believe that this trade exchange will have growing potential even while maintaining environmental standards, and i also hope that the protection of investments, the protection of the country of origin will be really respected.
the scant protections the eu still has in place are routinely undermined in the name of free trade, and the climate, our health and our indigenous industries always suffer.
as the commission is a revolving-door catastrophe, we see the powers of the corporate sector all over these deals, again and again, with a scant look in for those looking to protect workers’ rights and stop this being used as a back door to a further race to the bottom that would devour the planet and ensure that we see climate system breakdown in our lifetime.
this system of unfettered capitalism is locking us into the corrosion of environmental protections and public health standards, and the attached system of globalised trade is sending carbon emissions skyrocketing as we ferry the cheapest (meaning the most exploitative) goods around the planet in order that corporations make buckets of money.
we do need to pay attention to climate change, to what’s happening in technology, to the economic empowerment of women, and to dealing with the pay gap and the pension gap.
we just declared a climate emergency.
we’ve seen an explosion in the numbers of people seeking a better life in the european union away from violence and poverty and away from climate disasters.
food is life, and it is vital that we in europe, and for the sake of our planet, transform our agriculture as soon as possible to make it climate and environmental sustainable.
the 'from the soil to the table' strategy for sustainable food is an important component of the green given, green deal.
food production is responsible for one-third of climate emissions.
our focus must be on sustainable agriculture.
it is about reducing greenhouse gases, but it is also about strengthening biodiversity, removing endocrine disruptors and fighting antibiotic resistance.
the 'from the soil to the table' strategy means healthy food that protects the environment!
mr president, the farm to fork strategy is a massive opportunity to take a genuinely holistic approach to dealing with the crises of biodiversity, climate change, health, inequality, farming and animal welfare.
however, there is zero reference to a sustainable price for the primary producer.
those small family farms are genuine grass-based farms, producing nutritious food in the best possible environmental ways, and they are the people who will take care of the environment for us.
that's why i've been talking so much about the budget, that in order to encourage, for example, farmers to reduce the use of pesticides, fertilisers, to better manage water, to do other pro-environmental things, you have to have the resources.
they have to be sufficient in the first pillar, because they will be eco-programmes, they have to be measures in the second pillar of action, various environmental actions.
they are particularly those smaller farms prepared for these environmental challenges, it will be easier for them to meet these conditions.
the 'farm to fork' strategy adds to farmers' concerns that they are bearing the brunt of the environmental transition.
farmers are part of the solution, not the problem, to the issue of climate change.
as part of this system, we are all jointly responsible for our environmental impact.
are we willing to pay a higher price for food that is produced in an environmentally friendly and sustainable way?
achieving the green deal goals of zero pollution and reduced use of chemical pesticides depends on our working together with farmers.
if 40% of cap is to be dedicated to climate action then the overall budget must be increased to ensure adequate and essential funding is still provided to small, family farms.
additionally, outdated farm vehicles contribute more to greenhouse gases and pollution, therefore the cap should provide financial aid to farms looking to update their machinery to more environmentally friendly models, which will lessen their carbon footprint.
the mercosur deal is not good for farmers or for the environment.
the production and transportation of such beef would be detrimental to meeting our carbon reduction targets.
in order to make agriculture healthy and sustainable, financial support to the sector is often necessary.
we condemn this violence and urge the guinean government to improve the management of the protests in order to create a safe environment for the protesters and to investigate the perpetrators of violence and murder.
of course they do, but they have no alternative, because their children are the victims of capitalism, of industrial agriculture, of climate change and drought.
at this point, with the current proposal, we're not going to win any of the global challenges: i am not talking about the green deal, or the fight against climate change, or the digitisation of our economies, or, even less, the migration challenge, and i am thinking of greece.
on sunday, the speeches call for more innovation, more border protection, more encounters, more climate action, and now a common defence policy.
how is biodiversity maintained in europe?
the problems we are trying to tackle in the union - climate change, the transformation of our production and energy model, the transformation of linear energy into circular energy, the immigration crises - require concerted action.
we remain committed to a sustainable transition with forward-looking innovation and competitiveness at its core.
it is now time to use these resources wisely in the transition to a circular, sustainable and fair economy.
the green deal is a strategy for sustainable growth.
although the risks of energy and electronics dependence have been addressed in the eu in recent years, food production, the pharmaceutical industry and now the supply of critical protective equipment have not been adequately assessed from the point of view of security of supply.
the joint resolution under debate in the european parliament demonstrates the broad consensus among the representatives of the peoples of the union for a strong, coordinated and united response to the pandemic, in health, economic, social and environmental terms.
amendment no 3: rejected amendment no 2: approved by the committee on the environment.
amendment no 4: rejected amendment no 1: approved by the committee on the environment.
amendment no 1: approved by the committee on the environment.
amendment no 2: approved by the committee on the environment.
the way we produce meat today, with thousands of genetically identical chickens and pigs stuck in massive factories – natural selection, an ecosystem service that provides real-time disease protection, is more, now, effectively a thing of the past.
furthermore, as regards the two council positions on 'establishing a framework to promote sustainable investment' and 'community statistics on migration and international protection', i would inform you that no proposal has been tabled to reject the council's positions and no amendments have been tabled under articles 67 and 68 of the regulation.
climate change mitigation is not a threat to farmers.
now we have the mercosur deal, which looks like the european commission, working in the interests of big business, helping them to find the cheapest raw materials with zero regard for the environment, climate system breakdown or indigenous people.
small farmers in ireland are not just worried about their livelihoods, they are also sick of the hypocrisy of the eu calling out for member states to reduce agri-emissions, while preparing to import more contaminated, environmentally destructive food and feed from south america.
the next big crisis being climate change – let’s cut the just transition fund.
the investeu programme, which supports climate-neutral investments, will be cut from €31.6 billion to €8.4 billion.
right now, it looks like the next generation of the eu means that the climate crisis, digitization, health, is for the next generation to worry about, not us.
there is acknowledgment that own resources must be expanded to fund the recovery package – the border adjustment tax, digital levy, the energy trading scheme and a financial transaction tax.
the committee on the environment has approved the text by a large majority, and i believe we will have similar results in the house.
the agenda includes the report by mr jutta paulus, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2015/757 to take due account of the global fuel consumption data collection system for ships (com (((2019) 0038 - c8-0043/2019 - 2019/0017 ((cod)) (a9-0144/2020).
– mr president, addressing shipping emissions remains a priority for the commission.
the eu system to monitor, report and verify these emissions is an important step to integrating emissions into eu climate policy; but it is just a first step, because we aim to come up with plans to reduce overall emissions in the maritime sector.
the key goal of our reporting system is to collect robust and verified co2 emissions data, to make those data publicly available, to stimulate the uptake of energy-efficient technologies and behaviours, and to inform our policymaking.
the report of the environment committee before you has received the commission’s full attention.
as you know, some proposed amendments go significantly beyond the commission’s proposal to align the european global data collection systems, namely the amendment to extend the european emissions trading system (ets) to maritime transport and the amendment for large shipping companies to reduce their annual average co2 emissions by at least 40% by 2030. while the european commission fully agrees with the european parliament that the shipping sector needs to duly contribute to the implementation of the paris agreement and must achieve the union-wide climate neutrality objective, we don’t consider the review of the eu reporting rules to be the appropriate vehicle to include shipping in the ets or to introduce operational component density requirements.
as you know, the commission has already announced, as part of the european green deal, its intention to extend the ets to maritime emissions, and the impact assessment is being prepared.
work on this is in full swing and the commission will come forward with the relevant legislative proposals to reduce the climate impact of shipping activities.
for these reasons – and as we are still awaiting the council’s position on these elements – the commission has to reserve its position on the amendments concerning the extension of the emissions trading system and the carbon density requirements for ships.
let me assure you that the commission remains committed to reducing emissions in the maritime sector.
let me also assure you that the upcoming 2030 climate target plan will show not only this commitment but also the ambition to get it done.
we will work hand in hand with this parliament on our pathway to climate neutrality in shipping and beyond.
– mr president, europe is going through this huge transition from our history as a coal and steel union to the climate neutrality union.
we know that the shipping sector also has a very negative impact on the climate and it risks to have even more so in the future.
it’s extremely worrying that it, in fact, has proceeded to raise its contribution to emissions between 50 or 250% to 2050, when we are supposed to be climate neutral.
we in the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats (s&d) refuse to stand passive and therefore we are very happy that in this monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) system is a good piece of legislation for reporting emissions, but now we finally have an emissions trading system (ets) proposed on the table and we believe this will be very important to take this sector under its, rightly, demand to contribute.
we also demand that every ship will reduce its emissions by at least 40% by the year 2030. it should not be free to destroy the future – not the climate, not the environment – and we know that the environment is also hit by this sector today; biodiversity, air quality, we need to do something about that.
– madam president, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) showed real ambition in voting for a radical expansion of the scope of the commission’s proposal.
we are proposing to include shipping in the eu emissions trading system (ets), without further delay with this regulation.
market-based solutions for the climate crisis, such as ets, have generally failed.
however, in this instance we are proposing to frame shipping’s inclusion in the ets with a binding regulatory target of 40% emission reductions per transport work by 2030. the rapporteur’s report is mainly concerned with emissions efficiency.
shipping emissions are directly related to global trade and consumption.
therefore, in order to reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport, in addition to emissions per transport work, the eu must promote and pursue a global de-growth strategy rather than the new growth strategy proposed in the european green deal.
the key is to boost sustainable economic growth and competitiveness.
this year was supposed to be a big year for climate policy in the european union.
despite the time and energy consumed by the corona crisis, the european union must remain committed to being climate neutral by 2050. i support the commission's proposal to tighten the 2030 emission reduction target to at least 55% to ensure this.
there's no more time to waste.
in accordance with rule 59 (4) of our rules of procedure, i ask that the dossier be returned to the committee on the environment so that we can begin negotiations with the council and the commission.
– madam president, today, president von der leyen called for european buildings to become less wasteful, less expensive and more sustainable.
as rapporteur for this report, maximising the energy efficiency of the european building stock, i know we can do this.
this is a good news story – we can create jobs, tackle energy poverty, improve air quality and reduce emissions in these extraordinary times.
it tackles the health crisis, the economic crisis and the climate crisis.
35° of heat is not normal and we know that 40% of emissions that cause this come from buildings.
with the right investment, buildings can reduce emissions rather than raise them.
the report says we must fight energy poverty by working with neighbourhoods and communities to ensure healthy and safe living conditions and ensure affordability.
we must raise national targets and revise the energy efficiency directives and the energy performance of buildings directives and binding minimum energy performance standards are required.
let’s lift people out of energy poverty and give them the buildings and the homes that they deserve.
madam president, setting a 55% net target for 2030 is climate change denial.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has said that in the gap between 1.5 and 2 degrees, hundreds of millions of lives are at stake.
to avoid climate breakdown, we have to cut world emissions at least in half by 2030, and get to zero by 2050. but this is a global average target.
given their greater responsibility for historic emissions, the better—off nations – like in europe – must do it a lot faster.
setting a climate neutrality target for 2050 is also a climate change denial.
climate neutrality is not a decarbonising strategy.
we need real zero carbon emissions by 2040 and we cannot rely on negative emissions technologies that might never even exist.
i have to say, madam president, environment, economy, jobs: the path to climate neutrality offers us a great opportunity to use european know-how to deliver innovation to global markets.
with a 55% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030, we are putting people and businesses in extreme difficulty.
we must take them on board, see climate action as an opportunity, and approach it with a positive spirit.
but today, those who say that we cannot combine climate investments with development aid are sinning against the future of africa, and are partly responsible for economic migration.
the positive view of climate protection is one of market economy, not prohibitions and quotas.
arguing and taking away that's democracy in action, even in climate protection.
madam president, the climate law is the main reason why my somewhat reluctant move into politics was actually the right move.
we have to slash greenhouse gas emissions within a timeframe that gives us some hope of avoiding a total wipe—out of life on our planet.
we must set a truly ambitious target that will create the change we need by 2030. the implementation of the paris agreement is essential to achieving the sustainable development goals by 2030. no paris, no sdgs.
we must have official, international, legally—binding commitments that see every single decision we make as individuals and as nations benchmarked against the goal of climate neutrality.
iran is the most monitored country in the world by the international atomic energy agency, with now almost 400 inspections per year.
but it's also a country plagued by poverty, rampant corruption, climate change.
my political group has reservations about the high level of spending on environmental and climate objectives, but the polish delegation will vote for this level, because it is a solution that benefits smaller farms, and these are the vast majority in our country.
we are convinced that excluding these farms from the eligibility criteria will not jeopardise environmental ambitions and will be an important step towards simplifying the cap, which european agriculture expects.
in conclusion, particularly in the current turbulent times for the cap, with brexit first and the coronavirus pandemic second, we believe that a coordinated approach is needed to maintain sustainable agriculture and food security in the union, and the reformed cap will serve this purpose.
we were trying to make an influence on the decision-making that affects a lot of the items: we wanted to help protect family farms; we wanted to help farmers to move away from pesticides and chemicals; we wanted farmers to be sustainable and to produce cleaner food; we wanted to protect biodiversity; we wanted the cap money to go to the farmers that needed it most, and to stop the 80% going to the 20% that don’t need it.
lots of nice talk about farm to fork, biodiversity strategy, the green deal - but they’ve all been thrown to the wind.
the recent european court of auditors report clearly concluded that declining biodiversity on farmland is a major threat to both the environment and to farming itself.
but we can’t let this crisis go to waste.
the volkswagen emissions fraud left many of the autonomies in a position where compensation should have been claimed directly from the volkswagen group.
volkswagen wasn't even the only car manufacturer to tamper with car emissions.
in addition, as i mentioned yesterday, we will also continue our actions to change business behaviour through the sustainable governance initiative that the commission will present next year.
particular attention should be paid to ensuring that the new provisions allow for collective redress in cases of infringements in areas such as data protection, financial services, travel and tourism, energy, telecommunications, environment and health, air and rail passenger rights, in addition to the general consumer laws.
ensuring an enabling a supportive environment for these actors is one of the focal points of our upcoming strategy to strengthen the application of the charter of fundamental rights in the eu.
we need a more ambitious budget to address public health problems and the impact of the pandemic, to have a stronger economic recovery, to strengthen the welfare state, to implement more ambitious targets on tackling the climate crisis and the digital transition.
a budget that helps competitiveness, productivity, environmental goals.
this dimension must also be taken into account when we talk about minority rights, because in a climate of fear and stigma, the unhindered exercise of cultural and civil rights is hardly conceivable.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the year of rail transport will of course promote rail as a sustainable, innovative and safe mode of transport that can guarantee essential services even in unexpected crises.
but i think this file has been popular across all of the political groups, because there is an understanding of the potential of rail to seriously have an impact on the disruption of the flow of carbon into the atmosphere and to be a real positive contributor towards our task in dealing with climate change.
if we truly are going to have a year of rail and support rail, then we have to examine the fact that we are presently subsidising, for example, regional airports, some of which are unprofitable, operated by low cost carriers and are amongst the biggest carbon emitters in europe.
what we need to do now is to ensure that, over the next two years, while we’re going through this transitional arrangement, we use creativity and imagination to ensure that the next common agricultural policy (cap) proposals give farmers the opportunity to farm in a way that is compatible with the environment and, equally, that they have a future in family farms across europe.
we need to ensure that we have environmental ambitions that are compatible with farmers and farming compatible with environmental ambitions.
so, commissioner, i urge us to use this transition period to ensure that we set farming into the future compatible with the environment and ensuring that we have a strong agricultural base for years to come to support our family farms.
the recent terrorist attacks, ladies and gentlemen, have made it alarmingly clear that the online environment plays a very central role in providing a platform and a voice to violent extremism and terrorism.
- and a safe ecosystem in which immediate or ongoing initiatives are envisaged: those relating to the prosecution of child sexual abuse, drugs and, of course, the trafficking of firearms.
this is particularly true in relation to employment standards, social and environmental rights and governance arrangements.
the eec was very clear on this, as were the environmental organizations and the farmers' organizations.