but not only that, the other items on the agenda are no less important: support for rural areas, agriculture, increasing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting sustainable tourism and strengthening macro-regional cooperation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a trillion for the next ten years: this is the commission's investment plan to bring europe to climate neutrality by 2050. we know the budget for this investment plan, one trillion, but it is not yet clear where the resources will come from to reach that figure.
does the commission envisage the possibility of relaxing state aid rules in order to achieve the objective of climate neutrality?
it is called the just energy transition fund.
ankara is taking over the keys to the southern migration corridor, with the goodwill of italy, which has very important economic, energy and strategic interests in libya.
the right to safe, efficient and sustainable transport is fundamental and the european union must do everything possible to guarantee it at affordable prices that allow the free movement of people and goods.
so let us not follow the false idols of environmental populism, but let us take the path to environmental protection through policies based on evidence and the scientific method.
the commission cannot fail to discuss with the applicants the same commitments on the environment and combating climate change as those made by the member states.
our small and mediumsized enterprises do not need more regulation, but a reduction in administrative burdens, financial instruments to support their competitiveness and adequate trade defence measures against social and environmental dumping.
more tax relief is needed on socio-environmental investments to adapt its structures.
a consistent response to the new needs of the business system is needed to ensure that businesses operate in a stable regulatory and economic environment, addressing the factors that hamper growth and innovation, reducing red tape and improving efficiency.
that is why we in the committee on fisheries have asked the european commission to remain vigilant and vigilant to ensure that vietnam continues the efforts already undertaken and at the same time to use all the means at its disposal, including the red card in case vietnam does not comply with the conditions for sustainable development agreed with the european union.
hypocrisy because the green new deal which you want to impose on our companies and which will cost them a great deal of money, obviously cannot be imposed on vietnam and vietnam will be careful not to go in that direction, however, with standards which you perhaps intend to ask britain to respect, and instead you have no problem, in your failed trade policy, to make agreements with countries which are very far from any level of social and environmental protection.
because 'again' the council wants to cut the financial budget for the new multiannual framework, unlike the european parliament which is asking for more money to reduce inequalities, to invest in tackling the climate crisis, to keep cohesion policy and to get ahead with investments in innovation.
mr president, i would like to wholeheartedly thank ms lagarde, and congratulate the european central bank (ecb) and its new leadership for, may i say, finally taking the climate and environmental risks as economic risks, as financial stability risks and, hopefully, also as systemic risks to be judged by the systemic risk board in the future.
i hope that will be reflected in all of the ecb’s market operation that these substantial amount of financial flows we have to use either against or for the environment.
also, i’m glad to hear that the commission is moving rapidly with the sustainable finance package and a plea for both actors: please ensure that indicators, the metering system and the lifecycle analyses there is harmonised and, overall, used in the same methodology in different institutions so that we duly know what we are doing.
madame lagarde, you mentioned many of those: climate change, digitalisation... i would also add economic inequalities, especially in certain areas.
to fulfil its mandate of delivering price stability, the ecb will better understand how the changing climate, technological innovation and economic inequalities will affect the behaviour of households, firms and financial institutions.
with brexit, we are called upon to pursue a foreign policy action that is both new and forward-looking, in a 21st century geopolitics, which goes from the protection of european security, the great issue of immigration, energy, climate change, 5g to european investment in those countries.
yes, let the girls go to school - especially the girls, for at least ten years - so that they can help their country; healthcare for all, good work - and that's more than employability - good work to build the countries, to develop sustainable societies, in europe as well as in africa.
why not agree now on a common approach to climate change?
what africa and europe need is a lasting relationship based on human rights, social development and environmental sustainability.
the european union needs to continue to play its role as a multilateral power promoting partnerships among equals in order to position itself successfully in the changing geopolitical environment.
to be aligned with the achievement of the sustainable development goals in all their dimensions.
the fight against climate change and clean energy must be at the heart of our new relationship with the african continent.
in the last century, africa has contributed only 2 percent of global warming emissions.
the effects of climate change are real, and it is precisely in africa that the greatest number of people die as a result of droughts and floods.
so, adaptation, resilience, clean energy, renewable energy have to occupy a central element in our new relationship.
i have heard rumours of a budget that would reduce inequality, pollution, unemployment - a long and expensive wish list.
but those who have the capacity to administer the public good start thinking about waste and inefficiency first.
the obligation to reduce food waste and to meet european standards, which is instead provided for in the green new deal, is also missing.
we also call for a reference to the single sustainable labelling, not the nutri-score aberration but a labelling which correctly indicates the nutritional aspects and the environmental and social impact of each product and which takes into account the importance of the farmer's work.
finally, we want to see more support for organic farming, which puts the farmer at the centre of the environmental clean-up process and highlights how organic farming can combat climate change, stimulates demand for organic products and supports farmers in joining the farm to fork.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has presented the strategy called 'from the field to the table', which aims to make the european agri-food system a global benchmark in terms of sustainability.
these objectives are: continue to ensure a high level of safety of agricultural products, production and marketing, ensure a fair income for farmers, safeguard biodiversity and ultimately reduce dependence on pesticides.
what action will be taken to combat social, wage and environmental dumping of agri-food products from third countries such as vietnam and cambodia?
a strategy that has as its sole pillar the idea of turning fishermen and farmers into a kind of climate watchdog, with controls and checks that remind us of a big green brother.
the right choice of sustainable agriculture weighs on the cost of production and consequently on the purchase price of products.
that is why, without adequate economic support, without a cap that protects small and mediumsized farmers against large companies, we risk only environmental demagogy and nothing more.
the covid-19 pandemic is a crisis we cannot afford to waste.
we europeans are making trade deals with vietnam, which has much lower environmental standards than the south american countries.
the need for a common response is strongly supported, but it must also be ensured that these investments are used in the most effective way to strengthen european competitiveness and sustainable growth.
we are considering, as was highlighted, the emission trading system; also the carbon adjustment mechanism, but also an own resource based on operations of enterprises in the european single market and the digital tax.
we need to focus more on innovation, education and the sustainable development of our societies while using the successful results of the cohesion and agricultural policies.
but that's not all, because in today's resolution on coronavirus you manage to include a number of things: the link between covid and climate change, references to the fact that ethnic minorities would be more affected, when instead everyone, especially the elderly, was affected, an inevitable shift to the lgbt world and contraception, which have nothing to do with the coronavirus, and finally an indecent praise of mes.
we cannot continue to allow turkey to threaten us, while you, mr borell, high representative of the european union, instead of conveying to ankara the climate in brussels and the need for turkey to refrain from any aggressive action, appear as a neutral mediator in greek-turkish relations.
– madam president, with this motion for a resolution, the european parliament calls on the commission to proceed with the chemicals strategy for sustainability.
our first priority is to upgrade the level of protection of the consumer and the environment.
that’s why we also have to increase the level of implementation of the existing eu legislation on chemicals, asking the member states to fully implement the current legislative framework in order to provide a safe and sustainable environment as well as a competitive european market.
i would like to conclude with the need for the chemicals strategy for sustainability to be aligned with the two main aspects of the green deal.
– madam president, today’s debate and the resolution you will adopt tomorrow on the upcoming chemical strategy for sustainability come very timely and i would like to thank you for the opportunity to reply today to the issues you raise in your oral question and to give you a brief update on where we are with this strategy.
the chemical strategy for sustainability is one of the key deliverables of the green deal and one of the priorities, of course, within my portfolio this year.
when we adopted the green deal last december we all agreed to ensure a toxic-free environment.
first, it should help to protect citizens and the environment better against hazardous chemicals and it had to encourage innovation for the development of safe and sustainable alternatives.
this twofold objective has guided our internal preparatory work from the very beginning and has also made it clear from the very start that to better combine health and environmental protection, and increase global competitiveness, all parties and stakeholders have to work closely together.
you highlight both the need to act towards a safe and sustainable use of chemicals, but also the essential role of the chemical sector in reaching the multiple targets of the green deal, such as the zero-pollution ambition, climate neutrality, energy transition, the promotion of energy efficiency and the circular economy.
let me now provide you with some more elements on our upcoming chemical strategy for sustainability.
the strategy is based and will build on a number of policy evaluations and previous initiatives linked to the eu chemicals legislation and in particular the second reach review from 2018, the fitness check of chemicals legislation from 2019, the communication on endocrine disrupters from 2018 and the communication on options to address the interface between chemical, product and waste legislation from 2018. to reach our main objective, the strategy will particularly focus on the following five elements.
first: strengthening legislation for higher health and environmental protection from hazardous chemicals.
we need to incentivise the development of safe and sustainable production and use of chemicals.
the transition to ‘safe and sustainable by design’ represents a major opportunity for the eu’s innovation and competitiveness.
at the same time, a strong and sustainable eu industry is an important asset for the eu to contribute to global sustainability.
we also need to support the recovery from the economic crisis, build resilience and ensure strategic autonomy in the supply of essential chemicals in europe, for instance for health applications or technologies critical to achieve climate neutrality, digital transition, clean and safe material cycles and zero pollution.
fourth: intensifying research and knowledge on the impacts of chemicals on health and the environment, but also ways to better process and share this data and information for regulatory use, but also for consumer information or industrial use in the supply chain.
once the final chemical strategy for sustainability has been adopted by the college, i will, of course, be happy to come back and present it to you and i already look forward to working very closely with you to implement it, because the work will, of course, not finish with the adoption of the strategy, quite the contrary.
madam president, in its communication on the green deal for europe, the commission announced its ambition for a 'zero pollution' environment free of toxic substances.
in this context, reducing exposure to hazardous chemicals is of course a major issue and the body of legislation regulating chemicals must be a bulwark for citizens and the environment against the major risk posed by some of these substances.
strong measures for health and the environment are needed and we must take responsibility for them.
what is sustainable chemistry?
it is necessary to adopt precise criteria to define it, otherwise sustainable chemistry will be just a concept that industries will use to 'greenwash' their activities, to the detriment of the health of citizens.
a more sustainable chemistry is not one that generates more and more income for the shareholders of the chemical industry, but one that fully integrates the objectives of public health and biodiversity protection.
this is achieved primarily through the reduction of hazards from chemicals, by replacing the most dangerous substances with safe alternatives, and through increased transparency of the authorisation process, which also takes into account the social and environmental costs, particularly for persistent chemicals.
madam president, commissioner, our resolution sets a course for you today: the course for the sustainable strategy for chemicals, which the commission will therefore present to you before the end of the year, with an objective which we obviously share, namely to strengthen the protection of the health of citizens and the environment, an ambitious objective: 71% of chemicals manufactured in the european union are classified as dangerous.
if we want concrete results for the environment, we cannot demonize a sector such as chemistry - an excellence at european and italian level and above all a sector already advanced in terms of sustainability - by imposing additional unsustainable burdens.
without pragmatism and balance, we risk only penalizing a strategic sector for the whole of europe, a sector which should instead be actively supported in its transition to even more sustainable production.
the european parliament is calling for nothing less than a paradigm shift in european chemicals policy for our health, a toxic-free environment and the sustainable restructuring of the chemical industry.
the european commission must pursue a zero-tolerance strategy towards toxic chemicals in the environment.
clean chemistry in europe can not only create a clean environment for people and nature, but also stabilise 1.2 million sustainable chemistry jobs.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
first: integrating sustainable forest management and the multifunctional role of forests based on environmental sustainability first and economic and social sustainability second.
thirdly, to take concrete action to stop both global deforestation and possible new privatisations at the expense of national parks and to encourage not only reforestation but also the sustainable management of forest resources.
we therefore believe that the cap can play a crucial role in sustainable and multifunctional management and that funding for forestry measures and the development of the bioeconomy should be increased in rural areas.
we in the five star movement believe that biomass must be eliminated from european and national energy strategies, as must hunting, which can no longer be considered a source of income or a recipient of european funds.
the virtuous role models are the foundation for building a european ecological framework.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of climate change, of the need to protect nature, of the urgency of protecting the environment.
because your policies risk bleeding economies to death in the face of results that, frankly, are negligible in terms of reducing emissions.
in short, you have in mind sustainable development - so defined - which is only for european countries, because you are completely silent with asian countries, such as india and china, with whom you continue to conclude trade agreements without saying anything, and i say nothing, about the environment!
this is not about protecting the environment but is an environmental ideology made up by european bureaucrats.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has set the member states the objective of achieving net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 with the european climate law.
the objectives are clear, but nothing is said about the social and economic costs: we think about the inevitable loss of competitiveness of our companies compared to countries like china, india and the united states, which do not share the climate goal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a sustainable manner.
the energy transition requires gradual progress, sharing and substantial financial support, which our companies do not have at present.
the fight against climate change must be fought by safeguarding our businesses and above all by remembering to save them from bankruptcy.
let's not give banks the right to cheat any more than we gave the carbon economy the right to pollute.
among them are many young health workers full of energy and passion: they are our future, and we need to invest in them to effectively tackle this new pandemic season, avoiding the excessive workloads and stresses of the first wave.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on the reform of the common agricultural policy and we can make history, because nothing like agriculture can restart europe torn apart by covid, create development and jobs, improve the environment and promote our national excellence.
unfortunately, parliament should dare more, and win the backing of some member states which are always conservative in the council when it comes to greening, stability, sustainability and innovation.
we need more ambition on intensive farming and animal welfare, including organic and precision farming; accelerate digitization to reduce emissions, increase product quality and work towards an honest labeling system that promotes all this, abandoning the disastrous nutri-score and respecting made in, made in italy in particular.
i am therefore pleased with the extension of the planting right for vines and the inclusion of hemp in the standard markets, but i hope that the standard will reach 0.5 per cent and that all the member states, starting with italy, will be obliged by european regulations to break the cultural prejudice against this sector, which will bring enormous environmental, social, economic and cultural benefits, including against the mafias.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these months of debate on the cap i have heard talk of a 'new cap', but if the new cap that is being put forward consists of regionalisation, of allowing member states to manage funds as they wish in the face of various social and environmental objectives, of further enriching those who already own large estates, or of standing idly by in defence of our agri-food excellence and including the nutri-score, i sincerely believe that millions of citizens and farmers would do without it.
we want the funds to reach those who really live off agriculture, with internal convergence redistributing wealth to small and very small producers and external convergence based on mandatory capping and strict compliance with environmental and labour standards, precisely in order to break up the monopolies that create distortions in the internal market.
a real link between the cap and the farm2fork and biodiversity strategies is essential, but with clear, ambitious and realistic objectives to gradually abandon all forms of intensive exploitation and achieve food self-sufficiency, based on a new balance between man and the environment, for a nature to be preserved and left to future generations.
the fight for an environmental tax is a sacrosanct one, but it must strike the right balance between environmental standards and support for productivity and competitiveness.
i would remind you that there are already de facto sustainable productions, such as rice in italy, and i would stress that reducing the real meat production in europe by encouraging imports from third countries is likely to cause more damage to the environment and consumers, rather than alleviating them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the future agricultural policy, a part of the resources allocated will be conditional on respect for environmental sustainability, a mandatory conditionality which must not be at the expense of the productivity of our farms.
nevertheless, the european agenda continues to prioritise the fight against climate change, restricting all measures and interventions to unrealistic targets, instead of concentrating all efforts on avoiding the most likely and imminent economic collapse of the entire union.
what is needed today, therefore, is not new climate constraints on the european economy, but greater flexibility for investment and maximum support for member states' spending, through a strengthening of the ecb's mandate and the removal of the prohibition in article 123 tfeu.
europe will have to take care of these people and i do not think it is useful or wise to waste any more time.
ursula von der leyen touched on deforestation several times in her state of the union address, and i believe that the european parliament should not be afraid of an ambitious approach and should not change the opinion of the environment committee.
the european citizens do not want to be tarnished by this environmental crime.
ladies and gentlemen, we europeans have been working for many years to reduce our ecological footprint.
secondly, the environmental contribution of such a supply chain law will only be positive if we continue to trade with the regions concerned and help them become more sustainable.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of fire is a very good one.
the forestry sector in our member states, on the other hand, is a world leader in the sustainable and responsible management of forests.
deforestation and forest degradation negatively affect a number of the european union's global objectives in different policy areas, such as the protection of biodiversity, climate change, human rights, peace and security, good governance and the rule of law.
it's time to incorporate some positive environmental legislation and goals into our trade relations with the world.
your products are more than welcome here, but they must be produced fairly, with respect for the environment.
it is legislation in favour of european companies that meet environmental and human rights standards and have to compete in a market with the disadvantage of doing so with companies that do not.
cutting down trees to expand agricultural areas destroys biodiversity that is essential to the sustainability of crops.
i would like to communicate to you a message that has been sent today by major operators in this field, namely food producers such as mars and mondelez, who say that they, as major buyers of cocoa and other agricultural products, with longstanding engagement and continued efforts for sustainable cocoa, defend the report of ms burkhardt.
the problem must be tackled, not ignored, as long as it is done away with the usual environmental extremism which does not care about scientific data.
this is the result of some policy choices made long ago, and paradoxically also as a result of global warming.
a list of these taxes has already been drawn up: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of plastics is taken into account.
it’s there and it’s not taxing the ordinary citizen, it’s taxing google, amazon, the big tech companies in america, imported products from china, which are in fact bad for our environment, and so on.
the first is the system logic that was used for the first time, i would say revolutionary: the multiannual framework has been approved along with the own resources review and we can finally ask for heavy contributions from the multinational web companies, we can ask polluting companies to stop doing it and to pay taxes, if they happen to do it and they don't help us in the fight against climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a more sustainable european single market, with less consumption of resources, longer product life and greater consumer protection, is certainly a worthy and acceptable objective, but it must also take account of reality.
the plastic tax, for example, risks blowing up entire sectors already on the verge of collapse: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
it also encourages short supply chains in public procurement, but does not provide regulatory certainty to entrepreneurs on the environmental requirements needed to participate in tenders.
finally, europe is promoting low-impact mobility, but it should be aware that electric cars, and in general all the more environmentally friendly and sustainable products, are not within the reach of the majority of people, especially now that the fight for the indispensable is on.
there are many fine abstract words about sustainability in this room, but outside there are nations in distress, where companies, workers and families are worried about the immediate future, even before the 2050 climate goals.
if we really want to achieve a sustainable single market which respects the rights of citizens, we must promote it with coherent and workable initiatives, confronting not dogmas and utopias but the dramatic reality we are living today.
the next item is the report (a9-0197/2020) by mr carlo calenda, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the new industrial strategy for europe (ini) 2020/2076.
the need to promote and accelerate the dual digital and environmental transition is at the heart of this.
the goal of climate neutrality in 2050 remains our compass.
second point: a balanced review of competition and state aid rules to protect our strategic autonomy and global competitiveness and to enable support for investment in the environment and digitalisation, preserving and completing the single market.
fifthly, proposals to provide companies with the appropriate tools to contribute effectively to the reduction of co2 emissions in line with the climate law.
in this connection we must avoid at all costs that environmental transformation not adequately financed and protected from environmental dumping, including through the imposition of a carbon border tax, causes relocations to countries with less stringent emission standards, with a consequent increase in pollution and loss of jobs here.
on climate issues, on security issues, on democracy and human rights issues, on social issues, the youth of europe have understood that we will only be able to solve these issues through our continental power and not simply in the national and identity folds.
the network in fact already touched on these subjects at its most recent meetings in july and september, and also discussed practices and experience in adapting elections and democracy to the post-covid environment, which was warmly welcomed by member states and which will continue.
all of this takes place in a climate of growing opposition against the protection of lgbtiq rights and the global pandemic, which has compounded existing inequalities for lgbtiq people.
on 10 march, the european commission issued a communication entitled "a sme strategy for a sustainable and digital europe", and the next day - i must say with a little time-wasting - the world health organization declared covid a pandemic.
the aim was therefore to align the union's priorities with the changed socioeconomic environment.
green deal: the the environmental issue, we have to realize that sustainability has to be environmental, but also economic and social, because no one - and i said no one - has to lose their job.
so let us say once again no to green certifications and eco-taxes such as the plastic tax, which will certainly penalize our companies and at the same time open the doors of europe to chinese products with a higher environmental impact.
today, unfortunately, in many parts of italy and europe, drinking water is subject to a huge number of pollutants, and one case in particular, the veneto region, where pfas contamination has been one of the most serious health and environmental emergencies ever faced for years.
some 20 years after the water framework directive, we can say that this legislation is still relevant, but its implementation certainly needs to be improved and accelerated, further integrating the objectives of the directive into sectoral policies, in particular in the field of agriculture, transport and energy.
first, further action is needed on chemicals and pollutants in order to improve the quality of water bodies and reduce risks to human and animal health and the environment.
water pollution is also a serious threat to biodiversity, with a significant negative impact on flora and fauna.
transition to organic farming, phasing out pesticides and greater attention to the environment.
the protection of farmers and the environment will be central, with member states having to spend 37% of the additional funds on greening measures or on the protection of animal welfare and 55% on measures aimed at digital and social transformation.
farmers will thus be able to defend the european agricultural system and work from now on to achieve those ambitious environmental goals we set ourselves with the green new deal.
i believe that there are three qualifying features of this agreement: the imposition of clear environmental and social objectives linked to the allocation of additional resources; the use of the crisis reserve fund, including during the transitional period, to cushion the economic and social effects of the pandemic and special attention to the marketing of olive oil under the common organisation of the markets, which will make it possible to protect olive oil production as much as possible.
this agreement is a good start to the ongoing negotiations on the new cap, which will allow europe's largest productive sector to innovate and transform, while at the same time safeguarding the centrality of the active farmer and the continuing quest for quality, health and sustainability of production for the well-being of all european citizens.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
we therefore want to plan together for a more sustainable and fair future, along the paths of respect for the environment, development, culture, modernity, and we must be able to do all this by working on strengthening economic governance and attracting important private investment, but there are also shadows, mr borrell.
the challenges of peace, security, the fight against terrorism, respect for human rights, environmental protection and a positive and truly supportive approach to immigration are at stake.
this council proposal risks becoming a dream book if we do not address some crucial issues: replace 'recommendations' with legally binding acts; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
recognise lifelong vocational training as a right, to address the digital and environmental transition through upskilling and reskilling.
neither the european citizens and the economies which have been hard hit, nor the climate, could have waited any longer.
on climate action, i welcome the fact that the governments managed to strengthen the european 2030 emission reduction targets, though a net decrease of at least -55% is still far short of the scientific consensus which is needed (-65%).
parliament has made a strong mandate of a greenhouse gas emission of -60%, which we will continue to fight for in the upcoming weeks and months because, again, the law has been made according to the normal legislative procedure.
and yes, of course we must protect and restore land, forests and other ecosystems in our fight to reverse climate change, but this should never be compensation for lessening efforts by the biggest emitters.
if the european union is to be a global leader in fighting climate change, we will need to do more than just come up with some creative calculations.
if we are to overcome the climate crisis, the future has to be completely fossil fuel-free.
i hope this will improve in the future and i count on our common normal legal proceedings in order to draw up a good climate law.
the eu does seem to have a bit of a problem finding the right level of ambition on a regular basis, and that applies to climate policy as well.
europe can and must lead the way towards a sustainable transition.
the impact of the covid-19 pandemic has also not been sufficiently addressed, as i believe, as has the impact on carbon leakage and smes, for example.
it should also be clear that each region has different possibilities and opportunities to reduce emissions cost-effectively.
flanders, for example, is a small and densely populated region with limited open space and with important energy-intensive industrial clusters.
it is a question of climate policy, because those who pollute the most should pay more and thus contribute to a just transition.
we will continue, as we have done for the past three years, to monitor and work towards a strong europe, a united europe, a sustainable europe in solidarity, and the multiannual financial framework and these resources must now, as i said at the beginning, be rapidly channelled into the economy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
more than 60 000 people are detained for political reasons, in a climate of systematic repression of all forms of dissent and freedom.
i do not agree with those who complain about the level of standards in britain because, if it was a country that was with us until the other day, the same european parliament that gives the ok to trade agreements with asian realities that do not respect environmental standards, workers' rights; we have not suspended turkey from the customs union with the european union, i mean, it would be hypocritical at least to raise these issues at this stage.