mr president, we are currently engaged in a lively debate on the european green deal - the european union's growth strategy, which must not only neutralise our impact on climate and strengthen the protection of the environment and biodiversity, but also ensure the well-being of europe's people.
the common agricultural policy will also have to aim at greater environmental, economic and social sustainability.
but we will not achieve the social and economic sustainability necessary for the success of the green path if farmers in different eu countries continue to receive different pay for the same work.
in lithuania and the other baltic countries, farmers working under the same conditions, ensuring high standards of food safety and quality, environmental protection and animal welfare, still receive direct payments that are well below the european union average.
we could have done this by putting the issue of living and working conditions in vietnam and climate change on the agenda together with our partners.
the chapter on occupational safety and the environment is not very well developed.
on the trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter, improving the implementation and enforcement of all our agreements is very important, and this is a key priority for the commission.
the fta and the ipa will create another important and conducive environment to ensure that these issues are not put under the table, but are consistently high on the agenda.
environment was mentioned: of course vietnam is one of the countries that are most affected by climate change.
and, under the trade and sustainable development chapter, this is explicitly mentioned.
finally, in conclusion, could i say that, by voting in favour of this free trade agreement, you are voting in favour of a deal that will give us the political and institutional influence and the proper structures to make improvements on issues like human rights, like labour rights, like climate change and like environment policies.
the eu will also have greater influence over vietnam on human rights and environmental issues once the agreement enters into force.
the free trade agreement includes a commitment to protect the fundamental rights of workers, the human rights of the population at large and the environment.
these are 'old-school' agreements with special rights for investors and no enforceable environmental or social standards.
the eu is giving this trade agreement the chance to actively promote human rights and the environment along global production chains, despite the european parliament's call to the eu commission to do so in its resolution on the european green deal of 15 january 2020. in vietnam we are witnessing violations of human rights and repression of organized workers.
the report focuses on the review of the current ecb policies, future monetary policy, actions against climate change, and a stronger global role for the euro.
recognising the sustainable growth cannot be achieved by monetary policy alone.
special emphasis is given to the fight against climate change and the implementation of the paris agreement.
we stress that the ecb is bound by the paris agreement on climate change and this should be reflected by implementing the environmental, social and governance principle into its policies.
number one, the role of monetary policy in the current economic environment and, number two, the structural challenges facing the euro area economy.
we are fully aware that the low interest rate environment has a bearing on savings income, asset valuation, risk-taking and house prices.
the european green deal and national initiatives to finance the ecological transition could add to these dynamics by contributing to stronger and more sustainable growth.
the european parliament’s draft resolution on the ecb’s annual report highlights three structural developments affecting the ecb’s operating environment: digitalisation, climate change and the institutional architecture of economic and monetary union.
digitalisation and climate change were not made in europe.
we also have to gear up on climate change – and not only because we care as citizens of this world.
like digitalisation, climate change affects the context in which central banks operate.
first, we are working to extend our knowledge about the economic impact of climate change and ensure that its effects are better reflected in our economic analyses, in our models and in our forecasting methods.
second, through its financial stability tasks, the ecb is monitoring systemic risks stemming from climate change and the transition to a carbon-neutral economy.
this work will ultimately enable us to test how well the euro area banking sector is able to withstand climate-related risks.
this is so in our staff pension fund, for instance, where we decided to switch to a low-carbon index, and we are investigating what else we can do in our market operations.
the strategy review launched by the ecb’s governing council last month will also take stock of how rapid digitalisation and the threat to environmental sustainability – together with globalisation and evolving financial structures – have further transformed the environment in which monetary policy operates.
while i have thus far focused on the ecb, it is important to recognise that digitalisation and climate change are universal developments that affect all of us in europe and worldwide.
like the report, the commission considers that monetary policy alone, which is an ecb competence, is not sufficient to achieve sustainable growth and price stability.
this is linked to the less-supportive external environment, ongoing structural shifts and high uncertainty, for instance regarding trade policies.
first, the commission has made the transition to a climate—neutral economy a priority with the european green deal.
in the context of the european green deal, we agree with the ecb’s conclusion that climate—change—related financial stability risks hold the potential to become systemic for the euro area, in particular if markets are not pricing these risks correctly.
we will soon launch a consultation on the next steps on the sustainable finance agenda.
our aim is to develop a renewed sustainable finance strategy by early autumn which, among other things, will aim to improve the way climate and environmental risks are managed and integrated into the financial system.
we will also establish the eu green bond standard and explore how it can increase public and private finance for sustainable investments.
debt sustainability remains important, as financial stability is a pre-condition for growth and job creation.
they are like mutating viruses, becoming active in the dirty environment of angry nationalism.
mr president, i will start by saying that germany has played a decisive role by taking navalny to a safe environment, by saving navalny’s life and by establishing that this was indeed a military chemical weapon attack.
report on digital finance: a new environment where support and backing for innovation needs to be combined with the need for control, the need for very strict regulation also to prevent abuse, fraud or fraudulent uses.
madam president, agustin carstens, director-general of the bank of international settlements, called bitcoin a combination of ponzi scheme, financial bubble and environmental disaster.
i tend to agree with him, and would add that bitcoin and thousands, now thousands, of other so-called crypto assets are also a ripe environment and vehicle for financial crime, including money laundering.
therefore, these assets, basically, have no sustainable value for society and, because of that, are prohibited in a number of jurisdictions.