such a close relationship presupposes that the uk respects european social, labour and environmental standards.
we will also have improved access to the vietnamese market in services, such as finance, distribution, logistics or environmental services.
however, our agreements will be on trade and investment, and i’m aware that the european parliament has put a strong emphasis on the trade and sustainable development chapter of the vietnam agreement.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important step towards the achievement of the objective of the directive.
a green, inclusive, sustainable recovery plan for a sustainable economy.
what remains is that we are using the money here now from the second pillar, that we are using the money that is in itself for climate action, for environmental protection and for supporting regional communities.
nicaraguan citizens should be able to exercise their freedom of association effectively, and non-governmental organisations should operate in an environment conducive to the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
the new cap will therefore be more economically and environmentally sustainable.
the same rules do not apply to all in the implementation of climate change legislation.
although the latvian agricultural sector still needs to improve and change its practices in order to ensure a greener and more sustainable agriculture in the future compared to the situation in other member states, latvia is certainly an example to follow.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
to repay the funds raised under the next generation eu, the commission will put forward proposals for new own resources, starting with a revised emissions trading system, a carbon border adjustment mechanism and the digital levy.
to achieve a climate neutral europe by 2050, we have set out many of the measures that we will table as a part of the ‘fit for 55’ package.
you will see the different proposals, ranging from renewables to energy efficiency.
we will follow this up with a host of initiatives to implement the eu circular economy action plan, the eu biodiversity strategy and the farm to fork strategy.
we have to create an artificial intelligence ecosystem that serves the people first.
this brings me to the industrial strategy, which has to remain competitive while taking into account the digital and environmental challenges of tomorrow.
our environmental ambitions cannot be only about defending targets.
the epp will focus on concrete means that will bring about a significant reduction in emissions.
fighting against climate change and fighting for employment in the context of the covid-19 pandemic are the top priorities of our citizens.
if you are doing nature conservation and environmental protection - which i am all for - then please consider the many truck journeys that are completely unnecessary across europe.
what you said about climate change and the digital transition we also need to see translated into budget lines.
we have seen that the covid—19 crisis has served as an accelerator of our efforts and that more and more people in europe realised during this first lockdown how nature is important, how protection of the environment is crucial for the survival of the human species, and how important it is not to waiver in protecting our environment, and therefore we need to find the ways for how this twin transition could be mutually reinforced.
it must also ensure a strong social dimension in the approach to economic and environmental policies.
the sanctions list has to include alexander lukashenko and go beyond his closest environment.
i share the views of members of this house, as clearly expressed in the recommendation, that only an inclusive national dialogue with the broader society, in particular with the coordination council, can lead to a peaceful and sustainable solution of the crisis.
because it is an economic crisis, a social and distribution crisis and a climate crisis.
but the climate crisis also requires us to set clear targets for green jobs, and i want - and i think we all want this together - to use the covid-19 crisis as an opportunity to drive european integration and the transformation of our economy.
new jobs must be created alongside old ones, flexible working arrangements must be made possible, a healthy working environment must be more closely monitored, work from home and teleworking must be unilaterally regulated.
we should also support sustainable and long-term investments, for example in the high-tech sector, which will help the union get back on the path to growth.
in this context, a new regional paradigm has been emerging, where a peace deal is no longer a precondition to normalisation, and both the kingdom of saudi arabia and the emirates have developed a narrative which describes normalisation as a driver in the israeli-arab confidence-building process, creating a more conducive environment for a two-state solution.
the epp group strongly supports the creation of a european parliament high—level mission to help stop the violence, assist in freeing political prisoners, and create an environment for a national dialogue that can lead to new free and fair elections.
while the commission is working on a legislative proposal on sustainable corporate governance, the eu already has mandatory standards in some sectors and actively promotes international guidelines.