very rarely do you have an almost unanimous opinion in the debate as you (the members) demonstrated this afternoon, and i share your view that despite the efforts of the commission to foster greater harmonisation and to push for sustainable products, in this case, it didn’t work as we expected.
after listening to your debate, i would like to assure you that for the commission, consumer convenience, reduction of electronic waste, safety and interoperability will very clearly be our guiding principles.
at the same time, i would join your call to industry for it to do its utmost to accelerate innovation, bringing new, more performing products to the market for the benefit of consumers and for the benefit of our environment.
this is how we can demonstrate our commitment to the sustainability of our products, and this is what we are going to do.
the european parliament, in its efforts to reduce the environmental and climate impact of the economy and in its advocacy of consumer interests, has refrained from debating this issue.
right now brexit, covid, economic depression and instability at our borders create both incentives and opportunities to reform the union, to make it a world power: democratic, welfare-based, and climate and carbon neutral.
mr president, last week the council met with a very busy agenda: corona, brexit and climate, they were all on the agenda.
we are working on a roadmap which would cover a digital levy, a carbon border adjustment system, revision of the emissions trading system (ets) and some other measures which we know are very important, not only from the political and economic point of view, but also from the point of view of making sure that these new own resources will help us to fund the right and correct policies for the future.
i would like to thank ms keller, mr urtasun and others for your support for our ambitious goal for our climate agenda.
i think, without any exaggeration, that this is the most ambitious host of measures we have ever presented in the area of climate goals, and i hope that – with your support – we will be able to achieve them.
many have rightly raised the climate issue.
we are consistent, which is why we have also activated more of what i call "climate diplomacy".
i am pleased that less than a year after this historic decision - in my view - of the european council on climate neutrality by 2050, less than a year later, therefore, we are seeing the first steps: china for 2060 and south africa have spoken.
1.8 billion for the next few years for erasmus, for innovation, for digital, for the climate issue.
the topics of discussion were: eu-uk negotiations, climate policy debate and the field of external relations with a special focus on africa, and the issues of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny and the management of the coronavirus pandemic were re-addressed.
a future friendly relationship between the eu and the uk will undoubtedly be mutually beneficial, but for that to happen, mr johnson must respect the withdrawal agreement and the community rules on social, labour, environmental and taxation.
we must give these young people a future, we must not let these countries go to waste.
the topics of discussion were: eu-uk negotiations, climate policy debate and the field of external relations with a special focus on africa, and the issues of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny and the management of the coronavirus pandemic were re-addressed.
a future friendly relationship between the eu and the uk will undoubtedly be mutually beneficial, but for that to happen, mr johnson must respect the withdrawal agreement and the community rules on social, labour, environmental and taxation.
the approach to climate change remains ideological and completely inadequate to provide european citizens with the answers they need.
between unrealistic targets and unrealistic forecasts, the only effect of these policies will be to make our already struggling industrial sectors less competitive, without achieving full environmental protection.
we agree that in the future we need an economic policy that takes into account both the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic and the challenges of climate protection, growing social and regional inequalities and digitalisation.
meanwhile, the demands of climate change have also been added a consistent climate protection policy requires additional public investment of three-digit billions annually.
this is also a matter of generational justice, because failure to invest today, especially in climate protection, will result in devastating damage and will put a double burden on future generations.
we need a tailor-made counter-cyclical policy for sustainable growth, which takes into account the requirements of the sustainable development goals, the european pillar of social rights and the green deal.
this means that fair distribution, reducing unemployment and reducing co2 emissions must be central to european economic policy and that economic policy must also become more democratic.
third, we should use nextgenerationeu to transform our economies, not to go back to normal but to build more sustainable, resilient and competitive economies.
the european semester was created as the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact, because, ladies and gentlemen, we can of course do the green deal and the sustainable development goals and everything, but only if we leave the next generation a beautiful globe, but because of the high level of over-indebtedness we have no longer made economic resources available, we have not done the next generation any favors either.
that is why i am asking you to refocus on what needs to be done to ensure that the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact is designed in such a way that member states do not fall into a permanent debt trap, and then we will be truly sustainable.
digitalization and climate change can only be managed if everyone can join in.
what we in the renew europe have done in this year’s report, is try to combine the existing macroeconomic core of the semester fiscal discipline and healthy debt levels, with the urgent demands of today, like the need for public and private investment, social protection, as well as the need to tackle climate change.
third, the need to tackle climate change, which is already an overarching, horizontal priority.
therefore, we urge the commission to develop a climate indicator, which would be supplementary to the existing semester framework.
when critically adapted to current circumstances, the european semester can have a real, transformational impact on the european economy, and the current report is a significant attempt to strengthen the semester framework by making it more sustainable, effective and resilient to future challenges.
since the outbreak of the covid pandemic, much energy has been paid to the eu economies and labour markets as a whole, but often not to specific sectors and workers.
we must all be aware that it is the lukashenko regime that has created this lawless and violent environment where the value of human life is degraded.
– mr president, indeed the year of rail is a welcome initiative to raise awareness about the significance of this mode of transport, as well as its economic, social, environmental and cultural aspects.