will it also be afraid, or will it promote a clear, ecological, sovereign european consumer policy that is understandable to the citizens?
it's very good that we emphasize that it's about waste reduction, but what really disappoints me is that people's dependence on mobile phones is not mentioned.
secondly, this is hugely detrimental to the environment.
we have more than 51 000 tons of electronic waste per year coming from chargers.
i want to see that we pay attention to the gender and broader equality perspective when addressing some of our society’s main challenges, such as climate change and digitalisation.
ms aubry made reference to the carbon adjustment mechanism.
we would like to see countries like china and many others who have an emissions-trading (et) system as ambitious as we have, but if this would not be the case, we simply would have to consider a mechanism like carbon adjustment to make sure that we have a level playing field and that we would motivate also other big economies to make sure that they would work on lowering their carbon footprint for their economy and for their products.
this would not only help us to tackle greenhouse gas emissions but increase the quality of life, especially for all those who are living in social housing, and that through this measure, thanks to energy efficiency, we would reduce the bills they have to pay electricity at the end of every month for heating, cooling or simply using.
we will have a very important summit in zagreb, organised thanks to the croatian presidency, where we want to bring a new impetus, new energy into this process and our commitment to northern macedonia and albania is very clear, and that’s a priority for this european commission.
of course, it would be on all of us to make sure that we would use the just transition money where it’s most needed, for the people who need to be retrained, where we need to find new jobs for coal miners, for the people working in energy—intensive industries, to make sure that this transition is fair and that nobody is left behind, whether a person or a city, or a region.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, you have forgotten to answer any of my questions: one on energy interconnections with the iberian peninsula to reduce dependence on russian gas and the other on the cohesion funds.
only by bringing young people into the labour market can we hope to ensure the long-term sustainability of employment and social protection systems.
the programme aims to address the intergenerational challenges we face today, such as climate change, digitalisation and migration.
the fight against energy poverty and the upskilling of workers will be certainly helpful to make the transition towards a clean europe a just one.
we need a single market without barriers, we need legislation with little red tape, we need a digital economy with fair and secure access to data as a raw material, we need a green deal with a carbon leakage process and impact assessments, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
it’s time that we delivered a strong social dimension and a safe online environment for our citizens.
working from home or working close to home means that you are cutting down the time you’re commuting, you’re also cutting down co2 emissions and you have a better work—life balance.
any possible update of the strategy will have to be flexible enough to be future-proof as the digital ecosystem continues to evolve, with children and young people among the most ardent and avant-garde users of technology.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the online environment is an important part of life for the younger generation.
a safe online environment must be our immediate action priority.
we can put off to autumn things that are not urgently needed now, and i also believe that we do not necessarily need a green deal now, we do not necessarily need a farm-to-table strategy now, we do not necessarily need a biodiversity strategy now.
the strategy needs to set short, mid and long term measures to protect people’s health, jobs, and well-being, and prepare for a different - sustainable and resilient - future for all.
despite its noble intentions, this is a direct blow to the whole tourism ecosystem and to the aviation industry.
they are also timely and crucial to prevent unnecessary pollution caused by the operation of ghost flights.
for this reason, whilst i reiterate the need for a rescue plan for the tourism industry, in the interest of all workers in the aviation industry, their families and the sustainability of the european aviation industry, we should be prepared for the applicability of such temporary amendments to be extended after october 24th.
what i think i saw most across all the interventions today is that there is a clear push for making sure that the eu, our union, our europe, will emerge from this crisis stronger, more modern, more sustainable and more resilient.
we want to make it greener and more sustainable.
we need an ambitious mff that meets the expectations of eu citizens, with the necessary funding for the political commitments and ambitions envisaged by the eu, with a strong social dimension and in line with the objectives of the european pillar of social rights, the united nations sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the gender equality objective, to ensure that economic recovery strengthens territorial cohesion and competitiveness and that it takes into account social and economic inequalities and the needs of those most affected by the crisis, such as women, minorities and people living at or below the poverty line.
the mff must mobilise funds for sustainable social policies aimed at reducing poverty and social exclusion, in particular in relation to child poverty and the european child guarantee and other measures to reduce it.
in this context, the joint resolution includes several proposals from the spanish delegation of the pp in the european parliament, such as the development of a european certification seal guaranteeing the highest hygiene protocols in infrastructure and means of transport, in order to generate confidence among tourists, the implementation of measures for the recovery of tourism in island regions and in the outermost regions (orr), or the need for a budget line dedicated to sustainable tourism within the next multiannual financial framework (2021-2027).
the negotiations should increase investment in research, health and climate objectives.
the negotiations should aim at the establishment of a common digital tax and a carbon cap.
we cannot justify budget cuts in the social field and significant funding cuts in programmes such as 'horizon', 'erasmus+', 'esf+', 'digital europe' and others that are vital for long-term and sustainable growth in the eu.
in tackling an unprecedented crisis, the institutions must put people first, combining the economic, social and environmental aspects of every action, so that no european citizen is left behind.
it is a good omen for europe; a historic agreement was reached between european leaders, enabling europe as a whole to tackle the challenges it faces, including environmental ones, while giving it the chance to grow economically.
i firmly believe that it is time to strengthen rather than limit our focus on digital transformation alongside environmental transformation, and that it is therefore wise to invest heavily in research and innovation to remain competitive with the rest of the global giants.
a civilized society celebrates children and provides them with a safe environment in which to grow and learn.
the new challenges need inclusiveness, innovation, sustainability.
it's a waste of talent.
in ethiopia, at the end of 2018, there were 2.9 million internally displaced people, with no sustainable solution being found.
a comprehensive list of sectors and uses considered to be high risk is also included, such as education, health, employment and recruitment of workers, finance and credit, automated vehicle transport, public administration decisions or environmental issues.
in parliament we also want to ensure that artificial intelligence is environmentally sustainable and socially responsible, because an ethical artificial intelligence is democratic, egalitarian, respects workers and intellectual property, cultural diversity and the right to digital illustration.
and that is why we call on the member states and the union to direct investment in research to projects which offer a social or environmental benefit.
so on the one hand we find the resources by asking the chinese government, which created the drama of this epidemic, on the other hand we also cut the waste, we cut the strasbourg headquarters: we have seen that it is not necessary, that you can operate from milan with what i would call unique efficiency, without having to move and have a location in strasbourg with the associated costs.
it is time for member states to show vision and create future projects to attract european money into sustainable investment projects.
i would like to highlight the positive provisions in terms of social cohesion, support to smes, gender equality and sustainable tourism.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'recycled' to cover the use of waste water.
but we have to do everything in our power to make a sustainable lifestyle not just the privilege of the rich, but of all those who care about the environment.
the economic crisis as a consequence of the health crisis is forcing us to think outside the box and to think about how to create new jobs, save citizens' money, and at the same time achieve the ambitious goal of making europe a climate-neutral continent by 2050. this report links all these objectives and i call on all colleagues to show during the vote that the green new deal is not an empty promise but an opportunity for economic growth, environmental protection and consumer rights!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have made a choice to be spearheads of the ecological transition.
today, it is our duty to create a circular economy with more sustainable production and consumption, to make our european industry more resilient and self-sufficient.
to do this, it is imperative to review our entire ecosystem, including the single market.
i recall the french experience in 2018 with the anti-waste law brought by brune poirson.
sustainable consumption must become our default choice.
today we are proposing a strategy based on the principles of sustainability, consumer protection, competitiveness and fair competition.
we call for the establishment of a right to repair of products because, as has been said, we are all consumers and we all want to see our rights strengthened , to fight against the practices of planned obsolescence which are a reality , to better inform consumers, to guarantee an effective right of appeal, to introduce sustainability criteria in public tenders and reciprocity with third countries to make public procurement greener and more innovative.
we hope that our voice will be heard and that, thanks to your proposals, we will make europe a pioneer in sustainable innovation and growth.
entrepreneurs also want to be seen as more responsible and sustainable.
mr president, as we have so many people on our planet, it is essential to adapt our ways of producing and consuming in order to tackle environmental issues.
we want more sustainability in the european single market, especially for consumer products, and we also know that we can promote this sustainability through political and legal measures.
we have spoken out against exceptions to intellectual property rights, we have spoken out against the idea of introducing psychological obsolescence, and we have also spoken out against an eu advertising tax: we believe, and rightly so, because market principles - and the speakers before me have already mentioned this - help the supplier to win in competition who offers the best offer to the consumer, and it will be the most sustainable offer in the long term.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
consumers must be able to review the information that is attached to a product in order to make sustainable choices.
and with this report we come from the committee on the internal market with some very concrete proposals on how we can ensure a greener, more sustainable internal market for the benefit of both consumers and businesses and our planet.
we also need to ensure a way to have sustainable economic growth.
in short, a sustainable green transition must go hand in hand with a fair green transition, and that is why i support our report.
we will not solve the climate problems in one day, but with this report we are making a number of good suggestions on how we can do that, how we can get started on securing a green and sustainable internal market.
mr president, we all want to be more sustainable but this goal should not come at a cost to the european smes and the access of consumers to low-cost options and a wide choice of products.
instead we should focus on controlling the voluntary labels and the green-washing which often misleads consumers to think something is more sustainable than it is.
if we must work on better sustainable labelling, let’s work on making the existing eco-design directive better, not just adding another number from 1 to 10 to every label without any context.
it might get a score of 10 for reparability but a d on energy consumption.
if the costs are higher, while the environmental benefits are low, we should seek other solutions.
let’s be more sustainable, but let’s not destroy the single market in the attempt to be so.
sustainability is a different story.
sustainability is that you actually have a right to repair, that you're not forced to throw away something that's otherwise of good quality and buy something new.
we want to protect the resources of this world, we want to make sure that less waste is generated.
mr president, in order to combat the climate crisis and meet the ambitious targets for the green transition and the european green deal, both production and consumption patterns need to be fully sustainable.
the value of sustainability must be enhanced at every step in the supply chain to ensure durable products and services - durable not only in the final product, but at all stages of manufacturing, including the extraction of raw materials.
a sustainable common market must be affordable.
we presented some of them in our strategy for sustainable and smart mobility.
it is needed as an alternative way and for an alternative sustainable mode, but it’s also a business.
smes are front-runners in terms of transition and innovation but depend on an environment in which they can thrive.
the enterprise europe network will be enhanced to provide advice on sustainability to smes and it will work closely with digital innovation hubs to provide a seamless service of advice to smes at local and regional level.
and to take them forward to the opportunities offered by the digital and environmental transition.
the focus on recovery from the pandemic, workers' rights and the focus on the skills needed to move forward in the digital and environmental heartlands.
– the agreement on the next mff 2021-2027 by the european parliament and the council is crucial to the immediate start of our economy’s recovery phase, while taking into account the long-term perspective of the environmental and the digital transition.