one common charger for all mobile phones, cameras and tablets means less cost, less waste and more convenience for consumers.
i would therefore ask the commission to come up with a plan for a single universal charger, one that is good for consumers, that reduces waste and that leaves room for innovation.
the most vulnerable people in society are the ones that are hit first and hardest, with increased rent, energy prices and scarcity of houses resulting in them losing their home.
i am particularly pleased that the programme of the croatian presidency includes islands, as they have, for example, shown that they can be leaders in europe's energy transition.
madam president, mr prime minister, in the transport, telecommunications and energy chapter of your presidency's agenda you mentioned, among other things, the climate-neutral eu and the related implementation of the energy union.
old priorities have been priorities for decades because they are important, not because they are outdated, and we agree together that we need to do more on new priorities: border protection, combating climate change and protecting the environment.
nuclear energy is then needed in the energy mix.
in a dutch newspaper of 9 january last, commissioner timmermans said that nuclear energy was too expensive and unsustainable.
that's nonsense, because wind turbines and solar panels are the ones that will be producing a mountain of waste in 20 years that we have no solution for.
france has a share of more than 70% in nuclear energy.
the price of a kwh is almost half that of germany, which has already invested €200 billion in renewable energy.
our investments must be economically sound and energy must be affordable to keep up with the competition from the united states and china, otherwise we will lose jobs.
i urge the croatian presidency to put nuclear energy on the agenda.
on my second day in office, i engaged with grassroots environmental human rights defenders from around the world at the human rights forum, focusing on how to build a fair environment for the future.
it was the year of the rise of political violence against women human rights and environmental defenders, who, like marielle franco, were murdered.
the commission of inquiry on burundi, in its latest report in september, denounced the persistence of a climate of fear and intimidation of all persons who do not support the ruling party.
climate change is aggravating the situation faced by the people, and it is essential to work in the medium term to create conditions for access to the country's available natural resources, which will be an essential part of building peace and economic and social stability in the region.
we need to hold our corporations accountable for human rights violations and environmental destruction.
nigeria is facing many tensions: boko haram is trying to occupy the north-east and is responsible for terrorist attacks which have killed thousands of people and displaced millions over the last decade; the problem is that there is a lot of tension between herders and farmers, which is not an ethnic conflict, not a religious conflict, but the result of climate change, which is driving herders to occupy the more fertile land, which is currently occupied by farmers.
i would like to mention the case of shell, which was attacked by the local population because shell was responsible for a lot of pollution and theft of oil resources.
that's where a lot of jobs are being created right now by investing in sustainability.
the production of sustainable vehicles will create thousands of new jobs.
so i call on you to invest not only in sustainable mobility, but also in the jobs of the future.
we urgently need a sustainable european approach to migration to regain control.
the climate is being abused to transfer even more power to brussels.
today, this is what allows us to work, with this intimate relationship between a modelling of our environment in the form of 1s and 0s (soon they will be qubits) and, precisely, the decisions we are ready to make.
what you obviously meant was that when you take data that characterizes an animal in its natural environment, if you take the same animal in another environment, obviously you're going to have differences in the application that comes from the algorithm and therefore the process of what's called the learning phase, machine learning, that's going to integrate all of this data.
the aim, of course, is not to deregulate, but to make our legislation more flexible, more agile, better adapted to the current environment for smes, especially in the digital age, so that smes can benefit from all that this evolution will bring in terms of changing the way they work, but also produce and establish a relationship with their own customers.
i would like to put a very specific question to the commission: how will the commission measure implementation costs of european union legislation ex ante and ex post so that the compliance costs for smes are reduced, while at the same time safeguarding environmental, labour and social standards?
and if you really want to make rules, i have two for you: the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
– mr president, two months ago i presented my views on the future of the trans-european networks – energy (ten-e) regulation before the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
in the green deal resolution adopted in january, parliament stressed the importance of modern, clean, secure and smart new energy infrastructure for delivering the european green deal.
turning this vision into reality requires making the ten-e regulation adopted in 2013 fit for europe’s future energy system and fully aligned with the european green deal.
if we want to make europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050, we have no time to lose.
the focus will clearly shift to deploying clean energy across the whole economy in the most efficient way.
by 2050, the share of electricity in the total energy consumption is expected to be more than double.
also carbon capture, storage and utilisation and energy storage.
that means, firstly, that the sustainability criteria for all candidate projects will be strengthened to take better into account for each project its co2 and methane emissions.
secondly, i will strive to integrate more energy transition projects in the 5th pci process, in particular smart clean co2 infrastructure projects.
i will be guided by the objective to include more innovative projects enabling the transmission of renewable and decarbonised gases and projects enabling the smart integration of electricity and gas networks.
the list includes key infrastructure projects that sustain the increasing share of renewables, address the remaining energy security challenges and underpin the modernisation of an integrated infrastructure.
as a consequence, key electricity interconnectors and energy transition projects such as the north sea wind-power hub, new smart green projects and new co2 network projects would not be eligible for funding under the connecting europe facility.
i have set out how i intend to work on an energy infrastructure policy fit for the future.
i count on your input and support for making the ten-e policy a driving force for europe’s climate neutrality transition.
– mr president, commissioner, i call for an urgent revision of the ten-e guidelines – a revision consistent with the energy and climate objectives in all the five dimensions of the energy union: decarbonisation, security of supply, internal energy market, energy efficiency, more research leading to affordability and breakthroughs in low-carbon technologies.
this list is based on the current guidelines, not taking into account the new climate ambition.
it is much less ambitious in terms of climate change goals.
in our quest to move towards carbon neutrality by 2050, we need to make sure that we invest in the proper infrastructure today.
in the full list of energy projects that we are discussing, there are still fossil fuel projects, including oil—supply projects.
it is for these reasons that the european commission needs to carry out all the sustainability assessments required to ensure that money is invested in projects that can really make the european union carbon neutral by 2050. it is only if we do this that we are really making sure that we have projects that are in line with what we want to achieve with the european green deal.
it is only in this way that we can have a real internal energy market, by linking the markets together.
and to my colleagues who are saying: well, okay, it’s not ideal but let’s do it for now – are those the same colleagues who said a couple of months ago: ‘there’s a climate emergency, we need to act now’?
and now we say: oh, let’s just give more fossil subsidies to fossil fuel projects which will make us more dependent of a gas lock-in and will not bring us to a climate-neutral economy that is so desperately needed.
they do not want nuclear energy either.
we must continue this investment because affordable energy and a reliable energy supply are essential to our economy.
one example is carbon capture and storage, a technology that is essential for making industry sustainable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transition to the single market is not a waste of time.
we should tackle this at european level and not in the individual member states, because in the future each member state will be able to specify how energy is generated.
but together we can ensure that we complement each other, catch each other's peaks and troughs and increase efficiency, energy security, flexibility and affordability.
to stop climate change, the rest of the world will have to join in.
first, no environmental assessment has been undertaken.
we need a list that serves the european common interest, and is in line with our ambition towards a sustainable europe.
our trading partners should keep human rights and environmental standards to the highest level.
our trading partners should keep human rights and the environmental standards to the highest level.
people need to be able to keep up with the digitization of their environment.
as representatives of our european citizens, we know that it is important to put into action our commitment for agenda 2030. women need to be on board for everything, gender equality is necessary for sustainable development, and 2020 is the year for the rapid realisation of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls.
- mr president, commissioner, european agricultural policy subsidizes large industrial farmers, confines animals to mega-stalls, forces farmers to grow at an unhealthy, unsustainable and unsustainable scale, causes enormous environmental pollution through mega-subsidies to the livestock industry, sends hundreds of small-scale farmers to the brink of ruin every day, drags millions of animals around the world in appalling conditions and contributes to a huge loss of biodiversity.
fair to animals, fair to the environment and fair to the climate.
(applause)
madam president, commissioner, i fully agree with you that the farm to fork strategy must be an ambitious strategy capable of responding in a very clear way to the challenges of environmental sustainability, human health, climate change, animal welfare.
the vitality of our rural communities depends on the economic and social sustainability worthy of our farmers.
people are demonstrating for more climate and nature protection.
of course, we all know that we have to be more sustainable, that we have to do more for the environment.
we're not going to launch until 2023. the package of legislation is in place and we can incorporate elements into eco-schemes and also protect the environment.
madam president, the von der leyen commission announced its intention to set up a sustainable agriculture and food model that respects the environment and consumers, which it presented in the form of the slogan 'farm to fork'.
if we continue to distribute payments in this way, 70%, without conditions, just on the basis of area, we are not making a real environmental policy.
that cannot work, and colleagues, it is about farmers, yes, but we have a massive problem with biodiversity loss.
i therefore say that if this mercosur agreement is adopted in this way and we continue to import so much soya, then this too will be a disaster for the environment.
the challenges facing agriculture are immense: to ensure sufficient food of high quality, for the landscape and biodiversity, and to do so with the lowest possible emissions.
i would like to say to the commissioner: assess farms not on the basis of the number of animals per farm but on the basis of their environmental performance per unit of product.
- i would ask mr ruissen whether he has also considered reducing food waste, since the total value of food waste exceeds the european budget every year.
it is very important to prevent food waste at the various links in the chain.
we need also to have more sustainable partnerships with safe third countries.
this obligation has catastrophic consequences for the environment and for airlines in the time of the corona crisis.
this is the time to revive our economies in a sustainable, digital and green way, but it’s also the time to strengthen our democracies.
– madam president, since we do not have a lot of time, let’s go directly to the matters on the report on human rights and democracy in the world 2019. one important subject that the report highlights is the link between human rights and the environment.
in 2018, 77% of human rights defenders killed worldwide were working on environmental issues.
due to our geographic proximity, our ongoing dialogue, among others, on how to improve standards on environment and climate change is essential for all europeans.
i would also like to point out that, in a positive way, climate change and biodiversity loss are recognised as a very important threat to human rights, and i think that opened a good path for us.
but also in north africa, involving libya’s neighbouring countries would really contribute to a more sustainable solution.
what we need is more, not less, cohesion, more, not less, structural funds, more, not less, support for the productive sectors, employment, environmental protection.
it is necessary to introduce a cohesion dimension in programmes with centralised management across all programmes, for example in science, environment and other areas, and to bring them into a shared management logic.
the european countryside would be even less populated, without the much needed municipal and environmental infrastructure.
the covid crisis has shown that living in a rural environment with clean air, forests nearby, a garden by the house can be of a higher quality than living on the tenth floor of a city of millions.
in such an environment, it is easier to maintain health and a state of mind.
now we call for an end to the threats, the opening of further dialogue and finding a lasting and sustainable solution to this conflict, possibly via the icj in the hague.
what is happening on lesbos is unacceptable and we have a european responsibility to put in place a sustainable migration policy, so that we can avoid unnecessary suffering and so that we can regain control of migration.
with ‘renewed’ energy?
despite the efforts of the current greek government to improve the situation on lesbos, we need a sustainable solution.
take your responsibilities seriously and assure a real protective environment and procedure.
this humanitarian tragedy, which is happening in one of the poorest countries in the world, which had already terrible development rates, which has been ravaged by climate change, cyclones caused by very serious climate change, this is a political and religious problem that adds to this tragic situation.
environmental rights must be taken into account and the link between all this and the economic and social context must be established.
the rules exist because we work in a multilingual environment and because everyone must be able to obtain correct information.
not only is that at odds with gender equality, a core principle of the eu of course, it’s also a waste of talent, and not only is it a waste of talent, it’s a bad business case because we know that diverse companies do better.
madam president, allow me to say thank you to our rapporteur jytte guteland for her work, because this is the time to decide whether we are serious about embarking on a sustainable path towards climate neutrality by 2050 or whether what we had in this house was only political rhetoric.
how we vote on the climate law today will define us.
the climate crisis we are facing will not go away on its own, nor will it be solved by individual action alone.
so we must reduce carbon pollution and transform our economy to run on clean renewable energy.
this is about realists who are seeing with their eyes the impact of climate change all around us.
that’s why this political group is being progressive and realistic in pushing forward a 60% co2 reduction by 2030. s&d are pushing also for a new climate target for 2040 because we want to provide direction for our member states, our industries and our citizens.
from the very beginning we were at the forefront in asking for a climate law that can put us strongly on the path to ditch fossil fuels and switch to clean energy whilst sustaining a resilient, robust economy.
we need these laws to make sure that we are on track with our targets for 2030, for 2040 and for ensuring carbon neutrality in 2050. just having vague goals on paper did not work, and they will definitely not work.
they would rather risk climate catastrophe and let the rest of us deal with the fallout.
in this house last year we all signed up to the climate emergency.
in this house, time and time and again, we signed up to climate neutrality in 30 years’ time.
now in the climate law we are going to act – and suddenly you see people getting nervous.
president, we always talk about democracy in grand terms here, but in the meantime this european parliament is about to agree to the european climate law.
this will remove the climate goals from national democratic decision-making.
policies, including climate policy, must be the subject of permanent democratic debate and not be fixed for 30 years.
president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, with this climate law we are going to share the costs of the energy transition fairly, we are going to lead by example and we are going to make our climate objectives binding.
for me, it is very important that the biggest polluters make the biggest contributions, because we cannot shift the costs of the energy transition onto our people.
energy producers responsible for more than 80% of greenhouse gases in the netherlands pay less tax on their emissions than ordinary households.
the cost of co2 emissions is simply not shared fairly.
this can and should be done differently, and with this climate bill, we are taking the first step.
mr president, there is a lot of debate about interim climate goals.
let's vote on the climate bill today.
we wanted to reach a major compromise with our colleague from the environment committee, but unfortunately the chairman of the environment committee cancelled those talks.
the content: 30% is reserved for the so-called eco-schemes, 35% for the second pillar for environmental and climate action.
flexibility between the two pillars is given for environmental measures.
30% of the investments are earmarked for investments in climate and environmental measures.
so once again - and i say this to all the critics - once again i appeal to you to give the reform a chance in the interests of the environment, in the interests of climate protection, and above all in the interests of european farmers.
thirdly, our farmers are already doing a lot to promote biodiversity, soil and water conservation and climate protection, in addition to providing food.
in bavaria, every third hectare is covered by environmental programmes.
among other measures, it is imperative that import quotas for products with favourable duties respect social and environmental conditions.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal.
at the same time, agriculture as an economic sector must contribute, as far as possible, to the common struggles against climate change, for a better protection of our water resources and against the loss of biodiversity.
but also the very survival of our farmers must be guaranteed, because without farmers we cannot fight climate change, nor produce enough healthy food.
as rapporteur on strategic plans in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i thank all colleagues who have contributed constructively to the process because we have results: buffer zones along rivers and the protection of permanent grasslands to name a few.
however, i denounce the irresponsible behaviour of those who have torpedoed the joint work between the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and sustainable development.
we could have done better and faster in the interests of the environment and our farmers.
we need a strong common agricultural policy to ensure that european agriculture can continue to provide economic, environmental and social benefits for our farmers and citizens in the future.
this includes the delivery of stronger environmental and climate ambitions, as set out in the green deal and the farm to fork strategy.
this is especially essential if we want the cap to contribute in a credible manner with 40% of its spending to the 30% overall climate objective of the eu budget.
regarding conditionality, the foundation of the future environmental ambition comes from the proposed enhanced conditionality, including the good agricultural and environmental conditions (gaec) applicable to all farmers as a condition for receiving full direct payment.
strong gaecs are essential for reaching the climate and environmental goals established by the european green deal.
this is particularly true for gaec 9, which is key to the success of the biodiversity strategy.
while i agree that the problem may be more acute on arable land, such an approach is counterproductive in halting the loss of biodiversity because other types of agricultural land should also contribute to the biodiversity targets.
allowing farmers to fulfil their obligation with respect to biodiversity by simply not spraying pesticides and fertiliser on 5% of their arable land, regardless of the crops, would be a step backwards compared with the current situation.
this would not contribute to our biodiversity strategy.
we share these concerns and are ready to explore possible solutions, such as making ring-fencing in pillar 1 more flexible or taking on board higher efforts made under pillar 2 on the environmental objectives.
any flexibility must be compatible with the high environmental and climate ambition and the 40% spending target to which i referred previously.
the quality of eco-schemes is equally essential to delivering our environmental and climate ambition.
another layer in our environmental ambition concerns the ring-fencing of 30% of the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) budget for agro-environmental measures.
we now see attempts to include payments to areas with natural constraints (ancs) and with limited environmental contribution, as shown by recent evaluations, in this ring-fencing.
this would be backsliding from the current situation where at eu level we are spending 35% on the environment and climate under the agricultural fund for rural development without anc payments.
we have to be serious about the new environmental ambition of the cap and, therefore, we are determined to count under the ring-fencing only payments for farmers or other beneficiaries who do more for the environment than simply respecting baseline obligations.
farmers have always been the ones to thank for the landscaping and environmental protection.
in the future, more funds are planned under the green architecture of the cap to protect the environment and combat climate change, the effects of which are felt first and foremost by farmers.
we believe that the common agricultural policy can contribute to the development of rural, forestry and agricultural areas, and that this is achieved by maintaining the population in rural areas and by providing sustainable incomes for farmers.
our regi committee also asks that the future cap not penalise the outermost regions and that is why our report rejects the cuts proposed by the european commission and i want to thank, on behalf of our whole committee, the committee on agriculture and sustainable development and rapporteur eric andrieu for maintaining their firm and uncompromising position in this direction.
the progressive integration of environmental and climate issues into the common agricultural policy is one of the main strengths of its evolution.
while the cap's environmental and climate ambition is strengthened by this agreement, it also ensures a balance between these objectives and support for farmers' income and the economic development of the sectors.
finally, an ecological barrier is introduced by prohibiting the entry onto the european market of products which do not meet our health and environmental standards.
this was certainly an essential moment to see the importance of the debate which brings us here today, the debate on a new reform of the common agricultural policy which advances the objective which we have clearly set out for ourselves by the european institutions: a cap which is more environmentally sustainable, more socially sustainable, which is able to guarantee food security so as not to depend on outside production and, also, which is able to guarantee a living wage to farmers.
we have been trying for several decades to transform our agriculture so that it is more in line with our environmental policies and also so that the products have a higher quality and safety, with new traceability systems.
this text puts environmental architecture at the heart of the reform.
the first key point is that direct payments will be subject to a reinforced conditionality with a clear environmental seal.
that will take environmental ambition to unprecedented levels in terms of budget: 30% in the first pillar of direct aid.
we do not want it to be an environmental policy only, we also want it to have a social dimension, and for that we need to ensure that jobs are of quality and that there is a generational renewal.
our rural environment is totally masculinized.
the cap together with the farm-to-table strategy and the biodiversity strategy must make our food industry healthier, fairer and more environmentally friendly.
i am in favour of european competition rules leaving more room for sustainability initiatives from the agricultural sector.
this is not in the interest of the consumer, but it is in the interest of the consumer that the products are produced in a more sustainable way.
so i think that the european competition authority should also look at this and leave more room in the chain for agreements on sustainability, and that the additional costs incurred for a better environment, better animal welfare and a better climate can also be effectively reflected in the price.
we could do much more to cut red tape, which is the first real big problem that our farmers face every day; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are not burdened by the environmental measures proposed by the european commission.
it is often forgotten in brussels that the first guardians of the environment are farmers themselves and that we need an agriculture which is not only environmentally sustainable but also economically sustainable.
yesterday we received a report from the environment agency which presents very dramatic figures.
what about the biodiversity strategy that's not in there?
we need 10% of the area that guarantees biodiversity.
with this 'reform', the commission will not be able to make the green deal or achieve its climate goals.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not only a policy of protection of the environment, but also a policy of protection of the environment.
fortunately, the ecological scheme has been able to provide a tailor-made solution.
it is crucial that the agricultural budget is maintained in the interest of a strong and sustainable agricultural sector, which is ultimately in the interest of all of us.
this means ensuring the quality of our products, strengthening businesses, protecting the environment, promoting animal welfare and supporting the digital development of rural areas and the generational change of european agriculture.
the pandemic, also in agriculture, has shown us that united we are more resilient, as farmers, distributors, processors, wholesale markets have confirmed that working together, the agri-food chain is safer, stronger and more transparent for businesses, the environment and consumers.
a reformed cap will enable our farmers to be more competitive, respect the environment, counteract unfair competition from non-european countries and guarantee consumers food safety and quality as well as transparent prices.
this dependence on the european subsidy infusion is now being abused by the eu to enforce ever stricter environmental regulations.
the netherlands is a small country, but in the efficient use of land and in the care for the environment we are world champions!
their participation in foreign and security policy is not only a matter of representation, it is also vital for sustainable peace.
these vital conditions contribute to an inclusive and sustainable future for all of us.
striving for equal representation means sustainable peace and security for everyone.
mr president, in the fight against climate change and environmental degradation we need everyone, and therefore i welcome the initiatives announced by the commission in the new consumer agenda on establishing the right to repair, limiting premature obsolescence and empowering the consumer for the green transition.
but a truly sustainable single market should not only empower consumers, but also businesses for the green transition.
we can support them by providing a regulatory framework that sets a clear direction towards climate neutrality, circularity and energy efficiency.
clear rules will help create an investment climate where businesses that bring sustainable alternatives to the market are rewarded, instead of being confronted with competitors that are misleading consumers with false green claims or are bringing products to the market that break shortly past the warranty deadline.
i call on you, all of you, my colleagues here today, to vote in favour of our amendments on mandatory labelling and planned obsolescence and not to water down the report, but to vote for a sustainable single market in line with our planetary boundaries.
all sorts of new regulations, obligations, labels for producers in the area of 'sustainability'.
consumers are thanks to information technology better informed than ever, they are becoming more critical and environmental considerations are increasingly part of their purchasing behaviour.
for decades, the innovative capacity within our single market has led to cleaner, better and more sustainable products, sometimes with a little help from the regulatory side, but more often not.
agreements in three dimensions: political, economic and social, with a reality already on the ground: direct shipping lines between haifa and jebel ali, near dubai, the first plans for an oil pipeline between eilat and ashkelon to transport emirati oil to europe, the exchange of good practices, especially environmental ones, the issue of desalination of water to face shared challenges together, all this while some 30 weekly flights already circle the skies between tel aviv, abu dhabi and dubai.
mr orbán and mr morawiecki threaten to block eur 1 800 billion meant for our citizens, for our climate and for our economies, to protect their own corrupt and autocratic agendas.
a united states that wishes to preserve rules-based trade and fight climate change.
so modernisation of our railway system is key in the shift towards sustainable mobility.
as a shadow rapporteur, i had a clear vision in working on this report to set concrete and measurable targets and to regularly assess each year whether we were meeting them and whether the business environment was actually improving.
we also need to see if the return is sustainable and if the legal safeguards have been complied with.
one is that voluntary returns should be prioritised over forced returns as they are more sustainable, less costly and less cumbersome for the states, and more apt to respect the fundamental rights of the person concerned.
eight member states use this aid mechanism to help ensure the sustainability of farmers.
the 8 billion we have managed to advance partly to next year - thanks to the work of this parliament, i want to stress this - will be an important instrument for getting the sector back on track, also in terms of respect for the environment, because at least 37% of the resources will have to be allocated to environmental measures and with an eye to young farmers with special measures dedicated to them.