the id group requested that the title of the commission statement on 'devastating forest fires in australia and other extreme weather events due to climate change' be changed to 'devastating forest fires in australia activation of the resceu programme'.
air pollution in canberra was measured at 25 times the legal limit.
the australian government is doing nothing to help reduce carbon in the atmosphere.
mr president, contrary to what some extreme voices in this parliament are claiming, it is an undeniable fact that global warming and climate change are having an incredible effect on forest fires, which do occur annually, but are now becoming real humanitarian and natural disasters.
it is therefore incredibly important that we in the european union take responsibility for the new green deal and move towards a completely carbon-free economy and society.
it cannot be, there is no way that anyone who wants to be a partner in our trade policy and access to our european market would not be a partner in the fight against climate change.
madam member, i ask you after your statement: do you not think that the european union has a bit of a split self, because on the one hand we are limiting production, imposing green certificates and high costs on our mills, on companies and we demand that they reduce co2 emissions (and good!
we import coal into the european union from australia, from russia, which means we're adding co2 to the atmosphere by taking products from countries that don't limit co2 emissions.
of course, i understand that one of them is climate change and global warming.
whilst fire and floods are indeed natural phenomena, the scale of these extreme weather events tells us something we cannot ignore: climate change is real, and it’s affecting populations everywhere.
i also remember populist media pundits and right-wing politicians, including ukip meps, denying the existence of global warming.
with ukip transformed into the brexit party, and their members now joining the conservatives, we should all worry about the uk government’s commitment to the environment.
and can i suggest colleagues check out the campaign group desmog, whose excellent research about the powerful climate-sceptic networks influencing the tory party exposes boris johnson’s personal links with rich and wealthy climate science-denying individuals and organisations?
at the same time, many of you highlighted the fact that what’s happening in australia is just the consequence of global climate change, that this situation was caused by us humans, and that we need a global effort to take care of it.
we need to make sure that the paris agreement is implemented globally by all the key powers, as mr hajšel said, and to look for ways in which we can make that important transition in europe socially fair so that we can demonstrate to other parts of the world that this is possible: that you can grow, that you can cut co2 emissions and that you can do it in a socially fair manner.
let’s consider mechanisms like the carbon adjustment mechanism or other measures to make sure that other industries in parts of the world outside europe will also try to produce as cleanly as we do in the european union.
i think that this discussion has also just reminded us of the fact that we in europe have also not been spared the dramas and tragedies brought by climate change.
the eu strategy on adaptation, which was adopted in 2013, was aimed exactly at that: to make sure that we would enhance our preparedness and resilience to the current and future impact on climate change, especially by the climate proofing of key vulnerable sectors such as those that i have already mentioned.
– even though fire has been an elemental part of australia environment, the scope of current blazes is unprecedented.
scientists agree that climate change has contributed to australia’s emergency.
they are also in no doubt that one of the leading causes of global warming is animal agriculture since industrial breeding of animals is responsible for huge co2 emissions, contamination of water and air.
there are valid concerns that this deal will have negative impacts on climate change.
a draft final report for the trade sustainability impact assessment published on 13 december warns us that greenhouse gasses emissions are expected to increase, as a result of increased production in australia and in the eu.
as a result, australia will produce more meat further contributing to climate change.
the eu wants to be a global leader that sets the environmental agenda.
we are now witnessing a real crisis and the eu must bring its trading standards in line with our climate ambitions.
the universal charger is no longer just about making life easier for eu citizens, but also about meeting the expectations of users and consumers and our shared responsibility towards the environment.
the introduction of a regulation to address this issue will bring convenience to the user, but most importantly will reduce waste in the form of electronic devices, which is estimated to be 51,000 tonnes per year in the european union.
this solution should also take into account the recent trend of moving away from traditional chargers towards wireless chargers, which will significantly reduce the environmental footprint and increase the safety of users, such as drivers and passengers.
any strategy to combat climate change, and any strategy to reduce the impact of human activities on nature, must respond to this problem in a consistent way.
i think what may have been a problem in 2014 is no longer just a matter of consumer convenience, but it's really the unnecessary waste, the thousands of tons of e-waste that is being generated.
we expect it to be implemented not only for environmental reasons, but also because it will bring real savings to the pocket of every user.
additionally, different standards for chargers result in the pile of electronic waste growing – currently it is 16 kilograms per year for each european.
for the sake of consumer rights as well as out of ecological concerns we cannot tolerate this situation any longer.
first, regain the capacity to disagree on the social, environmental and fiscal rules that are at the very heart of the european single market as an ecosystem.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the sustainable investment plan, just transition and the action plan for a social europe (2019/3014 ((rsp)).
climate change is a big and responsible thing to do.
i therefore ask the commissioners whether the european commission has consulted or intends to consult the member states on the resources, the investment costs, the specific money they will need to make the energy transition a success without compromising the energy security of each of the countries and of europe.
i did not dispute this in my speech, noting that climate care is a great and responsible task.
to do this, we need to stand up for the truth, to do the right analysis, to respond rationally to climate challenges and concerns, with people and jobs in mind.
so i'm not saying that i'm against the programme, but i would like us as europe, which wants to be the world leader in climate, to be the real leader, not just talk about having a good plan, good assumptions.
especially since the trust in the commission has already been strained, because after all, all the countries agreed in 2014 to strive for a 40% reduction in emissions, and all these targets that were presented to the commission, we are about to throw them away.
and finally, the question: when will we have a new climate law?
for a number of member states, coal and gas remain the only energy carriers on the path to climate neutrality.
and there is no way to maintain energy security without continuing to use fossil fuels.
that is why we are calling above all for technological and time flexibility in achieving climate neutrality.
for us, climate neutrality will not actually be possible until 2070. and now for a very important example.
experts say that rigid climate policies will lead to a massive blackout in europe as early as 2050. in the event of a direct threat to the vital interests of states and citizens, is it not justified to continue to use coal as a stable fuel to ensure energy security and, consequently, to invest in the modernisation of coal-fired power stations?
in our quest for climate neutrality, let us be responsible, fair and above all honest with our citizens.
madam president, sustainable finance is the cornerstone of the european green deal.
as the current chair of the itre committee, i stress the importance of adequately supporting the energy, industrial and digital transition, starting with the 41 coal-dependent regions, including oltenia and the jiu valley in romania.
we really need adequate financial resources for the transition to the production and use of renewable energy, the development of new economic models, the creation of new jobs and the retraining of existing staff.
we are making a major, world-first commitment to climate neutrality by 2050. this also entails raising the climate ambition set for 2030. such a shift will entail a profound transformation of the entire economy, not just the energy transition, and therefore far-reaching social and economic consequences.
the fund should be targeted primarily at those countries and regions facing the greatest challenges in the energy transition and which will bear the greatest costs in proportion to their gdp.
i know that gas is not climate neutral, but it is a reliable source of energy and we should think positively about it.
we really need to have investment and we need to take into account that investment in low-carbon energy sources is not discriminated against and then decarbonisation in the energy system helps decarbonisation in other areas and that's why i think we need impact studies, as was said.
i would like to conclude by saying that in all our decisions we must not forget and take into account the context of each individual country and that the energy mix is provided for in the treaty as subsidiarity.
now we need to work together towards a green and socially sustainable european economy.
we have enabling rules to guide us through this transition and we have the technical assistance to ensure that there is a strong pipeline of sustainable projects.
coming back to some of the questions which were raised in today’s debate, there were many questions raised on the overall impact of this green transition on the european economy and whether a sustainable european investment fund and the just transition mechanism are enough to deal with this.
first of all, i would like to emphasise that our studies are actually showing a moderately positive impact on the economy from transition to the carbon—neutral economy.
however, it is also the largest emitter of carbon dioxide in poland.
however, if the pis government reflects and understands that the energy transition is necessary for poles and europe, i ask the commission to allocate significant funds from this fund to the regions that need them most, namely the bolshevik and silesia regions.
i therefore thank the rapporteur for including my amendments, which have paid particular attention to the problems of access to water, climate change, poverty, the situation of disabled people and the situation of migrant children.
it is also worth noting that climate change and its consequences are also forcing people to move, which in turn can lead to human rights violations.
dangerous climate change and the demographic explosion in many regions create an urgent need to act.
the latest insinuations coming from moscow that the concentration camps in poland were built not by chance, but because the social climate was favorable, are a scandalous manifestation of ill will and arrogance.
it directly influences the daily lives of our citizens and the environment in which our businesses operate.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the eu strategy for sustainable mobility and transport: measures for 2030 and beyond (2020/2518 ((rsp)).
because people are expecting to see results rather quickly from our work on the sustainability of transport.
we know that we need to do more there in order to help create the missing links, which are not necessarily economically sustainable.
and this will have a concrete impact on sustainability and on the reduction of emissions or on internalising the externalities in road transport.
because, as was mentioned by several people here, there are so many elements which together constitute the environment for safety in transport.
we need to make it more sustainable and smart, but keep in mind that it is competitive and it has to remain as such.
you are absolutely right, because inland waterways together with transport with rail are the most sustainable modes we have.
and new progress on inland waterways is needed in terms of sustainability of the ports and the vessels and new intelligent traffic systems.
i trust that you will get involved in the work on such a sustainable transport system for the future.
it is clear that transport-related air pollution is one of the causes of climate change and that this sector must be involved in finding solutions.
there is no doubt that reducing co2 and other greenhouse gases requires the commitment of all of us: legislators, businesses and citizens.
only then will we be able to achieve climate results combined with the prosperity and protection of european businesses.
a key component of this is the development of a fair and sustainable mobility strategy.
the first is the proper understanding of sustainability.
sustainable development has an ecological component, but also an economic and social dimension.
the strategy should therefore focus on the impact of measures on jobs and competitiveness, alongside climate ambitions.
to make these things sustainable, we need all the green technologies.
one such example is bioethanol, which, in addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, plays an important role in rural development and improving economic competitiveness.
however, transport today generates air pollution, noise, congestion and road accidents.
the sector already represents almost a quarter of europe’s greenhouse gas emissions and its emission footprint is rising.
likewise, the eu’s satellite navigation systems contribute to reducing emissions, for instance in aviation and road transport.
as part of this new strategy, the cities and citizens have an important role to play, through sustainable urban planning and addressing mobility demands and infrastructure.
– the overall challenge of the european mobility and transport agenda was always to enhance the system’s sustainability and competitiveness while satisfying the evolving mobility needs of society.
madam president, the energy interconnection projects between portugal and spain and between spain and france, which would enable portugal to export natural gas to europe, have been removed from the european commission's list of priority projects.
these projects were championed by the commission itself and were given the status of projects of common interest, taking into account their role in ensuring europe's energy security.
given that at present some ten european countries are 75% dependent on russia for their natural gas supplies, the withdrawal from the list of priority projects is in itself contrary to the interests of the european union's energy security and i would very much like the european commission to explain why it has done so.
i would therefore like to ask the european commission to explain these two issues, namely the reduction of the european union's energy dependence on russia, which would be easily overcome if interconnections across the iberian peninsula were to take place, and the cohesion funds, which are obviously fundamental for the cohesion countries.
the commission's work programme is basically putting the right emphasis on the need to make the european union and our economy stronger by protecting the climate and tackling the environmental crisis at the same time.
madam president, commissioner, we want to become the first continent to be carbon-free by 2050 and the first continent to be sustainable and innovative in environmental protection.
the european court of auditors estimates the needs for the environmental transition at over €1 billion per year.
we cannot, on the one hand, fight for the environment and, on the other, continue to sign completely insane trade agreements with regions on the other side of the world.
for example, to send meat 10,000 kilometres away when the european market is saturated is an environmental aberration.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, as i was able to remind you yesterday, in this house and on many occasions, the climate emergency is here.
it's not here for 2025 or for 2030. action on this climate emergency must be taken now.
this sector accounts for 30% of greenhouse gas emissions.
it is the only sector in europe that is not reducing these emissions.
our citizens have expectations about sustainability, social rights and a fair economy.
we will only maintain this if we continue to fight hard for a fair, free and sustainable europe.
i therefore call on the commission not to look for alternative themes at this particular time, not to waste energy and precious time obsessively looking for violations of the principles of democracy and the rule of law where they have long been present and not threatened.
we should concentrate our time and energy on facing the real problems we face as the european union, rather than resorting to stigmatising certain countries within the community at all costs.
we will certainly discuss the important issues of security, environmental issues that we face, economic relations and others.
creating a business-friendly regulatory environment is a long-term objective of the european union.
to ensure that such enterprises prosper, it is important to create a good business climate, keep the tax burden within reasonable limits, facilitate their joint participation in public procurement procedures, reduce the administrative burden and strengthen lifelong learning and make it available to their employees.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's environmental policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's environmental policy.
one of the commission's main objectives is now to set up a climate-neutral plan, which is extremely ambitious.
we need to support smes to get involved in new initiatives, innovation, green technologies, environmental education and the development of the circular economy.
the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the sustainability of jobs in smes are becoming a problem.
we must therefore do everything we can to support these companies and their activities so that they can operate in a fair competitive environment.
in poland, we have introduced the 'business constitution', which is the foundation for changing the legal environment for companies, and the 'simple language' initiative in offices.
better law means sustainable development and the well-being of every citizen of the european union.
the list is the result of 18 months of consultation with various stakeholders, including representatives of consumer and environmental organisations.
opponents of this list should simply respect this result, especially since the data on energy production is unambiguous.
according to a new study by the think tanks agora energiewende and sandbag, coal-fired power generation in the european union fell by 24% in 2019. about half of the energy production has been replaced by renewable energy sources, but the other half has been replaced by gas.
their energy basket can't be changed overnight.
furthermore, britain's competition with the eu must be open and fair, which means guaranteeing equal standards in social protection, environmental protection, taxation, state aid, consumer protection and climate.
the new eu-africa strategy must be adapted to the changing political and environmental situation.
we can't forget about the climate action.
the european union should continue to support the african renewable energy initiative.
i have to say that i’m confident in our ability to build a new strategic and fruitful partnership with africa which is focused on sustainable development.
only together – only together – we can create sustainable safe and peaceful communities in which our planet can recover and all of us can learn, work, grow and build fulfilling lives.
to tackle the root causes of migration, we must first of all help to create security in african countries, and contribute to poverty eradication, job creation and, in short, sustainable development.
the new comprehensive eu-africa strategy should offer a solution to tackle the drivers of migration and contribute to sustainable development in africa, both economically and socially.
i hope this huge resource will be able to make a real difference in sustainability in africa.
let us ensure that the strategy is consistent with development policies, complementary to the new cotonou partnership agreement and contributes to the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
we also face new challenges, such as climate change, which will affect migration policy-making and humanitarian aid.
we need to work together to protect the environment, including access to clean water, renewable energy, and to ensure broad access to education.
where illegal trade in cats and dogs is identified, it is therefore not due to a lack of legislation but because the legislation that is in place is not properly enforced by the member states, and this is where we need to invest a lot more energy.
together we can do more, in climate policy, in security policy, in research, in new technologies, in the fight against cancer and so on.
in my view, the old priorities remain relevant: the common agricultural programme, too, cohesion cannot be missing even if we add priorities such as, of course, the ecological pact.
in my country, the top ten capital, investment, in all areas, from banking, energy, commerce, are the ones who are net contributors, so they have a market at their disposal.
the evidence is there: the added value, the economies of scale in relation to things like cap, cohesion, climate change, erasmus, research and so on.
moreover, we should also work together towards a better outcome for a budget that is able to deliver on our common strategic agenda for europe by focusing on, first, equipping ourselves with the means to deliver the green deal for climate neutrality, and, second, ensuring new own resources are created, for example plastics and ets to help finance european public goods.
many of you have mentioned examples – climate, borders, digital, erasmus, defence, you name it – and therefore the finnish negobox is not yet the finish.
i have been travelling to many member states, participating in many meetings and conferences during the past couple of weeks, and i believe there can be a consensus amongst member states, even already next week, provided there is some goodwill and energy and – may i say and this is very important – that, in particular, bigger, leading member states become more active and work for a deal.
as chair of the committee for industry, research and energy of the european parliament, i am particularly concerned about an eventual cut in the horizon europe budget.
proper investment in digital research and innovation will be critical for increasing the global competitiveness of europe’s industries while helping them to achieve carbon emissions reductions in line with our climate—neutral objectives.
europe needs to support uptake of innovative technologies in relation to the development of co2 absorption capacities, develop innovative negative emissions technologies, and enable digital technologies such as artificial intelligence, 5g and supercomputing in order to better design climate and environment policies.
social programmes such as helping children at risk of poverty, tackling youth unemployment, research and innovation, digital transformation and environmental and climate change investments (european green deal) are particularly relevant in this regard.
this vote is very good news for many countries, because gas is a very necessary and extremely sustainable energy source for many countries, including post-communist countries.
and there's the gas investment that's helping these countries, these post-communist countries, to get out of the very difficult issues of the old energy system.
with this vote, the european parliament has shown that it is possible to reach a common understanding of the starting points of the different european countries and energy responsibility.
thanks to this vote, gas connections between poland and the czech republic, poland and slovakia, poland and ukraine, poland and norway, baltic pipe will continue to be financed, and gas systems related to liquefied gas will be built and will represent poland's energy independence.
viruses, climate disasters, environmental disasters -- do they care about borders?
i hear many of you argue for a new deal on migration and asylum to be presented soon – arguing for the importance of getting out of the impasse that we have been in for many years in council – and for agreement to be reached on a sustainable common european migration and asylum policy with the right balance between solidarity and responsibility.
i have been in dialogue with all 27 member states – this has involved a lot of travelling but was before the coronavirus, so it was easier – and i have lots of dialogues with parliament, and i hope for more good dialogue to find a solution that is sustainable for a common european approach, because this is what we really need.
we keep forgetting that migration is a manifestation of inequality, whether it's about economic development, security, respect for human rights, or the threat of natural disasters and climate change.
the commission is facing three challenges: protecting the rule of law, tackling the climate crisis and tackling the migration crisis.
but viruses, climate catastrophes do not know the notion of a nation state, they target all equally.
and for that i really would like to thank all of you: you honourable members of this parliament, for your energy, for your patience and also for expressing what the citizens that you represent feel in your member states.
we need a marshall plan for the future of europe, which will be more solid, which will be sustainable, clean, digital and, as many of you said, more resilient.
the commission is also aware of the problems of the environment.
and there will be more and more of them, because the pandemic has not stopped the climate catastrophe.
the eu's most important task now is to show solidarity with its member states, even if it means postponing pre-crisis projects on, among other things, climate policy.
new taxes can be a source of revenue: a digital tax on financial transactions, carbon footprint or production from third countries.
we should not waste it.
i therefore agree that the reformed mff and the european recovery strategy should be based on the principles of economic cohesion, social dialogue and the transition towards a resilient, sustainable, socially just and competitive economy.
without solidarity between peoples and between states, they said, there would be no sustainable future for europe.
yes, we must rise to the challenges of the 21st century, define the new rules of a community based on cooperation, on trade and new rules, on fair trade, on peace, the environment and the social.
we have digitalisation, globalisation, a growing nationalism, climate change.
first of all, it should be a people and planet centred recovery from the multiple crises that europe is currently facing – the social inequalities, the climate and biodiversity crises, the public health crisis.
it is high time we used all the instruments at our disposal to create the most ambitious social, economic and environmental transformation the world has ever seen, and this must ensure that no one is left behind.
i hope that we will all learn from the experience of this crisis and work towards making europe more resilient to similar or any other potential future crises, especially in protecting our supply chains, diversifying and bringing back to europe end production of essential strategic goods and food in order to ensure europe’s self-sustainability.
on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the eu, we are facing the most difficult situation since 1950. the coronavirus pandemic leaves us with thousands of deaths and an economic depression unlike any since 1929, adding to the challenges we've faced in the last decade: climate change, aggressive geopolitics, migration crises, digital challenge, brexit and the election of trump in the us, among others.
on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the eu, we are facing the most difficult situation since 1950. the coronavirus pandemic leaves us with thousands of deaths and an economic depression unlike any since 1929, adding to the challenges we've faced in the last decade: climate change, aggressive geopolitics, migration crises, digital challenge, brexit and the election of trump in the us, among others.
the first one, yes to the digital transition, of course; yes to the ecological transition.
mr president, you may have seen - you all have seen - when you drive here from zaventem that during one of the nights of the lockdown an environmental minister from the brussels region has taken a lane away from the rue de la loi.
i very much appreciate that mr weber, ms garcía pérez and mr cioloș supported this approach and i would like to reassure you that we know that the success of the results – if we invest the money in the right areas, and we definitely want to do that – we fully realise that if we want to modernise the european economy, we have to invest in green, sustainable technologies.
we will be following carefully how other countries and powers on this planet are respecting the paris goals and if they are really reducing the carbon footprint of their products and their economy, and we will be ready to proceed if necessary with a carbon adjustment tax which, again, could be revenue for the european budget.
the negotiations on the proposal must now take place under the urgency recognised by the croatian presidency, so that it can immediately address the needs and requirements of citizens, workers and businesses, ensure social cohesion and foster rapid and sustainable recovery and development.
i also welcome the historic decision to finance the debt by allowing the eu to borrow on its own in the financial markets, including through bonds, and to finance the debt with new own resources such as carbon and digital taxes.
it contains concrete proposals and objectives historically dear to the five star movement: green new deal, energy transition, and digitization.
as regards the objectives of the recovery facility, the development of the missing transport and energy infrastructure, in particular in the central and eastern european regions, should be considered a priority alongside the transition to a green economy and digitalisation.
in addition, the green deal targets mean that farmers are faced with the need to meet higher, costly climate requirements.
the important thing is that we are not looking to restore the pre-covid-19 situation but to place a new emphasis on recovery through new technologies, digitalisation, sustainable environmental policies and measures, and ensuring the sustainability and independence of key sectors of our economy.
thank you very much, madam president, for your enthusiastic and positive energy.
the president has outlined a vision for a new generation of the european union, based on the drive for ecological and digital transformation, among other things, but do we know what europe will look like in a few months?
for instance: in response to green deal exigencies, significant resources will apply to the promotion of clean energy applications, like the creation of a million charging stations for electric cars.
energy), health, new technologies and companies from key industries, in poland, among others, the furniture sector.
we have also proposed guidelines on the safe resumption of tourism services across the entire ecosystem, such as in hotels and restaurants, or for tour operators.
it provides a unique window of opportunity for funding in transport, tourism, automotive, aeronautics, and ship manufacturing, as well as all other industries needed to ensure sustainable, resilient and affordable connectivity for 2020 and beyond.
in addition, the sustainable infrastructure window has almost doubled in size in our proposal and now has a eur 20 billion guarantee which can stimulate private investment in sustainable transport infrastructure and fleet renewal.
i am sure that investment in sustainable transport systems will be high on the recovery agenda of member states, as this is mentioned in almost all country reports of the eu semester on which the national plans will have to be based.
all these instruments will continue to support our priorities of sustainability and digitalisation — the focus of our upcoming strategy in transport communication.
the coronavirus changed a lot, but not the need for smarter sustainable mobility.
80% of the cef budget for transport is already contributing to climate action.
for the entire mff and the next generation eu we propose an overall target of 25% climate mainstreaming.
we need a european passenger guarantee system and, very importantly, we need a new european tourism strategy that is sustainable and smart in the long term.
we have proposed that the profession, employers and workers should be given a breathing gas and then a sustainable, smart plan should be put in place to ensure that european tourism always pays off.
following the covid-19 lockdown, we must ensure a safe, sustainable and coordinated reopening of the tourism and transport sectors.
the climate crisis will not go away with the end of the pandemic, and the transport and tourism sectors must do their part to reduce our ecological footprint.
we now have a unique opportunity to re-imagine the concept of tourism and invest in sustainable modes of transport such as the train - particularly night trains - and the bicycle and its associated infrastructure.
i am calling for a plan for sustainable tourism in europe and thus a win-win-win situation: good working conditions, full cash for the providers, a healthy environment and thus a safe travel experience for the travellers.
we need real support that is not burdened with impossible climate targets.
it is logical, because to invest in a green project for a sustainable future that is beneficial for all makes sense; because infrastructure investment is needed for economic growth; because future generations would like to know where the money we are spending today went.
by the end of the year, you will receive our strategy for sustainable and smart transport.
but the future cannot be but sustainable and smart.
so also when we are talking about tourism, i think, for tourism itself, the future has to be sustainable, and this is a debate we will have to have, because i don’t want to forget about that.
we must also develop a roadmap for sustainable tourism and travel by focusing on the creation of a non—toxic circular economy, urgently pushing the aviation and maritime industries to cut emissions, investing in digitalisation, and investing in sustainable tourism schemes for businesses – particularly smes, which must be guaranteed immediate access to liquidity and support.
that would not only broaden the number of destinations and help the local hospitality sector, but it would make european tourism more sustainable and balanced, stopping over—tourism at certain locations.
it plays a unique role for the health of our planet, our diversity and our climate.
the environmental dimension of these challenges is closely interconnected with fundamental socio-economic factors, as well as issues such as widespread poverty, corruption, human rights abuses, stability and security.
territories of indigenous people and local communities in the amazon overlap to a very large degree with the world’s best-preserved biodiversity and ecosystems.
tackling deforestation in the amazon is essential not only to fight global biodiversity loss and climate change, but also to achieve sustainable development and poverty eradication.
in line with the ambitions set out in the european green deal and the new eu biodiversity strategy for 2030, the eu is fully committed to tackling deforestation.
at the global level, the eu will push for an ambitious post-2020 global biodiversity framework to ensure that by 2050 all of the world’s ecosystems, including forests, are restored, resilient and adequately protected.
the global framework should include specific targets for halting the loss of primary forests and for preserving ecosystems’ health, in line with the proposals in the eu biodiversity strategy.
we will continue to support action against deforestation and forest degradation as a part of the implementation of the paris agreement, including through continued commitment to raise the ambition of forest competence, of nationally determined contributions and continued support to the international initiative on reducing emissions for deforestation and forest degradation.
to tackle the issue of deforestation, we also need to engage more with the private sector, especially with the eu, to get stronger commitments from their side on sustainable sourcing.
as announced in the biodiversity strategy, the commission will also put forward a new initiative in 2021 on sustainable corporate governance.
this initiative will address human rights, environmental duty of care and due diligence across sectors.
human rights, including those of indigenous people, and local communities in the amazon, as well as environmental protection are at the core of the values underpinning the eu relations with third countries, including the countries of the amazon basin.
free trade agreements with countries in the region are another way to engage and promote cooperation on international commitments on climate and the environment in particular, in the context of their trade and sustainable development chapters.
the eu is addressing the root causes of deforestation through our significant development assistance to forests, land use, sustainable livelihoods and indigenous people in the amazon basin, with a total of ongoing projects amounting to eur 166 million.
protecting biodiversity and fighting deforestation requires protected areas and good governance.
this integrated sustainable development approach is at the centre of our development cooperation policy.
finally, our human rights instruments have been mobilised on rights of indigenous people and of environmental defenders, unfortunately too often at stake in the amazon region.
we are working on a new climate law in this house with commitments on climate neutrality by 2050. we’re leading as we should.
covid-19 will see the world’s emissions of carbon dioxide fall by 7% this year.
despite being told by the commission that the deal will encourage brazil and the mercosur bloc to meet climate obligations, we remain sceptical.
my last remark is as follows: i hope that the eu farm to fork strategy, the biodiversity strategy, and more importantly the review of eu trade policy just launched, will look closely at the complexity of our supply chains and the absolute contradiction between our agriculture, environment, trade and climate policy.
– madam president, i welcome the commissioner’s introduction and i have to say that i do not doubt the intentions of this commission to tackle climate and deforestation together.
it’s the largest carbon sink on the planet, and the dramatic thing is, it is changing.
if we do not act decisively, the amazon could be a net carbon emitter by 2030. can you imagine what the effect of that could be?
we have an extremely vigilant task: the bolsonaro government is using the covid—19 crisis to push through further deregulation on environmental policy.
we already know that the government blocked 30% of the national environment agency’s budget for fire prevention.
we also know that the bolsonaro administration has fired most of the directors of the environmental institute controlling illegal logging.
exactly one year ago, the european commission signed an agreement with the mercosur countries on free trade with the inclusion of a so—called binding sustainable chapter.
let me be clear: no free trade without good climate action.
if the world wants to be a partner in trade with us, it needs to be a partner in climate action.
if this room votes for air pollution, it should be silent on the amazon and other such issues.
but, gentlemen, please don't waste your time.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/91 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97).
the amazon is of enormous importance for biodiversity and is crucial for the climate and for the people and animals that live there.
if we want to save the amazon and really stop the global loss of biodiversity, then we have to act on that.
commissioner, you cannot succeed with your biodiversity strategy if your colleagues are simultaneously pursuing the old european trade policy and the old agricultural policy.
if you are in favour of a strong climate and biodiversity policy and sustainable food production, are you also prepared to say no to destructive trade agreements such as mercosur, the import of soya for animal feed, the spending of billions on environmentally and climate-damaging subsidies for the livestock industry, including the promotion of meat?
i regret to note that while the commission is announcing a legislative proposal to ensure that products distributed on the european market are not linked to deforestation, it has also continued negotiations on the trade agreement between the european union and mercosur, ignoring the legal obligation to ensure that the agreement does not lead to social, economic and environmental degradation and violation of human rights.
the last time we talked about this was last september, when we were thinking about how to stop the fires in the rainforest, which is called the lungs of the world and is the largest center of biodiversity.
commissioner, you are right when you say that stopping deforestation in the amazon is in line with the objectives of the european green deal and the biodiversity strategy.
it's about meeting the climate and sustainability criteria, where in the negotiations, alongside the trade agreement, we can also use the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
there must be a social and ecological renewal, because we need a strong europe in a troubled world.
only if we rebuild europe in the spirit of social and ecological renewal will we be able to make our contribution in the world.
madam chancellor, i very much appreciate your strong words on european values, on the importance of solidarity, on underscoring how important fundamental rights are and the fact – which sometimes we forget in the heated debates we very often have in the council – that cohesion is the sustainable investment into the future and that the successful projects in our member states are making the whole european economy much stronger, much more resilient for the future.
that means we have to accept and acknowledge farmers in what they do, and at the same time push for better consideration of animal welfare, for the sustainable use of the land.
your speech sends a clear message that germany is committed to helping europe meet the enormous challenge of the pandemic and to building a greener, more innovative, more sustainable, more competitive and more digital europe.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy.
here too, the unequal treatment of member states in adapting to the 'energy revolution' is apparent.
the huge efforts of the government, local governments and energy companies include reducing co2 emissions and investing in renewable energy.
an example is the energy and mining complex 'turów', which since the 1960s has responded to all the objections of its czech and german neighbours by adapting to new environmental conditions.
we need to set up a genuine european health union including minimum standards and stress tests for national health systems; a european rapid response mechanism; strengthen our procurement mechanism and have a pharmaceutical strategy that ensures supply and production in europe; more funding for medical research, and ensure the principle of environmental, human and animal health.
greece will be able to contribute to the diversification of energy suppliers in the european union by increasing its autonomy.
climate change, which poses a direct and far-reaching threat to people, in particular indigenous peoples, as well as to communities around the world, deserves particular attention.
it is well known that the effects of climate change are inextricably linked to the enforcement of human rights.
it is in our common interest to conclude an agreement quickly so that the new multiannual budget is operational from 1 january 2021. the union must provide itself with the means for a sustainable recovery to support the citizens, businesses and regions most affected by the crisis.
poland and hungary, and all countries, are for the rule of law, just as they are for clean air, clean water, and a good climate.
how can we sign off on cutting the just transition fund, which is supposed to be used to build a practical goal of climate neutrality by 2050, and say that's our priority?
investing in research, climate policies and the rule of law, that’s new europe.
i therefore say very clearly: we as the european parliament are in favour of: no decision without the european chamber of citizens, no money in violation of european law and our values, withdrawal of all cuts at the expense of our common objectives in education, research, security, climate investment and social cohesion, introduction of a rule of law mechanism and of own resources to a binding repayment plan with corners and edges.
this is solidarity and a better answer to a crisis than in 2008. however, when it comes to the mff, which is supposed to make europe more resilient, more social, more modern and climate-friendlier, this is bad news for the next generation and not historic.
others simply require more time because of the complexity, if i think of the carbon border tax and the corresponding mechanism.
it is difficult to accept a significant reduction in the amount of money invested in climate protection, research, education and health.
over the next seven years, the european union and its member states will spend more than €500 billion to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. the agreement is a significant contribution to the objectives of the green deal and is the world's first green deal crisis management package.
it is also a positive step that member states can access significant amounts of resources to meet their 2030 and 2050 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
this will allow member states to design their energy mix in an economically and socially sustainable way to support the green transition.
in order to achieve climate ambition and to use financial instruments effectively, it is also worthwhile to take into account good practices in the member states.
hungary is a good example of this, as it has committed itself to a clean, smart and prosperous energy policy.
as a result, it has been able to reduce emissions and lower energy prices for households, while maintaining a growing economy over the past decade.
at the same time, they have upheld the climate neutrality goals, which we can only achieve if we successfully transition to renewable energy.
however, besides the imminent economic challenge, which covid-19 presents, we must not lose sight of our strategic long-term objectives such as building a sustainable, socially fair and globally competitive eu economy based on science and innovations.
that is why i regret that the european council missed the opportunity to enhance core eu programs that support r&d, digitalisation, education and just energy transition.
there have been significant cuts in health, youth, culture and education, research, europe's digital and ecological transformation.
within this framework, the commission will continue to provide appropriate funding to foster a conducive and sustainable environment for lgbti civil-society organisations.
the european parliament's legal background on pharmaceuticals in the environment is very rich.
as provided for in the priority substances directive, this strategic approach should result in proposals for measures at eu or member state level to address the potential environmental impact of pharmaceutical substances, with a view to reducing emissions and losses of such substances into the aquatic environment, taking into account public health needs and cost-effectiveness.
we need to promote a new awareness of the production and post-production of pharmaceutical substances through practices that regulate not so much the legal framework under which pharmaceuticals are produced, but what happens when they come into contact with the environment.
i support most of the suggestions in the resolution, especially those which have a specific reference to supporting the development of pharmaceuticals which are less harmful to the environment and promote a more ecological concept.
likewise, the carbon tax that we're going to have from 2021 is also a disadvantage, i want to make that very clear.
but we also want to promote the social and ecological reconstruction of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the prospects for shipping are truly frightening: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the objectives of the treaty.
that is why i would like to congratulate mrs paulus on the excellent work she has done on this regulation which goes beyond adapting european legislation to the requirements of the imo for a fuel consumption data collection system, but makes the voice of this parliament heard loud and clear and calls for a binding 40% reduction in annual co2 emissions from ships by 2030. but it does not stop there, because shipping, shipping, not only damages the climate, but also pollutes the air we breathe, with its dangerous emissions of sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, putting public health at risk.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from shipping.
but if we want to achieve ambitious climate goals - and we do, including avoiding dangerous tipping points in the climate system - then everyone has to do their part.
that is why i am glad that there is broad agreement here in the house that we are tackling shipping and that we want to include it in the emissions trading system.
we will see on wednesday that an impact assessment is not necessarily bad for the climate, and that is why we want an impact assessment here.
madam president, today we are discussing the system for collecting data on greenhouse gas emissions from shipping and its adaptation to the new international imo regulations.
but above all, today's debate serves to shed light on one sector, the shipping sector, which is one of the very few that does not have a timetable and a stringent legislation for its decarbonisation; when, moreover, it represents 2.3% of all global emissions.
that is why we are calling today, among other things, for the urgent inclusion of this sector in the eu's existing emissions trading system and for clear limits on the access of the most polluting ships to our ports.
because if we don't, we can compromise the whole climate goals and the paris agreement and at the same time undermine the efforts that are already being made by many other sectors in europe.
it’s inspiring to see that this parliament remains committed to tackling emissions in the maritime sector.
together with you, the commission wants to ensure that the maritime sector duly contributes to our climate objectives.
the commission has doubts that the european reporting rules for shipping emissions are the right place for some of your proposals, but the commission does stress again that it will work vigorously on extending the eu ets to cover maritime, as well as on other initiatives to reduce maritime emissions.
importantly, we will continue to take due account of the proposals in this parliament for the european reporting rules for maritime emissions and the reform of european emission trading.
the upcoming climate target plan for 2030 will show this ambition, and the commission looks forward to continuing to work with you.
the integration of maritime transport into the eu ets, the reduction of co2 emissions from ships by 40% by 2030 and, finally, the maximum reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from vessels in port are the most ambitious challenges facing european shipping today.
this is also a necessary contribution by the maritime sector to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the european economy, which aims to achieve full climate neutrality for europe by 2050. however, it should be borne in mind that a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the proposed regulation on issues such as the competitiveness of european maritime transport and employment in the maritime sector is needed for these solutions to be implemented.
equally important is the availability of advanced technologies to reduce emissions effectively.
climate action is not only necessary for the planet, it is also an opportunity for the european economy, especially in global markets.
the commission's president has rightly called for climate neutrality as soon as possible!
we therefore need a review of the impact assessment and the climate targets in two years' time at the latest, and almost more importantly: our smes need freedom for innovation, not technology bans or restructuring quotas, but market economy and emissions trading.
we're talking today about climate change, supply chain law, new taxes and levies.
we cannot always just subsidize and regulate, we must also allow companies freedom of action, especially in the crisis and especially on the subject of climate protection.
today you're making a great case for climate policy.
you've made important announcements today, like the minimum wage directive, or your climate ambition, with the 55% target in 2030, which we celebrate.
but i also have to tell you that, for climate ambition to be real, we need the legislative regulations to clearly exclude that the money from the recovery fund is going to be used to invest in fossil fuels or polluting energy.
mr president, mrs von der leyen, we are both the first generation to suffer the effects of climate change and the last generation to be able to remedy it.
so climate justice must be met with social justice.
the reduction in emissions by 2030 is minus 65 percent, in line with cop 21. the commission has already proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive.
the climate battle is the jobs battle.
so let's give ourselves the means to win the climate victory.
let us all work together to make europe a climate leader.
as president pedro sánchez has said, these reforms must be developed in conjunction with regional and local authorities and are designed to strengthen public health, the digital and ecological transition, as well as social and territorial cohesion and gender equality.
we must now be able to respond faster to shared challenges and we must have common solutions and protocols that work first of all to preserve our single market under the schengen area, to ensure joint procurement becomes the norm, to safeguard our environment and fight climate change, and to protect and create jobs and opportunities for a new generation looking to us for direction, and to repair decimated sectors of our economy.
we have to fight climate change.
and what's more, this phenomenon will be multiplied by climate change and other factors, and we still cannot accept the category of climate refugees.
the report on the future forest strategy takes a holistic approach and not only highlights the ecological role of forests, but also draws attention to their social aspects.
the report should be supported because, firstly, it is based on the principles of sustainable development, which promotes the ecological, economic and social functions of forests.
ensuring the sustainability of forests by improving their resilience, in particular to fire, drought, pests, diseases and other threats that may increase as a result of climate change, should be one of the main objectives of the new strategy.
failure to protect forests from logging will result in the loss of specific forest ecosystem characteristics for many years.
this can be the basis for the depletion and even loss of biodiversity typical of individual forest habitats.
and the climate change is very similar to the coronavirus crisis, which unfortunately still affects us all.
it's very clear that we all need to do more globally to prevent dangerous climate change, to prevent our children and grandchildren from living in a world where they can't control climate change.
the only argument i hear from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection in favour of the 60% against the commission proposal is that it is tactical.
we voted the first european climate law.
we have set the goal of climate neutrality by 2050. and we'll be the first continent in the world to do that.
the second point is that obviously the 2030 target must be consistent with this climate neutrality objective and here we, the environment committee in the renew group, think we can get a majority of around 60%.
a final word: adaptation to climate change is fundamental, all european territories are concerned, farmers who are experiencing droughts, people who are experiencing floods, rising sea levels on the coasts, this european law is still too weak on adaptation, that is why we have tabled an amendment to stop spending european money if we do not test the ability of the major projects we finance to adapt, to be resilient to climate change.
i hope that the whole of this house will be able to support this amendment tomorrow, which is absolutely fundamental, both for the climate, for the territories and for the proper use of public money.
yes, we promised to protect the environment, water, air, but we promised responsibility, factual and consequential.
when you read the impact assessment carefully - and it doesn't answer many questions - you'll find that it's a lighthearted talk about how unemployment will rise, how energy poverty will rise, how the price of water will rise, how the price of garbage will rise, and finally how the price of energy will rise.
our prime ministers, our presidents, have agreed in the european council that we will talk about zero emissions at the european union level.
climate law says the exact opposite.
during the pandemic, the price of a ton of carbon dioxide almost doubled.
talk to them, work out the greenhouse budget with them.
not only do we think that they are the only ones responsible for implementing the biodiversity strategy, the farm-to-table strategy, but we also make them count, we make them hire accountants and increase red tape.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a 65% reduction in emissions by 2030 would save the european union more than eur 10 trillion in avoided environmental damage.
how many floods and landslides, like those that have occurred in recent days in piedmont, liguria, lombardy and valle d'aosta, do we have to witness to understand that the climate crisis is ongoing and that we must act now?
the european climate law we are about to vote on must be ambitious and courageous.
investing in a zero-carbon economy today can create millions of jobs: 18 million worldwide according to the ilo.
we are supporting today the world's most ambitious plan to combat climate change by significantly reducing emissions here and now.
we are witnessing, alongside the fight against climate change, a global, not just a european, industrial revolution.
we are voting today on a climate law that speaks to the goals we want to achieve, but we cannot forget that it is only part of the european green deal, which must be the driving force of our economy.
climate action should be one of the eu's priorities.
in 2014, the european union set a target of reducing emissions by at least 40% by 2030. it only agreed on the rules for achieving this goal a few years ago, and we have expertise on the european commission's website that says it will be difficult to reach 40%.
we need to speak like serious politicians, not like youth climate strikers.
let's talk about the costs of climate policy and the victims of climate policy.
there are countries that will do the climate change at no cost, and there are countries that will do it with minimal effort.
the citizens of karditsa, fethiye, macedonia, crete, know better than anyone how great is the need to tackle climate change, to boost sustainable development, sustainable food, sustainable transport, change in buildings, new breakthrough treatments in medicines.
it is our duty today to give the european citizens and the world community a modern, realistic, development-oriented climate legislative framework.
i think almost everyone in this room agrees that we want to provide ourselves and our children and grandchildren with clean air, clean water and a safe environment.
there is no doubt that we need ambitious climate policy goals and a strong commitment from all europeans to achieve them.
well, if there’s one thing that’s consistent over the last year – even in the middle of the pandemic – a large majority of our citizens want us to act to face the climate crisis.
it is the citizens who are asking this of us: even in the middle of the pandemic, when they’re very much worried about their health, when they are very much worried about their jobs, they still see the climate crisis as something they want us to act upon.
i am quite sure that xi jinping saying that china will be carbon-neutral by 2060 is a consequence of what we’re doing, and we need to convince others.
the fact that south africa has now said: ‘we want to be climate-neutral by 2050’ – that’s huge for a country like south africa.
a final point on using carbon sink.
look at what’s happening with biodiversity in europe.
carbon sink is diminishing in europe.
we need to look after the situation of our grasslands, our peatlands, our forests, and in that context, i believe it is wise to include carbon sink in our targets and to make sure we increase the health of our natural environment.
– madam president, i would like to thank executive vice—president timmermans for introducing this new chapter for the eu to become climate neutral.
i would like to paint a picture, inspired by a young climate activist who doesn’t need to be presented.
i would say that we have a big majority who see the necessity of doing more and who see that it’s not a sustainable way to keep giving subsidies to a system that is old.
european climate law is a legal act that sets the path for the european union to achieve full climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest.
but a radical reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is absolutely necessary to stop climate catastrophe.
there is no doubt that the fight against climate change today must be fought on many fronts, and climate neutrality will not be achieved by european climate law alone.
the european commission has already announced, among other things, the revision and expansion of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, the tightening of carbon emission standards for road vehicles, further support for the development of electromobility, and the improvement of energy efficiency and renewable energy policies.
only then can we reconcile climate protection with the socio-economic challenges we face today.
european climate law is one of the flagship elements of the european green deal and as such should be characterised as the highest legislative standard.
thirdly, as a member of the agri committee in the european parliament, i do not support the introduction of a climate-related greenhouse budget, which would burden all sectors, including the agricultural sector.
farmers will be burdened not only by the new ecological requirements of the farm to fork strategy and the biodiversity strategy, but also by greenhouse gas emissions requirements.
we must not forget that agriculture is a carbon emitter, but also a significant carbon sink.
for the reasons mentioned above, i voted against the report on european climate law.
these are just some of the effects of the climate crisis.
according to a unep report published in 2019, achieving the 1.5°c target of the paris agreement as the desired state will require the eu to reduce emissions by at least 65% by 2030. scientific studies clearly show that the effects of an increase in average temperature of even 0.5°c above 1.5°c would be incomparably more severe.
mr vice-president, there are cluster bombs in nagorno karabakh, there are civilians being killed in nagorno karabakh, there are turkish-funded fighters who came from syria to nagorno karabakh, and if we have the first impression that turkey is confronting russia in the region, in the end turkey and russia serve the same goal: limiting the diversification of the european union's energy sources.
the conflict claims lives of innocent people, hampers the development of the whole region and threatens european energy stability.
the proposal for a multiannual financial framework and the eu's recovery plan do not respond to today's needs, and the strategy for a sustainable and digital europe published in march does not take account of the current economic situation.
this is a potential that europe cannot afford to waste.
before the vote, i would like to give the floor to mrs jytte guteland, who will be speaking in accordance with rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure, on the referral to the committee responsible for the interinstitutional negotiations and on the report on european climate law.
to respond to this challenge from the community paradigm, which is to treat and care for the chronic patient without separating him from his own social and family environment.
– madam president, i think it is kind of strange: we are few here because this is a digital debate, and yet the energy and the enthusiasm is to be felt.
there is no time to waste, so i am urging the commission to act as fast as possible.
this is how we can create an ecosystem of trust, so that citizens do not feel estranged to a society that they have seen in the movies and found fascinating, but never ever wanted to live in.
this is a step forward, but it's too small to say that we're actually able to make ourselves safe in our environment.
and then there are global challenges: climate change and pandemics.
it is not just about supporting and promoting rural areas and achieving ambitious environmental and climate goals, but above all about ensuring food security for us europeans.
i agree with the need to increase the environmental and climate ambition of the cap.
my home country, finland, has one of the most trusted police forces, yet we just saw the police using pepper spray against non-violent climate protesters.
to me, this is painful news because i started my political activism in the street as a climate activist.
and while it is impossible not to agree with the summit's conclusions on, for example, coordinating the measures taken by the member states in response to the covid-19 pandemic, it is already with the conclusions on climate change that it seems that the european commission's persistence in its aberrant, in my opinion, efforts to raise the 2030 reduction target to at least 55% is a complete disconnect of commission officials from the reality of today's global economy.
no one in china, the u.s., argentina, brazil, india is paying attention to climate change as their industries and economies struggle with the effects of covid-19.
– madam president, the debate this morning reflects the deep crisis we’re in and the complexity of the relationship between the health dimension, the economic dimension, the social dimension and the environmental dimension.
the second thing is that there is a strange contrast between economic policy here and social and environmental policy on the other side.
at the same time, however, all of them are calling for sustainable growth.
what is sustainable growth?
sustainable growth is socially and environmentally sustainable.
how can we achieve this if economic policy does not take account of what is socially acceptable and what is necessary in environmental policy?
you can either understand that because you haven't understood it yet, or because you don't really care about the sustainability of growth.
this is extremely difficult from the point of view of competition policy, because in the future companies will only be competitive if they are sustainable, otherwise there will be no competitiveness.
and so, for example, the co2 reduction target that is being pushed right now as part of the climate transition, the reduction of co2 by 2030 to 60%, will hit my country's economy, among others.
written declarations (rule 171)
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs delara burkhardt on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on deforestation (2020/2006 ((inl)) (a9-0179/2020).
also, forests play a central role in our biodiversity strategy for 2030. they are a key focus of our work and, as you know, with commissioner wojciechowski i am preparing a forest strategy which updates the previous one and will take into account the recent resolution adopted by this parliament.
on social aspects and the impact of deforestation on indigenous peoples, yes, the environmental dimension of global deforestation is closely interconnected with fundamental socio—economic factors – with poverty, corruption, human rights abuses and stability.
– global preservation of forests and preventing their degradation are some of the biggest sustainability challenges of our times, without which the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the paris agreement and the green deal cannot be achieved.
in light of the current global challenges, like the climate emergency and growing trends towards authoritarianism, where women and girls are the most impacted, the need for a gender-based eu foreign and security policy becomes more urgent than ever.
and climate change is often the cause of the erosion of these rights.
how can we talk about environmental foreign policy, about migration, without taking gender equality into account?
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the state of the energy union (2020/2825 ((rsp)).
– mr president, i am honoured to present to you today the state of the energy union report.
every year, it’s an opportunity to take stock of our energy policy and assess whether we are on track with implementing the energy union.
the 2020 report is the first one since we launched our new sustainability and growth strategy, the european green deal.
a well-functioning energy union is the necessary basis to deliver our climate commitment by 2050. together with this report, i presented three key initiatives on 14 october: the renovation wave, the methane strategy and the commission recommendations on energy poverty.
the initiatives of the 14 october energy package are important stepping stones to reach our 2030 climate target plan.
they will make sure that we seize the significant decarbonisation potential of buildings and address energy poverty in order not to leave anybody behind in the clean energy transition.
national energy and climate plans (necps) will also remain an important tool in achieving the minimum 55% reduction in greenhouse gases.
together with the state of the energy union, we also published a detailed assessment of the plans of each member state.
our analysis shows that each member state still has some work to do, especially on energy efficiency.
but overall we are heading in the right direction and the plans demonstrate that europe can meet ambitious climate targets.
the commission will ensure a clear and inclusive follow—up of those plans, including on the progress of implementation and the need to revise the level of ambition of necps to reflect a higher carbon emission reduction target for 2030. let me now go back to the state of the energy union report.
this report provides an overview of the progress of the energy union across all its dimensions.
first, we know that delivering the higher climate ambition in the energy sector is a genuine investment challenge.
the state of the energy union report maps out the funding opportunities offered by the recovery and resilience facility and other eu instruments.
in particular, the annual sustainable growth strategy identified three energy-related flagships – clean energy technologies, renovation and sustainable transport – where member states can focus their national renovation plans.
the report, however, shows that national budgets devote a declining share to clean energy research and innovation.
private sector investment in energy union r&t priorities is also slowing down and i’m very concerned by this trend.
second, the report shows that the volume of energy subsidies, in particular for fossil fuels, is still considerable.
fossil fuel subsidies amounted to eur 50 billion in the eu in 2018. this is one third of all our energy subsidies.
they remain a major impediment to a cost-efficient energy and climate transition, but also to a functioning internal market.
energy subsidies should be targeted to boost the uptake of new energy technologies, to promote sustainable patterns of energy consumption, and to lower energy bills.
third, this year’s state of the energy union included for the first time a report on the competitiveness of the clean energy industry in europe.
the growth of the clean energy technology sector has significantly outpaced that of the conventional energy sector.
clean energy technologies have created more jobs and added more to gross domestic product and labour productivity.
this has been especially obvious in energy efficiency, where the number of jobs went up 17.4% between 2000 and 2017. the competitiveness report also shows that eu industry holds a strong global position in some of the key technologies, namely offshore solar energy storage, batteries and hydrogen technologies, which have a major scaling-up potential over the coming years.
it's also great that we're decoupling economic growth from energy consumption.
we're in the middle of the energy revolution.
when we discussed the same report last year, it said, and i quote, "the clean energy package forms a credible path to meeting its paris agreement commitments", end of quote.
why was 40% co2 reduction enough for paris 12 months ago, and even the targets for trucks and cars were positively highlighted 12 months ago, i quote, as "ambitious policies on climate mobility"?
for example, the report says that covid-19 is exacerbating the problem of energy poverty.
the pandemic and a higher carbon price?
the report says new energy infrastructure is the key to a successful energy transition, but the commission is announcing new rights of action for ngos and environmental groups.
do we want a rapid energy transition with modern infrastructure, with a big impact, positive for biodiversity, or do we want to save a bat family because an ngo lawsuit requires it?
we need faster, unbureaucratic approval processes, and we need to make the covid funds recovery fund more binding on the energy transition.
we're on the right track, but don't over-screw the climate commitment, or it'll break.
we need more renewable energy across borders.
a genuine internal energy market will make it easier and cheaper to integrate renewable energy, for example from offshore wind farms in the north sea and into european mains, thus displacing fossil fuels from our energy supply.
we need to build a competitive green renewable energy industry in europe as a whole and ensure that our green businesses are world-class and that they remain world-class.
we need to create a more integrated and efficient energy system so that citizens can have access to green and cheap energy.
the renovation wave is a really good initiative that creates jobs and combats climate change at the same time, but it has to be ambitious so that we can renovate two to three times as many buildings as we can do today.
and then we will have to revise some of the directives already on the table on renewable energy, energy efficiency, buildings and the role of buildings.
according to the international energy agency, up to half of global green investment should be directed towards energy efficiency.
i also wanted to ask about public support for energy in general.
if i read the chart correctly, germany spent almost 45 billion euros of public money on energy subsidies in 2018, of which 12 billion euros on fossil fuels, which contributed 1.2% of gdp.
france, italy, belgium also subsidise fossil fuels much more in absolute terms than, for example, poland, which is often portrayed as a country that is holding back the energy transition.
it is obvious that the energy transition is key to combating climate change and creating jobs, but i would like to ask you today about energy poverty and the refurbishment of buildings.
the european commission's strategy for energy poverty which has just been presented is a strategy which greatly improves our approach to this issue.
we know that in the poorest households in the european union, the energy bill represents almost 10% of their monthly income.
we also know from the various figures that exist that we are talking about tens of millions of citizens in the european union who live in energy poverty - there are reports that point to more than 50 million - and we know that those who live in energy poverty are mainly single-parent families, are families with many children or are elderly people who are usually isolated.
and in this sense, even if member states have to have specific measures to combat energy poverty, they are translated either into social tariffs or into the definition of critical periods where people are exempt from paying.
why does the european union not clearly define what measures are needed to prevent us from being energy poor?
mr president, the climate neutrality target for 2050 requires systemic change and involves citizens.
the eu has taken steps in the right direction and decoupled economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions.
in 30 years, the eu cut emissions by 25%, while the economy grew by 62%.
national energy and climate plans show that most member states have cut emissions according to the current reduction targets, but europe lags behind in the energy efficiency target.
we have to make it win-win-win: cut emissions, create local jobs, and make healthier homes and buildings.
renovation rates remain too low and renovations should be placed at the core of a sustainable recovery.
another big question for the energy transition is how to get private investment to support the green transition.
climate neutrality by 2050 needs investments now.
the policy measures need to support predictability and also support demand for clean energy, green products and investments.
mr president, in the biggest energy transition in our history the biggest problem is not the technology to make it happen nor is it the political will to cut greenhouse gases.
and just look at the political debates: no nuclear energy please, no carbon capture that entails fossil fuels, no biomass, no gas in a transition, no windmills in my backyard and no solar panels on agricultural grounds please.
well, altogether that is not a sustainable posture.
how can we possibly be serious in reaching our climate goals without technologies like carbon capture, biomass or nuclear?
it might not be a silver bullet but we all agree this energy carrier has enormous potential and our aim is clear: to create a new, clean produced, green hydrogen market and a long—term certainty for all parties involved, and that requires massive investments; in infrastructure, in the scale up of electrolysers, but also in carbon capture utilisation and storage, because we need to be realistic.
so, yes, in the beginning of this huge transition we will still need fossil fuels and, therefore, eu policies should support carbon capture, enable government support schemes for blue hydrogen, and i expect the commission to move forward in this direction in its energy summer package.
we have 30 years to reshape our entire energy system and we can do it, and we will fail if we demand to be perfect, but we will definitely succeed by doing it as good as we can.
mr president, just some days ago, a study was released signalling that in barcelona, the city from where i’m speaking today, air pollution still causes a thousand deaths a year, and this is largely due to the use of fossil fuels.
however, despite the broad consensus on the need to accelerate the clean energy transition and step up our efforts concerning emissions reduction, fossil fuel subsidies actually continue to increase.
this is one of the findings of the state of the energy union report.
the eu should stop subsidising fossil fuels – and should urge member states to do the same – and should instead redirect public money to finance the green energy transition.
this is all the more urgent given that, as the report points out and the commissioner said, funding of green energy research and investment is slowing.
the germans also turned to traditional energy and started a coal-fired power plant in datteln.
as you can see, energy stability and security cannot be achieved without fossil fuels.
this also applies to natural gas, which should be recognised by the european union as an important transitional raw material in the energy transition process.
unfortunately, the environmental radicalism of eu legislation is depriving member states of energy independence.
by imposing unattainable standards that impose absurd costs that exacerbate energy poverty, we are unfortunately putting people in europe in a very bad situation.
the european energy union was established five years ago, and it is therefore timely to discuss the initiative in three dimensions: achievements, lessons learned and prospects.
the results show that the energy union is a success story.
most member states have been able to reduce their emissions while growing their economies by increasing the share of renewable energy in their energy mix.
the successful achievement of network development objectives and the creation of an integrated energy market means that the european energy network is now much better equipped to deal with various shocks than in the past.
the prospects for the energy union are not so promising.
the left has turned energy policy into a religious debate.
the left-wing majority in the european parliament, by voting for an ideologically based climate regulation, would lead the union towards a future that could lead to economic stagnation, the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs and an explosion in recessionary costs.
the people of europe deserve better climate and energy policies.
one of the ones we still have to deal with is energy nationalism.
the vast majority of member states look at energy security through the lens of their borders, their economic and financial interests.
it is a shared responsibility for the citizens of the union, for their energy security.
it's a shared commitment to tackle energy poverty.
the energy union report is a perfect example of how much we need solidarity in this area.
we need a real internal energy market.
we don't need energy solidarity projects like nord stream 2. and then there's the decarbonization.
it's the human being who has to be at the center of the energy transition.
the realities of energy and climate policy are changing very rapidly.
in just the last five years, we have adopted the paris agreement and announced the green deal strategy, so it is only natural that we also have to proceed with the revision of the energy charter treaty.
mr president, the energy charter treaty (ect) has been rightly criticised.
i hope, however, that the treaty’s shortcomings do not blind us from seeing how much we need a modernised treaty to cover renewable energy investments.
the commission estimation shows that for reduction of emissions by the goals we have set, the eu needs annually eur 350 billion more energy-related investments than were made in the past 10 years.
we should recognise that in the multilateral investment treaty covering renewable energy investments, and that no other treaty exists than the ect.
with the modernised treaty we could offer private investors protection and the stable investment environment that is needed to increase investments in renewables.
it will not be easy to find an ambitious modernised treaty – unanimity is required among 54 parties to the agreement – but we have to push this and we have to convince our partners that all need an energy charter treaty that is in line with the green deal.
the commission will also need to address the definition of economic activity in the energy sector.
the transition to a climate neutral energy system requires that the use of fossil fuels should be greatly diminished and eventually phased out.
a successful energy charter treaty negotiation outcome requires consensus.
a proposal to remove the investment protection of fossil fuels from the energy charter treaty would certainly be met with fierce resistance from many of the non-eu-ect contracting parties, many of which are big fossil fuel producers.
at the same time the eu has a duty to act in accordance with its long-term energy transition and climate goals which would require that the eu-ect should only cover investments needed to support transition to a climate neutral energy system.
the energy charter treaty protects not only investments in fossil fuels but also investment in electricity, irrespective of the energy source generating that electricity, which means that it also protects investments in renewable energy sources.
therefore, the commission believes that the ect could still play a positive role in the future by supporting the investments necessary for the energy transition in particular outside of the eu if all contracting parties accept the necessary changes to the treaty.
for over two decades, the european energy charter has governed the cooperation of more than 50 countries worldwide, as well as the european union, on energy issues.
meanwhile, the european energy charter, as it stands, could protect well over €2 trillion of fossil fuel investment by 2050. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
as an optimist, i think it will change everything: international cooperation, multilateralism - which is badly damaged, unfortunately - and the fight against climate change are becoming real prospects again.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
as the rapporteur for the industry, research and energy (itre) opinion and chair of itre committee, i would like to recall the important role of the eu agencies and the role they are playing in helping to achieve policy objectives set by the legislator.
particularly important in supporting the energy transition expected in the coming years is the agency for cooperation of energy regulators, which needs substantial reinforcement.
although the work on the new financial framework has not yet been finalised, i believe that the new budget should be a strong centre for financing sustainable development, innovation, strategic infrastructure and digital transformation.
and i will say right away that we will abstain because we believe that the 60% climate targets by 2030 are unfeasible and will cost the european union a lot.
despite the increase in the 2021 budget by more than €15 billion, i have my doubts about the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2030 or the introduction of the rule of law mechanism as a condition for the ep's consent to the annual budgetary procedure.
and europe has a responsibility for chemical pollution, endocrine disruptors and even electromagnetic waves.
madam president, the health systems of the member states are facing immense challenges: the increase in life expectancy and therefore in chronicity, non-communicable diseases - cancer in particular - rare diseases, old and new infectious diseases such as covid, or mental illnesses, health inequalities between countries, between regions, between social classes, between genders, which confront us with the problem of the social determinants of health, the impact of environmental degradation - to name only the most important ones.
mr president, commissioner, two weeks ago, as chairman of the committee on the environment and public health, i sent you a letter asking for transparency on key elements of the contracts you are signing.
our health care systems have been brought back to the edge of sustainability.
now until we have found a sustainable solution, we have all agreed at least that the coronavirus affects each and every day of our lives.
and until we have found a sustainable solution it will continue to impact on our societies, on our economies and on the everyday way we live.
i heard from the chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), pascal canfin, about the importance of trust.
i want to make it very clear that we cannot achieve the dream of climate neutrality without the investment support of the countries that are in the most difficult energy situation, and those that are starting from the furthest position.
the european union is not an area of economically equal countries, also in terms of energy.
climate objectives should not be pursued at the expense of energy poverty and job losses.
the european parliament's overly ambitious climate policy will surely destabilise fiscal policy by forcing the poorer eu countries to borrow heavily.
clean ecological space is important, but it cannot cause some countries to develop faster and others to develop slower, because they simply cannot find the means to develop a modern system and modern industry.
a clean energy system based on the sun, wind, atom, hydrogen should of course play a vital role, but it could be accompanied by gas, for example.
unfortunately, solidarity, flexibility and fairness have already been trashed in climate law.
there is no european solidarity, no energy solidarity or solidarity in the pursuit of zero emissions at the level of the european union.
in the impact assessment, we have information that millions of jobs will be lost and 25% of the population will live in energy poverty.
we need to strengthen this system, give it more scope in the modernisation fund, and above all think about creating a new energy justice fund, because it will be fair, solidarity, real and closer to the citizens.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe is one of the key elements of the european green deal.
the energy transition is a huge financial burden.
anti-crisis measures must therefore be tailored to protect the climate and the environment without further damaging the economy.
consideration should be given to suspending the co2 emissions trading system and the european green deal in general for the duration of the crisis.
let us slow down the pace of the eu's ideological climate policy so that it does not lead to a disaster for which future generations will pay.
the green deal: the green deal needs to be funded, clearly, in a way that it has the greatest added value for the environment, and in a way that we bring people along and connect climate action with jobs.
the paris objectives are our benchmark, but not with the ideologically-driven proposals of the environment committee for a better world.
paris is much easier and faster with emissions trading, innovation, market economy, with an investment focus on environmental protection in the development plan.
according to the european commission, reaching the 2030 climate targets will require at least €662 billion each year.
the green deal is much more than an economic transformation roadmap for a climate-neutral europe.
for this reason, a stable environment based on taxonomy criteria is needed, and at the same time, a very pragmatic sense of a smooth transition that will allow for stable investment and accessible energy.
but it is the blueprint that will judge europe's performance, and its success can give europe global leadership for a sustainable future that we all want.
let me express my appreciation of the european parliament’s aspiration and overall support for the sustainable europe investment plan.
it is encouraging that the parliament and the commission are aligned in the stars to guide eu to the path of climate neutrality.
we are, of course, deeply aware of the stark effects of the pandemic, but as we discussed, the significant challenges of climate change will not disappear with this.
so the sustainable europe investment plan can steer the green transition in a way that supports and complements the recovery from the current health and economic crisis.
the sustainable european investment plan is well placed to encourage sustainable investments and help raise private finance to them.
if we want to address the social, economic and environmental challenges of climate change in an ambitious way, we should ensure that green investments are not financed solely by so-called environmental taxes, such as a tax on aviation fuel or a border carbon levy on imported products.
achieving climate neutrality for the european union is a very ambitious plan, especially in the current situation of the covid-19 pandemic.
the modernisation fund needs to be significantly increased or a separate fund for less prosperous member states, for example based on the energy poverty index, needs to be created.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe is the investment pillar of the green deal.
the plan aims to mobilise at least €1 trillion for sustainable investment over the next decade.
we must take advantage of it, but we must also reduce the risks, such as the increase in energy poverty and job losses.
i am against the principle of not causing serious damage to the environment, including the exclusion of support for natural gas, which is to apply in the mff instrument.
the eu will not achieve climate neutrality without a sufficiently ambitious investment plan and financial support to enable each member state to make the transition.
among the many issues that are important for ensuring the functioning of a sustainable market, consumer safety seems to be the most crucial.
products should be more sustainable, more environmentally friendly, with longer shelf life and repair capability.
smart home devices, connected to a single platform and controlled via the internet, give us the ability to control, for example, the power consumption and this has a positive impact on environmental sustainability.
on the other hand, putting all information online creates many risks, so let's use modern platforms, save energy, but also protect consumers, keeping them safe and businesses competitive.
therefore, its transformation into a digital and ecological form, taking into account the complexity of the processes must be very carefully planned and adapted to the rapidly changing reality around us.
investment in artificial intelligence, energy efficiency improvements in buildings, network infrastructure, smart sector integration, sustainable mobility, alternative fuels and modern skills for workers are essential to make progress, but it must not be forgotten that these actions will all require huge financial investments, and therefore the countries most in need cannot be left without adequate support.
europe will gradually move away from fossil fuels towards renewable energy sources such as hydrogen, wind and solar.
however, it should not be forgotten that there are countries for which coal is a significant part of the energy mix, and therefore natural gas should be strongly promoted as a transitional instrument between coal and renewable energy sources, which in the medium term will help to significantly reduce the emissions of economies and make the energy transition financially viable for them.
you mentioned the sustainable development goals - and we only have a decade to deliver on them - and facing a resource gap that will grow with the impact of the covid—19 pandemic.
we need to recognize that in africa and the middle east, churches are the social network through which we can most effectively help those in need locally, to create conditions of life that are worthy of humanity and to contribute to the sustainable development of their own communities.
the european union is the largest donor in the world, but our contribution to poverty reduction and the achievement of the sustainable development goals can be even greater if we improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the aid we provide.
with population growth and economic stagnation, hunger is becoming more common, and the effects of climate change are hitting the most vulnerable.
these include energy, telecommunications, data protection, financial services and medical devices.
i have to say, madam president, five years ago, a historic environmental and consumer scandal came to light.
if we want a world that is more peaceful, a world that is more social, a world that is more sustainable, better for people and better for this planet, mr vice-president, then the reform of trade policy that you have undertaken is central.
yes, we need the sustainability chapter, and it's loaded with sanctions.
for example, the mercosur negotiating mandate has ignored new insights such as the paris climate agreement, the un sustainable development goals and the ilo standards that enshrine workers' rights for two decades.
they should be binding in all trade agreements in the chapters on trade and sustainable development.
so we have to choose climate, we have to choose sustainability, and we have to choose workers in the trade agreements.
we need a growth-friendly business environment where companies can create new jobs.
for the green transition we need to promote innovations in green technologies by making it a priority to reduce tariff and non-tariff barriers in the wto by pushing for the resumption of the negotiation on the environmental good agreement and we need to do the same in the bilateral agreements.
as in other european policies, it is time to draw conclusions from this pandemic crisis and to give effective answers to what citizens are longing for, in line, of course, with the major priorities we have set in the union in the areas of sustainability, climate change, the digital economy and security.
we are still very much dependent on third countries, particularly in health, energy and technological matters.
the eu's trade policy will soon be dominated by a border carbon tax, a customs duty on high-carbon products imported into the union from third countries.
the idea of a cap-and-trade carbon tax is very good.
if we are putting ambitious emissions reduction targets on the eu's mining and quarrying industry, we cannot allow it to face unfair competition from those third countries that are not particularly concerned about climate issues.
this is a very important part of a just energy transition.
we therefore await the commission's legislative proposal on this tax as soon as possible, while at the same time hoping that the countries threatening to legislate on the eu budget will come to their senses, because without a decision on own resources there will also be no border carbon tax.
respect, solidarity, pragmatism are the three conditions for a serious discussion about money for citizens, for a way out of the crisis and for a serious discussion about climate law, not blackmail, not emotion, not political obsession and ideological hysteria, because that is what you are presenting today in the european parliament.
we need to talk about climate law with respect, with responsibility to the citizens.
the council says 55%, the environment agency says 40% is impossible, parliament says 60%.
and when we talk about solidarity, we also talk about how we can get to zero emissions together.
on brexit, the deal must be fair and not undermining social and environmental standards, also that is at stake during this council.
and last but not least, the climate crisis.
so this year, this december, europe needs to get its own house in order and except the 2030 higher, ambitious climate targets.
when we fight together against the pandemic, when we fight together against terrorism, when we fight together for a better climate, for an economy, for good trade, then we win in the european union.
give up this instrument, pool the decision-making process, create a directly elected senate, free yourself from hostage and ensure a summit that decides what we have negotiated, that decides what we have decided - not just on the rule of law mechanism, not just on investments in the future, but also on meeting our climate goals through the climate target of 60%, at least 55% by 2030. do what you have to do!
madam president, the european council meeting will be a decisive day where europe will set the bar in its climate efforts, and we expect nothing less than that it contains a clear and progressive commitment on a revised eu climate target for 2030. it is high time that the member states unite on a progressive target so that the european parliament and the council, as union legislators, can have proper negotiations on the necessary updates in the union climate effort accordingly.
the european parliament has already decided on revised eu 2030 target at 60% emission reduction compared to 1990. as the rapporteur from the european parliament on climate law, i urge the member states to do the same, to be constructive, listen to the citizens, listen to the science and be responsible, ensure that the european council will agree on a sufficiently progressive union climate target.
on the climate side, the green deal is our major initiative.
we want a more ambitious approach from the climate council.
i am asking all member states to include binding climate neutrality measures by 2050 in their legislation.
the reconstruction programme will one day go down in the history books as a turning point towards greater solidarity, fiscal responsibility and a common will to build a more sustainable europe.
because only by working together, with latin america, with africa and with asia -- and joe biden will be a partner -- can we turn this into the future and build a more just, a more sustainable world.
some prefer to be part of the western internet ecosystem, engaging directly or by proxy in undermining transparency and privacy, to outline their digital sovereignty while maintaining the economic benefits of connectivity.
the fight against covid-19, climate change and security will be the main topics of the eu leaders' meeting on 10 and 11 december.
today you have the lightning, it is a symbol of energy, and you will win because the energy of youth always wins, because there is hope in you, because you are europeans, and it is also a symbol of hope for the future of a free european society.
the eu has been imposing stringent environmental and climate standards for years, causing the industry to flee the eu.
mr president, the sustainability of the healthcare sector is more and more challenging.
the second aspect concerns the impact of climate change on quality of life and health.
loss of biodiversity, air pollution, and global warming are adding to the number of new infectious diseases.
ignoring the link between climate change and pandemics would be a dangerous mistake.
mr president, we’ve heard a lot about the rule of law and the values upon which the eu is founded in the past weeks and rightfully so, because those values are the foundation of our cooperation in the european union, and without a strong foundation that cooperation will never be sustainable in the future.
mr president, commissioner vălean, this report on the european year of the railways insists that policies to support this sector are a very positive tool in the fight against climate change.
if we are able to make european the national networks that have shaped the logic of investment and the use and management of infrastructure and trains, we will be taking a decisive step towards a decarbonised and sustainable mobility, as called for in the green pact.
it is up to us to ensure that the railway can continue to offer quality, safety, punctuality and competitive prices to passengers and goods who need these types of incentives and offers to move towards more sustainable mobility habits.
2021 has been designated the european year of rail, to stir the debate on the contribution of railways to the european green deal and the environment.
i can see from my region – silesia – how sustainable, innovative and safe a mode of transport rail is.
smes represent 99% of all businesses in the eu and maintaining a broad base of smes is vitally important for the economic development, wealth and sustainability of any region in the eu.
to this end, we must do everything in our power to create a business—friendly environment and boost smes’ competitiveness, a task made all the more difficult with the dual economic crisis of brexit and covid—19, but a task made all the more integral because of them.
i believe it is imperative not to impose an undue regulatory burden on smes as we may shoot ourselves in the foot by dampening innovation and potentially even slowing down our transition to a low-carbon and more digital economy.
in the new strategy for smes, the union must therefore ensure that the regulatory environment and the economic law are as friendly, reasonable, flexible and transparent as possible for smes.
at the same time, we need to consider whether the ambitious water directives, which mobilise member states to improve water quality in europe, should be modified and better adapted to a changing climate and new pollutants.
rapid population growth coupled with climate change is leading to local conflicts over water that could easily escalate into regional wars in the future.
the revision of the green deal, the climate law and the multiannual financial framework.
because these are huge investments, and we cannot -- and i'm talking about the green deal -- lead not only to energy poverty, but water poverty.
mr president, according to the european environment agency’s report published in 2018, agriculture is the main cause of groundwater’s failure to achieve a good chemical status in the eu, as it leads to diffuse pollution from nitrates and pesticides.
additionally, the european nitrogen assessment states that the total cost of nitrogen pollution in europe – the majority of which can be linked to animal farming – ranges between eur 70 million and eur 320 million annually, yet so far there are no concrete plans how to tackle the issue of water pollution linked to the agriculture sector and in particular to animal farming.
how is the commission planning to address the problem of nitrogen emissions linked to animal farming, both in the future cap and related national strategic plans and in the implementation of the from farm to fork strategy?
i would like to make sure that we do everything we can to include the issue of improving water management and water protection in the reform of the common agricultural policy, its green architecture, the field-to-table strategy, the protection of biodiversity, and in the structural dialogue we are already conducting with the member states on recommendations for their strategic plans.
and we also know that there are two important instruments, in particular through cross compliance, but also through rural financing, that help us to achieve sustainable growth in agriculture.
and when we talk about sustainability, of course, clean water and access to water are very central.
and it was precisely in our presidency of the council that we once again made it clear - also through initiatives - that the aim must be to reduce the ecological and climatic footprint of the current agricultural system, including the food system, in the european union, because we know the limits of pollution and we know the shared responsibility, especially for clean water.
in its new form, the directive is not only about water security, but also about access to it, which is a major issue, especially in the context of climate change.
ensuring access to safe drinking water is a priority, as is concern for the environment.
according to the european environment agency report (no 7/2018 entitled european waters assessment of status and pressures 2018), only 40% of all surface waters in europe are in good condition or have an adequate ecological potential, and only 38% are in a chemical equilibrium.
however, it should be stressed that the system of environmental performance indicators proposed by the european parliament should accurately reflect actual progress in improving surface water quality and provide a broader understanding of some definitions, taking into account the biodiversity and natural transformation of the ecosystem according to the one-out-all-out principle and its crucial importance, which unfortunately does not reflect these progresses.
i also believe that, in order to reduce disparities in water quality across regions, eu funds should be used appropriately, not only for new investment but also for the maintenance of existing installations, in line with environmental objectives and with the objective of sustainable economic development financed in a manner adapted to the needs.
the proposed directive is another ec step, following the plastics directive, towards a health and safety environment.
eu water is of a high standard, but new pollutants, consumer protection and the need to keep up with environmental change need to be taken into account.
we should remember that it is necessary to protect drinking water sources and thus reduce industrial pollution and human behaviour that is not in keeping with the environment.
at the same time, we will ensure that more is done on climate and environmental issues than ever before.
by accepting the outcome of the negotiations, we will ensure that the support which is important to european farmers continues on the agreed timetable and that the operating environment in the whole agricultural sector is strengthened.
i’ve also pledged that the eu recovery instrument funds to be distributed under the rural development programmes will mostly be used for measures that ensure a recovery beneficial for the environment and climate and to help our farming and rural communities to be more resilient and recover from the effects of the pandemic.
the text presented for the vote is a balanced text that will allow farmers and citizens and businesses in rural areas to continue in 2021 and 2022 to benefit from income support, from tools for market stability and from support for investments, cooperation measures beneficial to the environment, as well as from the other structural measures.
thanks to the european recovery facility, we are ready to unlock over €8 billion for rural development as early as january 2021. a package of support that will have to be made available as soon as possible by member states, so that it can really pave the way for economic recovery in the name of resilience, sustainability and digitalisation, and in line with the objectives outlined in the green deal.
at least 55% of the more than 8 billion will be allocated to young people, small farmers and, above all, to investments that promote the social and economic development of rural areas, pursuing objectives essential for an increasingly sustainable agriculture, such as the digitisation and modernisation of production tools, better safety conditions at work, short supply chains, renewable energy and the circular economy.
but in order for the sector's recovery to be able to effectively balance environmental, social and economic sustainability, at least 37% of the funds will be allocated to measures with high environmental added value, such as organic farming, reducing agricultural greenhouse gas emissions, soil conservation, improving water management and animal welfare.
i believe that the most important achievements are the extension of the mandate to two years, the multiannual commitments for the agricultural, environmental and bio-based measures, the transitional national aid and also the extension of the covid measures, to name a few.
but i do not understand why at least 37% of the sums should be earmarked for environmental measures.
it should not have been lost sight of the fact that the objective of the recovery plan was to promote economic recovery and not to ensure environmental protection, which is already the subject of the green deal.
– mr president, last week the european council reached an agreement for a new 2030 eu target for a net domestic reduction of at least 55% in greenhouse gas emissions.
while it is not in line with the latest scientific knowledge and can hardly be seen as satisfying, it is still a challenge for the eu and a step towards climate neutrality.
according to the communication on the from farm to fork strategy, agriculture is responsible for more than 10% of the eu’s ghg emissions, and nearly 70% of those come from the animal sector.
however, we have to make sure that those two years are not wasted ones if it comes to the eu climate and environmental targets, including the ones regarding improvement of animal welfare.
while parliament's success is to extend the transition period to two years and to include the recovery instrument in the legislative text, the regulation, in my view, sets an overly ambitious environmental target, as it provides that as much as 37% of the post-crisis recovery funds are to be allocated to environmental objectives.
therefore, it’s time to promote new jobs, competitiveness, sustainable and inclusive growth for driving the recovery process.
it has also been key in supporting sustainable reform processes, including the rule of law, although i have to say that progress has not been linear and it is very different from one country to another.
i think we should be proud of advancements in mobility, growing trade with the european union, and improvements in digital and energy cooperation.
we will work with our partners on five areas of resilience: economic, democratic, environmental, digital and societal.
regarding the latest context in nagorno karabakh, we have to play a more active role in the post-conflict environment.
we use them with all our energy and capacity.
you've reached a climate agreement, pursuing the ultra-environmentalist ideology.
the recovery fund's green money will be late and the carbon border tax will be even later.
reducing co2 emissions by 55% by 2030 is a contribution to achieving the eu's climate targets.
madam president, last may, the president of the commission said that sooner or later our scientists will find a vaccine against the coronavirus, but that there is no vaccine against climate change.
now this is the last chance for many countries to stop being backward countries and we need to control how governments will spend the money: if you're going to spend it on digital transition, if you're going to spend it on climate transition.
i also welcome the agreement on the 55%, on the climate.
i also want to make the link between the recovery fund and our climate ambitions, because recovery is not just about fixing our economy.
let's commit to them this perspective and make sure that that democracy and that new society will be climate resilient, that we have really agreed this for them in this european union.
in total up to eur 1.8 trillion will be spent by 2027 to make european economies more sustainable and digital, thanks to the eur 750 billion recovery fund.
ladies and gentlemen, this summit has been a major milestone in the fight against the pandemic, for economic recovery and for climate protection.
whether it’s on the economy, the recovery, climate health, vaccination, brexit – all these topics are there.
not just any way, not to do anything, because we have clear ideas about the visionary role that is ours internationally and about this climate ambition that was anchored in the month of december 2019, with our ambition to achieve climate neutrality before 2050. and then, a few days ago, there was the decision to step up our efforts to 2030, which gives credibility to this ambition and reinforces the position of the european union as a global leader in the field of climate change.
and when we face difficulties, as we do today, it is also our duty to take decisions to ensure that we can get the european union on the budgetary path, the values path and the climate path.
i conclude without triumphalism: we know the many challenges that still lie ahead of us - covid-19, climate, digital agenda, social transition - and the implications for our fellow citizens that are also linked to these topics.
i believe that the introduction of certain taxes, such as the introduction of a carbon levy, is necessary for the european union as a whole and for the member states individually, but it can only be effective as a common tax.
the hungarian left, during the budget negotiations, has been working with all its energy to harm hungary.
health, agriculture, climate, innovation, social issues and education remain at the heart of funding, and the external dimension of the eu's neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument and the solidarity and emergency reserve have been increased.
the request will be put to the vote after the vote on the commission proposal and the first vote of the day will be opened at 9.45 a.m.
the next item is the debate on the question to be answered orally to the commission by lídia pereira, marek paweł baltin, fredrick federley, simona baldassarren, pär holmgren, alexandr vondra and petros kokkalis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the eu strategy for adapting to climate change (o000075/2020 - b9-0029/20) (2020/2532 (((rsp)).
temporary drops in greenhouse gas emissions like those caused by the 2008 financial crisis and the current economic disruptions due to the covid—19 pandemic have little effect on the evolution of the planetary climate, and emissions can bounce back quickly.
the special report on global warming of 1.5° celsius issued by the intergovernmental panel on climate change demonstrates that even in a best case scenario of sustained emission limitations, there will be large stress on agri—food systems, infrastructure, ecosystems and human health.
the union was an early actor on adaptation, with the adoption in 2013 of a strategy on adaptation to climate change.
this aimed to enhance the preparedness and capacity of all governance levels to respond to the impacts of climate change and make europe more climate resilient.
efforts to measure resilience to climate change need to continue and to be upgraded and linked to a more ambitious monitoring and evaluation system.
the commission’s proposal for a european climate law provides a framework for progress in pursuit of the global adaptation goal established in article 7 of the paris agreement.
the governance will include a citizens’ dimension through the recently—launched climate pact.
adaptation action in general, and the strategy in particular, will benefit from the increased climate—related spending target in the next union seven—year budget, while the european investment bank has committed in its recently—adopted climate roadmap to support its implementation.
stakeholders will be empowered to tackle climate impacts like desertification and land degradation.
climate change adaptation and disaster risk management will be a key priority for the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund in the 2021—2027 period, with a place—based approach to improving the resilience of eu regions and cities.
in the eu member states, most vulnerability assessments are being made, and adaptations identified, in respect of agriculture, health, biodiversity, forestry, energy, oceans and seas.
the european environment agency concludes that even if the union and some countries have started to monitor the implementation of adaptation activities, it’s not possible to determine with any certainty whether decisive progress in increased resilience at union level has been achieved by 2020. while building resilience and adapting to the impacts of climate change is a challenge for all regions of the world, it’s the poorest and most vulnerable who are least able to adapt, both with the union and globally, for example because of limited resources, protracted crises or violence.
globally, the union and its member states remain the largest contributor of international public climate finance for adaptation purposes to developing countries, in particular least—developed countries and small island developing states.
water resources, forests and agricultural crops fulfil many critical productive and regulation functions upon which our societies depend, such as clean drinking water, carbon sequestration, abundant food, wood and forest products, outdoor recreation opportunities and habitat.
ensuring water, forests and agriculture can withstand a changing climate is critical to reaching essential goals, including preserving ecosystem services and not least the carbon sequestration potential of forests.
the draft resolution on a climate change adaptation strategy for the european union is a very important document for the future of the people of the european union.
i'm glad that this huge change called the green deal, led by mr. timmermans, has started, which is why, in addition to these actions that are supposed to minimize climate change, i decided to take care of adaptation to the effects of ongoing climate change that we feel every day.
the decisions we make now will be crucial to preventing the effects of climate change.
i know we're all aware of how much climate change will affect our lives and our environment.
i am sure that at this very moment in europe there are investment projects being co-financed by the european union, and i would therefore ask you to tell me whether these projects have taken account of the effects of climate change at the design stage.
if not, i would urge you and my colleagues to pay particular attention to this, as urban infrastructure can make a significant contribution to reducing the overall vulnerability of the union to climate change.
to make a positive change, we must take into account many important environmental aspects.
the investment plans of all member states and all areas that involve climate action, including research and development, must take account of our strategy.
the development of appropriate rapid response plans for climate disasters such as heat waves, floods or droughts should not be forgotten.
i would therefore also like to draw particular attention to agriculture, which also faces many challenges in adapting to climate change.
i would also like to call on all european local authorities to follow the example of european cities that have adopted local legislation to meet the european union's climate targets.
achieving climate neutrality in terms of greenhouse gas emissions requires the active participation of both the government and local authorities, as well as all sectors of the economy and society as a whole.
this will enable local authorities to be active partners for the industrial and construction sectors and, through the implementation of projects at local level, to actively support the implementation of the eu climate strategy.
mother earth is responding to human activity, so all of us - regardless of the profession we represent - need to be aware of the seriousness of the problem and work together to prevent climate change.
for climate, people and nature to be effective, at least three conditions must be met.
but we see what happens with the climate law, with article 4, which says that the strategy must be adopted by january 31. yes, until january 31st, but climate law is only in the early stages of discussion in the trilateral talks.
at the same time, climate law and the strategy for adaptation to climate change also imply changes in at least three regulations: the esf, lulucf or ets.
and let me remind you that climate law clearly says that by the end of june 2021, every regulation must be reviewed and adapted to climate law.
at the same time, there is simply no money in the general budget, the multiannual financial framework and the budget for the reconstruction of europe for a climate change adaptation strategy and for biodiversity.
environmental and health issues were particularly important last year.
preventing pollution, reducing waste and preventing diseases linked to harmful substances in food, soil, air and drinking water are key issues for europeans.
you have brought your country to such desperate straits that you are now signing agreements with china to give away your energy sector and your critical infrastructure.