in addition to the dozens of human losses we deplore, there is the loss of wildlife and biodiversity.
here in europe, we are making progress in the fight against climate change.
we have taken on the ambition of a carbon neutral continent.
at a time when the two biggest challenges we face are the digital and environmental transitions, and we have already spoken about this here today, we cannot wait any longer for this initiative from the commission which so clearly serves consumers and the environment.
we need people with skills to build housing, so commissioner, if you can, with new energy i suppose, bring europe together on this housing crisis, i think it would be very helpful.
it is also of key importance to mention that the eradication of extreme poverty is one of the priorities of agenda 2030 and the sustainable development goals.
it is a complex issue, but it is not unrelated to the social degradation in this territory, the deregulation of labour, the liberalisation of the housing or energy markets or the privatisation of public services.
worse, the current government publicly denies the impacts of climate change and actively promotes an economic and trade policy based on highly polluting sectors, such as the coal industry and the livestock sector.
as if ceta, which gives economic and political support to canada, which exploits oil from tar sands, and the agreement with the mercosur countries, which actively destroy the amazon, were not enough, europe is now moving towards another disastrous transnational climate agreement.
we have a proposal on the table from the european commission, a proposal which the european commission is reinforcing by saying that 7.5 billion fresh money will be allocated to the just energy transition fund.
so my question to the prime minister is exactly what is your... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, we agree with the european commission's statements that the energy transition fund must be fair and that the green new deal must be social.
but this is not possible if social and environmental objectives have to compete for a financial package that has been cut and if we continue to work on this double-dealing financial trick which consists of moving the same money back and forth, announcing new priorities, new acronyms, new funds, new propaganda, but making the new money available only to the militaristic and security obsession.
nor can we say that the green new deal will be social if we exclude from the just transition fund and all these policies regions of cohesion and regions that are on the front line of the consequences of climate change.
climate change creates economic and social inequalities and the european union must recognise this and act to combat these inequalities.
the regions of the union are in different states in terms of co2 emissions.
member states and regions have been investing unevenly in the energy transition.
portugal, for example, is well placed today in renewable energy because it has prioritized this ambition and has invested significantly here.
all regions need to continue to be supported in the energy transition by promoting the modernisation of their economies and the re-skilling of people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives of the green deal are to have a more developed and healthier europe, to halt the loss of biodiversity and pollution, and to reverse our management of goods and waste with a circular economy while promoting competitiveness and growth.
let us not doubt that this transition is both an environmental necessity and an economic opportunity.
the european sustainable investment plan is the investment pillar to deliver on this ambition, putting about 25% of the entire community budget at the service of this change.
public and private contributions, the definition of sustainable investments and the promotion of links between investors and new ideas and technologies are part of a strategy to position europe as a global leader in a sustainable and growing economy.
i think it is essential that we make a firm commitment to renewable energy, particularly solar energy, that this commission considers hydrogen as a serious possibility for decarbonisation and mobility and that it works to solve once and for all the problem of energy connections between the iberian peninsula and the rest of europe.
for the first time in history, the drama of climate change makes the next shift in the development model - from a fossil fuel-based economy to a decarbonized, sustainable economy - an inevitable and scheduled shift.
the european union therefore has a duty to create mechanisms that minimise the negative impact that environmental and climate change will have on the regions and sectors most dependent on carbon-intensive activities.
the just transition fund, the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the european pillar of social rights are an important triad in ensuring that the european union of the future is a social and sustainable union, capable of breaking the old cycle which, with each new leap in the development model, created winners and losers.
the international atomic energy agency continues to monitor and inspect iran's nuclear activities, and let's not forget that the jcpoa is embodied in a united nations security council resolution.
i really don't believe that it's going to be easy to build another agreement with the same complexity, dealing, in a much more complex and conflicted environment, with the current situation.
there only the international atomic energy agency can tell us how much and when it has happened.
the united nations, through its secretary-general and the human rights council, has raised serious concerns about the human rights situation in general and respect for freedom of expression in particular: assassinations, torture, arbitrary detention and other forms of inhuman treatment are mentioned by the united nations, all in a climate of widespread impunity.
over 80% of the world's biodiversity is in their care, as are the vast majority of forests.
although there are only 370 million people who identify as members of indigenous peoples, they account for almost a quarter of the planet, and are therefore the first to suffer the effects of extreme climate change and the struggle for resources.
madam president, four years ago, at cop 22, the portuguese prime minister, dr antónio costa, committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. it even said that one of its priorities was to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector.
it is thus moving forward without the support of civil society, without an environmental impact assessment, without considering the impacts on the reservoirs of the tagus estuary, without studies of tourist capacity and without studying the complementary option of beja airport.
they promote a so-called ecological pact, ignoring the failure of the growth strategies that preceded this policy and basing themselves on the same neoliberal premises, on market mechanisms, without questioning the predatory exploitation of resources that leads to the ecological imbalances we face.
– mr president, it’s a pleasure to respond to the very emotional interventions of our honourable members – especially from spain – on the disaster caused by storm gloria in front of a full house because i think that this disaster clearly gives us another example that climate change can no longer be ignored because it has become a real climate emergency.
and what other instruments can we use to help the people in such distress caused by the disasters, which unfortunately, we’ll probably see more often because of the climate emergency?
public investment is an essential condition for supporting sustainable growth.
long-term sustainability may be compromised.
we need a framework that is more concerned about the sustainability of growth, not just short—term budgetary indicators.
for example, a neural network whose goal was to distinguish between dogs and wolves learned to distinguish them, not by what normally distinguishes these two animals, but only by their environment.
better regulation does not mean less regulation, nor does it mean less protection for consumers, workers or the environment.
climate change knows no borders, and we have little time for the many things that need to be done.
we have lost the united kingdom, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, but we are still a trading power and we cannot therefore take any steps backwards in the exercise of our capacity to promote human rights, to recognise social and labour rights and, not least, to protect the environment and biodiversity.
the ecb needs to play a key role in this debate, just as it needs to play a key role in combating climate change.
it is imperative to continue providing humanitarian assistance to the population while efforts are being made towards a sustainable settlement in accordance with un security council resolution 2254. the eu's newly elected president, mr borrell, has called for the creation of humanitarian corridors and the necessary security conditions for the teams to assist the people.
we want to combat climate change: we have cohesion policy, the cap and the just transition mechanism.
if there is an institutional crisis, it will be because the commission and the council do not want to put european union money where they put their speeches, because they talk about social and environmental objectives, but that is not where they really want to invest.
we want it in foreign trade, in tax policy, in digital policy, in environmental policy, in the budget, in research, in agriculture and so on and so forth.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
this would reduce consumption and thus reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
coherence, because the climate challenge requires a substantial budget, commensurate with the challenge we are facing.
i hope it will also be a broad-based food policy programme for sustainable food, addressing the entire production chain from primary production to food waste, and aiming to make the best possible choices for the environment, the producer and human health, which will, of course, also generate a fair income for producers in developing countries and in our own country, the proper treatment of animals, healthy food and reduce environmental burdens and help to solve the problem of climate change.
are you also going to amend the cap proposal accordingly, so that it supports a sustainable food policy?
how will you ensure that food is safe and available to all with your neo-liberal policies which only promote competitiveness and open up primary sectors to global competition, which fuel unsustainable models of intensive production and agribusiness and which call into question biodiversity and the very limits of the planet?
but nobody knows what the council wants, and our response to climate, demographic, digital and international challenges has to be more europe.
it also helps to continue the fight against climate change, because climate warming and environmental concerns have not disappeared during the corona crisis.
we need a resolute response that can inspire hope in citizens and re-launch the european economy on the basis of an economic recovery plan anchored in sustainability, digitalisation and the fight against inequalities.
we cannot waste any more time and we hope that all the european institutions and national governments will be committed to making these mechanisms operational.
everyone, black, white or any other race or nationality, deserves the same chance to be able to participate and pursue happiness in our social environment.
genocide, ethnocide and ecocide were the words used by 600 indigenous leaders earlier this year to describe the environmental and human tragedy resulting from jair bolsonaro's criminal rule.
we must take up the uncompromising defence of multilateralism and the values of the european union: combating impunity and taking action, defending the international criminal court against the ignominious attack being made on it, implementing the european system of sanctions against perpetrators of human rights violations, establishing a mandatory due diligence mechanism, preventing products obtained through human rights violations and environmental attacks from entering our trade chains and building a european pact for migration and asylum that honours the humanist values of the european union.
at the same time, cohesion policy will have to continue to contribute, and contribute more, to the digital transition, to the fight against climate change, but also to the realisation of the european pillar of social rights.
and we want a mid-term review that also looks at gender mainstreaming and where we are on climate goals.
the system needs to be redesigned in line with the principles of the european green deal, sustainable and aligned with the digital transition and always putting people first.
the carbon market will be dealt with fairly quickly, but the digital tax, the financial transaction tax, the cctb on multinationals, those will have to wait many years.
on the environment, i wanted to understand something: how did we radically change the targets for reducing carbon emissions - and it wasn't enough - without coming here to present the concrete measures that will support these more ambitious targets, because what it seems to hear from you is that there is simply an unshakable faith in the industry leaders, who brought us here, in new technologies whose results are uncertain, to be nice, or in the old technology of hammering the bills, which may fool some citizens but does not fool the planet.
only with concrete measures that promote sustainable recovery and growth will we be able to overcome this crisis.
the european commission has set out three pillars on which to base its strategy: the digital pillar, the environmental pillar (the green deal) and the european way of life.
we also reflect the importance of the green deal: e-commerce must take account of the environmental impact and act accordingly, as long as its practice does not impede the competitiveness of our companies.
in short, we have to find our own way of regulating the digital ecosystem, finding a balance that will, in the long run, undoubtedly be a competitive advantage for our smes, our citizens and the european union in general.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the use of ai on the environment and on the environment-related aspects of the implementation of the directive.
they outline unprecedented ways to improve the current online environment and make the internet safer for its users.
the fight against oligopoly or monopoly is a core principle of the social market economy, which has unfortunately been somewhat distorted in the digital environment.
farming families that i represent need to see a fair balance between a reward for producing food that we eat, looking after our environment and an assurance of generational renewal.
it's fair to say: rural areas are among the most important contributors to improving europe's environmental performance.
our role this week is to reconcile climate and environmental ambitions with sustainable production.
the work of us progressives has been to change this and make sure that the goals set in the european green deal, the farm to fork, the biodiversity strategies, are compatible with the report that we now have in front of us.
i’m happy for the wins – now we have a large percentage of money going to promote the transition to sustainable practices.
i’m also happy that some of the fake climate environmental actions are now gone.
i urge all in this chamber to vote for the amendments which aim to secure that the cap is aligned with the paris agreement goals for the agenda 2030 and therefore gives us some hope that we can create a sustainable future, because this time we have to consider the climate, the environment, animal welfare.
animals are packed together in intensive farming factories and are a threat to our health and to the climate and also, with growing risk of anti-micro-biological superbugs, a risk of transmission of disease, which can lead to new epidemics.
this time, we have to vote to do something about the fact that european agriculture is one of the main polluters and emits enormous amounts of greenhouse gases.
the compromise reached is an important step towards a more sustainable agriculture.
i am concerned that the high percentage of climate and environmental action requirements proposed will make it more difficult to produce food.
seventy per cent of agricultural emissions come from the livestock sector, so eu funding must not be used in any way to support concentrated animal feeding operations.
but if we care about the environment, animals and public health, we should facilitate the choice of european consumers, not the other way around.
as we talk about the eu's future in terms of sustainability and ecology, it is important that the new cap is aligned with the objectives of the european green deal, the biodiversity strategy and the meadow to meadow strategy.
while we must ensure that the eu has a more competitive and self-sufficient agriculture, which focuses on the balanced territorial development of rural economies and communities, the creation and maintenance of jobs, training and incentives for farmers, we must also ensure that there is a strong link with the environmental and sustainability component, and that sustainable management of natural resources and climate action is ensured.
the cap can and should be an ally in the eu's green and digital transition objectives and thus be results-oriented in order to foster economic, social, environmental and climate sustainability and modernisation, in line with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the paris climate agreement.
what is needed are policies that ensure: food sovereignty for each state; support for small and medium-sized farmers and family farming; fair production prices and improved incomes for producers; sustainable agricultural practices that respect biodiversity and the environment; and food security and quality that is accessible to all.
energy poverty must be addressed or it will be just worsened by the green transition.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, as a member of both the economic affairs committee and the employment committee of this parliament, i am very sad to see that the report coming out of econ continues to see austerity and pro-cyclical policies as the only possible economic policy within the european union, and continues to relegate social and climate issues to the background, as is clearly seen in paragraph 25. that is why i shall support amendment no 12. and that is why i think that the lessons of the last economic crisis have not been well learned by a section of this house and also by the european institutions.
it has set ambitions: climate, biodiversity, and gender equality.
we must bet on the future, on the new generations and ensure the climate and digital transition.
we will adopt a programme which will focus on two key points, so as not to repeat the mistakes of the past and to ensure a sustainable future.
we all know: there is no trade-off between sustainable recovery and economic progress.
mitigating the effects of climate change.
we need sustainable investment... but for that, we have to give the public and private sectors the conditions.
to look for solutions to encourage sustainable investment.
so i challenge all leaders here today to have a broad debate, in the relevant international institutions and with the appropriate actors, on how to deal with high levels of public debt and how to create conditions to promote sustainable investment.
as a member of the european parliament, i would like to stress the key role of this institution, the only directly elected body at european level, in the fight against climate change and the transition to a sustainable economy.
the recovery and resilience mechanism is required to go hand in hand with the ambition expressed in the european climate law, contributing in accordance with the 'no significant harm' principle.
at the same time, in order to achieve our objectives, it is recognised that more private investment in line with sustainability criteria needs to be mobilised.
in view of the requirements of the covid-19 crisis, but also of the variable impact of climate change, it is important to ensure a balance between the ecological and social dimensions.
in short, the new agenda must be a kind of software update of the current legislation, to make it bug-free, to make it smart and suitable for effective consumer protection, in an economy that we want to be sustainable and that we know will be increasingly digital!
we will thus be contributing to more sustainable and socially fair policies.
we know that, with regard to agricultural goods and energy goods, we have already had several demonstrations of the very strong correlation between these markets, including in the crises mentioned above.
it should enable the european union to act in a sustainable and resilient manner.
the union's political priorities, such as the green deal or the positions on trade and sustainable development, the protection of social rights or the promotion of gender equality, need to be reflected in trade policy and, consequently, in trade agreements.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
the european council next month will discuss topics of importance to the eu, such as the covid-19 pandemic and the fight against climate change.
decisive action on climate change must be a reality and the commitment to the ecological transition must leave no one behind.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
but also the transport sector, life, justice, digital europe, humanitarian aid or ndici, key sectors for economic and social recovery, but also for the european union to engage in the global context, in a multipolar world, contributing to the climate objectives or to the exploitation of the geostrategic capacity of the european union.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a public place is a very good one.
simplifying is not deregulation, it is not unprotecting workers, consumers or the environment, simplifying is making the law easier to understand and to comply with and therefore even empowering it to be violated less often.
mr president, the water directive is, to date, the main instrument of the european union's water policy, establishing a community governance framework for integrated water management, slowing down the deterioration of water quality and reducing chemical pollution.
there have been and are a number of constraints in the implementation of water legislation due to inadequate funding and insufficient integration of environmental objectives into the different sectoral policies.
we have not achieved the targets we set for 2015, and we must work together, in a hurry, to achieve the targets by 2027, which are: the protection of all forms of surface and groundwater, inland and transitional water, the restoration of existing ecosystems in and around water bodies, the reduction of pollution of water bodies and the guarantee of sustainable water use for all.
the integration of the objectives of the directive needs to be improved across the different sectors, in particular in agriculture, energy and transport, and these need to be aligned with the strategies of biodiversity, circular economy, zero pollution and the common agricultural policy.
turning now to chemical pollution, how does the commission intend to tackle the problems of chemicals and pollutants which are raising new concerns, such as pharmaceuticals and microplastics?
we need to hold accountable those who cause environmental damage, thereby encouraging non-pollution, changing social behaviour and a greater awareness of the importance of this scarce resource.
it is therefore urgent to find effective and immediate responses to the challenges facing the water sector, taking into account its direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture, food security, among many others.
finally, it is essential to raise awareness of the importance of this resource, because there is no doubt that if no action is taken, we will not achieve the objectives proposed for 2027. i would remind you that the mismanagement of this scarce resource will have serious long-term consequences for all of us and for our environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next two years of transition between the present and the future common agricultural policy will be decisive in preparing the sector for what will be a common agricultural policy with more ambitious targets, with more ambitious environmental targets.
i therefore hope that these investment opportunities will be implemented as quickly as possible, particularly in the less developed regions, in the outermost regions, so that this dual objective of the ecological and digital transition to which the union has committed itself can be achieved.
it is imperative that european multinationals abandon the logic of pure extractivism and take on their environmental responsibilities and their contribution to the sustainable development of the countries in which they operate.
we have managed to maintain the dimension of cohesion and cap policies by paving the way for a new generation of policies that make a decisive contribution to achieving the objectives we have set for ourselves by 2030: a 55% reduction in co2 emissions; enhancing sectors where the european dimension brings added value such as research, health or the erasmus programme; supporting programmes in areas particularly devastated by the crisis, such as culture or rights and values; supporting investment and giving the eu more means to act in the global context, making the most of its geo-strategic capacity.
but we have also succeeded in introducing new own resources to finance the eu budget - in line with european political priorities - in strengthening the powers of the european parliament - the debate on the interinstitutional agreement that follows is required for that very reason - in complying with horizontal principles such as gender equality, the achievement of the sustainable development goals, 30% climate spending, 10% biodiversity.
but the european council decisions are also important because they increase ambition in the fight against climate change.
and it is this responsibility that the union assumes when it devotes 30% of the budget to combating climate change and 10% to biodiversity, or when it increases the target of reducing emissions by 2030. we are on the right track, and i welcome that, mr president-in-office, with the certainty that we can and must go further than what the council is now proposing.
a large percentage of the budget will be invested in cohesion and in natural resources and the environment.
this clearly reflects the eu's priorities, not only in the will to recover and promote the development of regions, but also in the will to move forward, by committing to the objectives of the european green deal and developing additional efforts to tackle climate change, protect biodiversity, focus on the circular economy and boost renewable energy.
– madam president, our efforts in climate change mitigation are noble.
we can be proud of having approved the first climate law in the world and of what we are doing to achieve climate neutrality in 30 years.
we need to invest in sustainable and nature-based solutions, protect the economy from climate problems, and improve the resilience of critical infrastructure, adding climate factors to risk management practices, stepping up prevention and preparedness efforts, and making use of technological advancements.
if we are, rightly, financing climate mitigation and transition mechanisms for countries lagging in their energy transition from coal to renewable energy sources, why are we forgetting the countries that are already suffering from climate change, the ones among us who are already burdened by a non-recoverable debt that is maturing in their biodiversity?
we need to advance with adaptation funding, a sort of fair climate adaptation mechanism, to help these cities and regions.
i’m sure i don’t need to explain how it is that everyone will lose if we don’t act now to adapt and reduce these climate change effects.
we must fix the climate and the environment if we are to live better and have better jobs.
rest assured, you will not find the epp arguing in the trenches for the economy and being hostile towards the environment, nor fighting for the climate by shouting for the destruction of the economy or an end to the social market economy.
we need the economy and the environment, and we need them to work together.