this would allow consumers to get a better deal and to cut waste at the same time.
so let’s cut waste, but let’s protect in a way to show why we do so.
51,000 tons of chargers are thrown into the environment every year.
the european union's e-waste continues to grow at a rate of five percent per year.
it is estimated that this will save consumers more than half a billion euros by 2021. i want to emphasize that standardizing chargers should be just one small step towards more sustainable consumption.
madam president, commissioner, the question of the common charger is of the utmost importance, not only for the lives of consumers, who are obliged to buy a range of chargers for each device, but also for environmental reasons.
the current situation produces a huge amount of completely unnecessary electronic waste which is estimated to amount to about 50,000 tons of obsolete chargers per year.
madam president, commissioner, 51 000 tonnes of electronic waste a year is generated by the accumulation of mobile terminal chargers, with its consequent environmental footprint.
it will also make life easier for consumers and waste management, allowing for more rational use of chargers and reducing their number.
in addition to the obvious inconvenience to citizens, this has meant and still means thousands of tonnes of unnecessary waste.
up to €95 million in benefits for consumers, a positive environmental impact, but also 'indisputable' benefits for the single market and for the increased competitiveness of our small, medium and large enterprises.
however, with as much as 51 000 tonnes of chargers being discarded, the introduction of a single model would also have a very positive impact on our environment.
we must not lose sight of the objectives that the european union has set itself through the green deal and we must ensure that, in addition to standardisation, we also enforce compliance with environmentally-friendly production technologies, an extended warranty period and clear recycling arrangements so that the carbon footprint of the final product is as low as possible.
decent housing at a reasonable price in a safe environment is a basic need that can be considered a human right.
if we look at the situation in the large conurbations in particular, where on the one hand we have exploding rents, shrinking housing - all this is combined in many places with rising energy costs - if we consider that in germany alone 400 000 households are without electricity, and a total of 17 million households in the european union cannot heat properly or at all, this is actually accompanied by worsening developments, so to speak, and we have to deal with this.
mr president, the new ecological pact will probably bring about changes comparable to those produced by the great revolutions through which mankind has passed, but we have an obligation to ensure that there will be no dramatic social consequences, such as those recently encountered in europe.
no government program could repair the disaster that was both human and economic and ecological.
it is no longer news to anyone that excessive pollution and diet are among the main causes of disease.
our main objective is to ensure the union's balanced, sustainable and inclusive growth, taking into account the specificities and needs of all member states and their regions.
this requires further development of policies that create better working and living conditions and contribute to environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
we need to work together to achieve climate neutrality for the european union by 2050. deepening the single market and fostering digitalisation, investing in innovation and research, quality and lifelong learning and developing skills adapted to the jobs of the future all play a role in strengthening the union's competitiveness.
we will therefore strongly advocate for further development of transport, energy and digital infrastructure, for the benefit of our citizens.
only a safe europe can provide a peaceful environment for its citizens.
achieving a comprehensive solution for sustainable and effective migration and asylum policies is our joint objective.
in a wide range of policy areas, from climate change and trade to nuclear proliferation, our union has a unique ability to achieve necessary compromises and resolve crises.
as a staunch supporter of the un sustainable development goals and the world's largest donor of development assistance, we have a special responsibility towards african, caribbean and pacific nations.
it was a phenomenal ceremony at the opening of the presidency in the national theatre, which showed the energy and the enthusiasm croatia brings to the union, so thank you very much for that.
over the next six months, we will need all that determination, that unity and energy that croatians are famous for.
we will need that unity to handle brexit and budget negotiations and deal with the pressing international issues you just mentioned, and we will need that energy to ensure that europe can shape the digital and climate transitions.
the croatian programme pinpoints all the critical challenges: climate change, transport, connectivity, enlargement, global relevance, digital revolution and the safety of our citizens.
for the latter, we will advocate the incorporation of a new golden rule in the stability and growth pact that encourages sustainable investment in the member states.
so i don't want to hide from you our family's disappointment at the absence in your program of the sustainable investment plan and the just transition fund.
the programme also ignores the commitment made by the european commission to include the sustainable development goals in the european semester.
if you are willing, you can count on the support of our group to work for the ecological, social and economic change that europe needs.
i saw that you have already brought such energy and a fresh approach to your first presidency.
i'm also working on a smart village project, which is about developing and connecting digitization, environmental challenges, economic challenges, and allowing people to have jobs where they were born.
at that time, we had no paris climate agreement.
you cannot accept to have a level playing field if there’s a huge divergence in taxation or social standards or environmental standards.
therefore, on some of the items, we know that climate change and the climate neutral objective until 2015 will be the driver of our economic transformation.
i would like to draw the attention of the croatian presidency of the council of the eu to the fact that nord stream 2 is not only an economic project, but also one with serious implications for european energy security.
we see in bucharest and other capitals liberated three decades ago from communism that the appetite for business of some member states takes precedence over the principle of solidarity, which is at the heart of european unity, and over common energy security.
we also need diversification of energy sources and coordinated negotiations between the union and third countries to respond more effectively to the geopolitical challenges posed by access to oil and gas resources.
– madam president, honourable members, it’s just last month – ten days into office – that the commission was in this parliament to present the green deal for europe: our answer to the millions of citizens who demand action on the climate and our proposed roadmap to make europe the first climate-neutral bloc in the world by 2050. now, only four weeks later, we are here again with a financial package to back that goal – a european green deal investment plan for all the opportunities that the green transition offers and a just transition mechanism, which is our pledge of solidarity and fairness for those who face the deepest challenge to make this journey with us.
we know that you face a steeper path towards climate neutrality and we know that the prospect of a different future – a cleaner one – might be a welcoming prospect in general, but the road to it looks daunting today.
this will generate eur 30 to 50 billion of investment – money that can be used for workers to learn new skills for jobs of the future, support for businesses to bring new employment opportunities, investments in clean energy and repurposing of industrial facilities to prepare the ground for new activities.
this will mobilise private funds for a total up to eur 45 billion to help regions bring new sustainable businesses to replace the polluting ones and put new skills to use.
wherever industries want to contribute to climate neutrality, we will help with investments to move to new technologies and preserve jobs.
climate change will touch the social foundations of our society.
renewable energy, green jobs, clean air to breathe and fresh water to drink.
– madam president, the european green deal sets out our ambition to make europe the first climate—neutral continent by 2050. we have no choice.
the sustainable europe investment plan or european green deal investment plan, adopted by the commission today, fills this commitment with life and with much—needed financing.
the plan will mobilise at least eur 1 trillion of sustainable investments over the next decade.
the eu budget, with its 25% climate mainstreaming target, will add up to around half of this amount.
through investeu, we will mobilise some eur 279 billion of public and private funds for climate- and environmentally—friendly investments, so the greener budget eu will lead by example.
i would also outline the eib financing, which aims to raise its share of sustainable financing from 25% to 50% by 2025. second, we are putting forward conditions to enable public authorities and private operators to invest sustainably.
later this year, we will follow it up with a renewed sustainable finance action plan.
putting economic, environmental and social sustainability at the heart of policy requires a change of mindset.
the european commission presented us last december with the proposal for the new european green deal, an ambitious proposal that sets out to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. and there is no doubt that this colossal project requires a real, a real transformation of our socioeconomic systems, and also of our way of life.
but it will also depend on how we are able to manage the impact that this transformation will have on our regions, with industrial energy models that require more expensive modernisation.
it aims to mobilise €1 trillion over the next decade to ensure that europe becomes the first continent to achieve climate neutrality.
however, the commission itself recognises that the €1 trillion it hopes to mobilise is only a fraction of the investment required to make this ecological transformation.
and in this sense, the first great challenge makes it imperative to have a debate on how to generate new revenue to deal with this great social, ecological and economic transformation.
we ask that the multiannual financial framework allocate at least 30% to the fight against climate change.
but we also need to talk about own resources, which include non-recycled plastic packaging waste, the eu emissions trading system, fair taxation of the digital sector, a financial transaction tax and the common consolidated corporate tax base.
and on the other hand, we demand that member states benefit from a wider margin of manoeuvre in their national budgets to stimulate sustainable investment.
and to make the latter a reality, we propose a reform of the tax rules so that sustainable investments are exempted from the calculation of the debt deficit under the stability and growth pact.
it means providing the just transition fund with additional financial resources so as not to reduce cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy; it means boosting learning skills to enable future generations to successfully tackle the ecological and digital transformation; and it also means ensuring decent working conditions to close the wage gap and fight child poverty.
ladies and gentlemen, we have the opportunity to put europe at the forefront of the fight against climate change, but we need to work and commit ourselves also from a financial point of view.
the message that my political group, renew europe, is advocating is that citizens should remember, after this debate, that the european union proposes to turn the challenges of the environment and climate change into opportunities for the development of an inclusive society with new skills, better jobs and economic growth.
the effect is that we are playing off the people who work in industries whose very existence is threatened by the transformation of climate change, against, for example, the longterm unemployed, who have very different problems.
we must not play the victims against the weak in our society, but if we are serious and say: 'climate change and the fight against climate change must not lead to disruptive developments and structural breakdowns', then we must generate additional money and not simply shovel the money from the left pocket into the right pocket.
madam president, from what we are hearing today, there is still scepticism from people on whether climate change and inequalities can be addressed together.
i think the fact that we are discussing precisely this point today – a just transition and a sustainable investment plan – is proof that, yes, climate change and inequalities can be addressed together if there is the will to do so.
with the european green deal, we want to make europe a front—runner in climate—friendly industries but, at the same time, i am sure that climate action benefits the most vulnerable and does not leave low—income households behind.
yes, we recognise that workers in carbon—intensive activities need the required protection to be able to benefit from this transition because, ultimately, the jobs of tomorrow will require different skills and we need to make sure that our current workforce adapts, while the future workforce is prepared for these jobs.
participation of affected workers and communities in planning and advancing climate action; support through targeted financial programmes and capacity building that prioritises the most vulnerable; and creation of high-quality and sustainable jobs and strong social measures, including reskilling and upskilling of workers.
many countries in the east have made efforts to achieve their targets for the share of renewable energy.
it's proof that we can have clear environmental goals, but we have to find the right formula: funding, project implementation assistance, recognition of the importance of the energy mix.
the pollution!
i'm a doctor, and i treat people affected by pollution every day.
my bill for the same is on the agenda of the chamber of deputies in the romanian parliament and i don't see why it couldn't be passed; 2. the introduction of environmental education at european level.
today our union is facing new challenges such as the climate emergency, inequalities, digitalisation.
biodiversity and climate change must go hand in hand.
after setting ambitious climate targets in paris, it is now time to set out a clear roadmap for more biodiversity.
this includes promoting sustainable agriculture and forestry worldwide, which is a major contributor to biodiversity, habitats and ecosystems and has the potential to mitigate the impacts of climate change.
mr president, i usually talk about forests in the european parliament, but today i'm going to talk about cities, because 68% of the world's population will be living in urban areas by 2050. we know that climate change is increasing the frequency of heat waves.
in the case of a city that also faces a high level of pollution - as our bucharest is - the solutions could be: creating urban forests, creating a green belt, encouraging vertical gardens and green roofs.
the idea of a smart city has to include the sustainability part, because we have to have natural ecosystems corrected by corridors so that seeds can spread easily.
sars in 2003; ebola in 2014; zika in 2015 and now the coronavirus in 2020. in the age of climate change, the only constant is the changing and increasing virulence of pandemics.
madam president, any european transport strategy must take account of our environmental objectives, but also of economic realities.
the european strategy must allow for a just ecological transition.
madam president, allow me to congratulate commissioner valean on her priority for sustainable transport, transport by waterways.
let’s take, for example, the biggest challenge of our generation: the twin ecological and digital transition, which will affect every part of our society and every one of us.
we have already presented to you the european green deal communication, our new growth strategy and the european green deal investment plan as well as the just transition mechanism to support territories most affected by energy transition.
the next big step is the climate law, which will propose a binding climate—neutrality target for the eu in 2050. we will conduct an impact assessment until summer.
we will soon propose the 2030 biodiversity strategy to preserve and protect the natural environment and set out our ambition for the negotiations at the coming conference as well as the ‘farm to fork’ strategy, the new eu forest strategy and a comprehensive strategy for sustainable and smart mobility.
the european climate bank will help bring together all these efforts, involving regions, local communities, civil societies, schools, industry and individuals.
as regards our economy, we prioritise social fairness at the heart of the twin transitions, the green and digital ones, and as a part of this, we will refocus all our policies, including the european semester, by incorporating the united nations sustainable development goals.
the eu’s external policy should effectively address issues related to democracy and good governance, climate change, migration and human rights.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
while the work programme incorporates the necessary instruments to implement the green deal through a just transition in all regions, we regret that it does not include the target of 55% emission reduction by 2030. the climate emergency recently declared in this parliament demonstrates our firm commitment to combating climate change, and the same commitment we expect from the commission and the council.
otherwise, climate neutrality by 2050 will be an empty promise, and we cannot afford it.
climate, technological and demographic changes are changing our society and our way of life.
over the next ten years, it will mobilise at least a trillion euros, which means that we expect a trillion investments in environmental and climate protection.
in particular, the transition towards an ecological and sustainable europe.
i support the initiative against biodiversity loss by 2030, which is a priority for croatia as a country rich in natural resources.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the member states.
this is a point that may happen at some point in the future, but it has nothing to do with the external economic backing of the green deal, and it has nothing to do with the implementation of the un's sustainability goals in foreign trade policy.
so i really ask the commission: where are the sustainable development goals in trade policy?
where are the real supply chains that are so fair that companies can also take responsibility for the sustainability goals globally?
we have the ambition to have a pollution-neutral europe.
mr president, we must realise that to achieve the ambitious goals of the european green deal we need not only smart and sustainable transport solutions, but also sustainable transport routes, built with respect for the environment.
we have very clear common political objectives: europe should be the first climate neutral continent by 2050, not only because it is about the health of the planet - that is the main objective - but also because we know that behind it, if we develop a clean and environmentally friendly economy, there are new jobs that are sustainable and that therefore also mean the future.
and we want to empower people in europe by, on the one hand, cushioning the transition triggered by the ecological and digital transformation, and on the other hand, doing exactly the right thing, which is investing in education and training, especially with skills in the ecological and digital fields.
but, most of all, we need a budget so that citizens and companies see that we are able to act on climate change.
i will not accept any result which does not guarantee that at least 25% of the budget is devoted to the fight against climate change.
the reason is simple: if we do not provide the means to support regions and workers who are most exposed to the economic and social consequences of climate change policies, we simply will not succeed in achieving climate neutrality.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
that europe really needs to embark on a major transformation to lead the world in sustainability, a transformation in economic, social, environmental matters.
and the president of the council, mr charles michel, has also alluded to the need to take the lead in the fight for climate neutrality in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen how much is expected of europe to provide answers to the challenges we face: the financial crisis, the migration crisis, climate change... crisis after crisis, more and more calls are being made for europe.
the effects of climate change are tangible and call for solutions, as is the digital transformation, but we also need to modernise our common agricultural policy and our cohesion policy.
after brexit, with the president in the white house, with the climate catastrophe and the global goal of making sustainability in all policy areas, are we really going to do this?
we want the green deal, we want the european investment bank's money for clean energy projects, we want money invested in decarbonising industries, we want a digital superpower europe, we want to approve the cfm as soon as possible, because that's where it all starts, from the political agreement that is quickly assumed.
you voted, dear colleagues on the left, against nuclear energy, which has been proven to be the safest and cleanest, you voted against gas pipelines, you voted against coal energy.
i understand your desire to make energy out of violets and daisies, but i assure you that's not going to happen.
it brought the criteria closer to the european union's political will to respond to the challenges of climate change.
the important message that has emerged from the chamber and from this week's discussions today is that the commission must also make these lists compatible with its political objectives in order to achieve the transition to a low-carbon economy and the objective of carbon neutrality by 2050. i myself voted in favour of this list, although it is not exhaustive, since it also includes three quarters of the projects for improving the electricity networks.
they have not been applied for and now the new legislation must include energy efficiency, smart grids and others much better.
i believe the projects on this list are important for the creation of a well-functioning internal energy market in the eu, as i support the ambition of a stable, secure and affordable supply of energy.
the list of energy projects comes as a package, and i support it as a package.
this list contains a number of key projects across the european union that will help us meet all objectives of the energy union.
in ireland, these include a number of important new projects, including the celtic interconnector (ireland’s proposed electricity interconnection with france), additional electricity connections between ireland and the uk, and the proposed silvermines renewable hydroelectric power station.
these are all important elements of ireland’s move towards renewable energy and, notably, our objective of reaching 70% renewable electricity by 2030. while i understand concerns about the inclusion of gas projects, projections show that gas will play an important role in transition by reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the power-generating industrial and commercial, residential and transport sectors by replacing more co2-intensive fossil fuels like coal and oil.
in the environment of western values, of christian values, women have never had this kind of unprotected.
the pillar frames our social strategy to make sure that the transition towards a digital and climate neutral society is socially fair and sustainable.
gender equality must be at the heart of the climate change challenge, because it is women who will suffer the worst impacts.
i want to tell you that environmental sustainability is fundamental to the planet, but also sustainability of women's dignity, of justice and equality.
the overall objective of the eu is to reaffirm the full validity of the international acquis on gender equality, the full enjoyment of all human rights by all women and girls, and their environment.
farmers have a mission: they want to produce the best, high-quality, sustainable food, and they're doing it today.
we have to be careful in our policy debates about agriculture that we don't put farmers on the spot, that we don't talk about polluters, climate killers, poison mixers, but that we talk to them, that we say to them, yes, you're doing a great job, but we have to do better.
and that we empower them to do better, that we don't start a ban orgy in the next few months, that we don't start a mandatory orgy in the next few months, but that we provide incentives for more climate action: that we empower farmers, for example, to build humus for more climate action; we need to give them the means to use fewer pesticides, but with incentives, with the right measures, not with bans.
that we enter into the debate on how we protect our farmers beyond the european union, when we already have the highest environmental standards in europe.
in my country, if 72% of consumers say: "yes, i am willing to pay more for animal welfare, for environmental protection, for climate protection" - 72% - but only 16% are actually willing to pay more at the counter, then something is wrong.
it is an ambitious plan to introduce a sustainable food production system, and european farmers have a key role to play in this plan.
european farmers therefore face a major challenge: to produce food in a sustainable way that benefits the environment, the climate and human health.
food security is as important as defense or energy security.
farmers are aware of the need to move towards sustainable food production.
if today some agricultural production is not sustainable, if we are dealing with, for example, concentration and intensification of farming, it is not because the farmers wanted it, but because economic circumstances forced them to do so.
there must be adequate measures for environmental, climate and animal welfare measures in the second pillar.
we're going to encourage farmers to adopt sustainable farming practices, sustainable livestock practices, for example, to reduce the intensity of farming, to voluntarily introduce higher animal welfare standards, but we have to have the budget to do that.
european agriculture must be sustainable, environmentally, climate- and animal-friendly, but to achieve this, agricultural policy must be farmer-friendly, ambitious and fair.
and i think the fact is that right now, farmers seem to be responsible for everything: for the loss of biodiversity, for climate change, for the overuse of chemicals, for the overuse of antibiotics.
and consumers are constantly saying that they want things to be even better, they want things to be healthier, they want things to be more sustainable, and then as soon as they walk into the supermarket, they're looking for the deal where they can pay for one and take three.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution by nitrates and their salts is a very good one.
the agri-food sector is ready to step up to provide even more environmental services, achieving carbon neutrality for the benefit of all european citizens.
there is no environmental sustainability, mr commissioner, without the economic and social sustainability of the sector.
and at the same time, third, support for the environment.
but women’s rights face new challenges as well, related to digitalisation, migration and climate change.
they also focused on possible solutions to safeguard the sustainable supply of medicines and equipment on the eu internal market.
i think it’s very important not to oppose – or to avoid – the traditional policies, more economic and, as a result, social convergence at the european level and, at the same time, to be able to face the new challenges we need to face, like climate change, like the digital agenda, like migration, like security, like defence.
in my negotiating box i have made some concrete proposals regarding the possibility to take a decision regarding plastic waste distribution or regarding the possibility to enlarge at european level the ets system.
for many member states the plastic waste contribution is possible, for some member states the ets system remains something very complex, very difficult, and we will continue decisions on these different topics.
in my opinion, it doesn’t replace the role of the next european budget, but it’s something more in order to give the possibility in the future for the digital agenda, for example, or for climate change to use the european investment bank more.
attempting to find a solution along these lines would therefore absorb everyone’s time, energy and focus, while we need all efforts to find a good agreement on the actual long-term budget soon.
even if it didn’t fail, what type of answer to structural challenges such as climate change, digitisation and external policies could we give with a one-year budget?
worst of all, it would result in a budget without response to the new challenges: no just transition fund, no investeu, no defence and digital agenda, and a lower climate ambition.
how would we explain to the citizens that europe is unable to act when it comes to climate and digital challenges, or that it lacks the means to protect our common borders effectively?
and we cannot be at the beginning of a legislature talking about how we lead the fight against climate change, how we strengthen the european social pillar, how we maintain policies that are geared to our territory, such as the common agricultural policy or cohesion policy, and how we adapt to new policies that have to be put in place, for example, migration... we have a clear case on the table today.
this does not mean that we should stop protecting the environment or stop addressing environmental issues.
the fight against the pandemic will not be sustainable if we do not keep the economic and social fabric alive.
(applause) second vote on specific measures to mobilise investment in the health systems of the member states and in other sectors of their economies in response to the covid-19 epidemic: the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
on the third vote on financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating accession to the european union seriously affected by the serious public health emergency: the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
the first vote on the allocation of slots at community airports: the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
on the second vote, 'specific measures for investment in health systems': the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
third vote on 'financial assistance to member states and countries negotiating accession to the european union seriously affected by the public health emergency': the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
because this strength of the internal market, this capacity to further develop the circular economy, to build on the digital agenda, on this transformation through climate change too, must give us the opportunity to have more capacity for strategic independence from the european union.
in the short and medium term, it is about supporting more health systems on the african continent, reopening this debate on debts that weigh heavily on the ability to act from the african continent, but also ensuring that in the longer medium and long term, there is an ambition for smart investment in a partnership of mutual interest with the african continent, in infrastructure consistent with the digital agenda, consistent with the green deal, with climate change.
the starting point for this must be making our economies, societies and way of life more sustainable and resilient.
as the global recovery picks up, global warming will not slow down.
investing in large-scale renovation, renewables, clean transport, sustainable food and nature restoration will be even more important than before.
this is not only good for our economies, it's not only good for our environment, but it will reduce dependencies by shortening and diversifying supply chains.
in other words, thus we are paving the way to a climate-neutral, digitalised and resilient europe.
we already knew before the crisis that we also need major private investment in key sectors and key technologies 5g, artificial intelligence, clean hydrogen, offshore renewable energies, you name it.
but there is no vaccine against climate change, and therefore europe must now invest in a cleaner future.
if we have to increase the debt, if we have to raise money for the future of our children, then it is the least we can do to invest that money in their future, to tackle climate change, to reduce the burden of climate change and not just to pack something in.
there is one aspect, which ursula von der leyen has already rightly underlined, that is about future investments – climate change, the question of stronger investments in research, the digital world, education, the fight against cancer or today against corona – and to do it together as common activities.
convergence and sustainability must be the objectives that set the course for the reconstruction plan and the resource on how to use that money.
it is being asked by society; it is being asked by young people when they tell us not to sacrifice their future by giving up the european green deal and a more sustainable model of society; it is being asked by social media from the wemoveeu initiative.
i have heard mrs van der leyen speak about the european semester, and i would like to remind you that our political group will not accept that the european semester is not linked to such important issues as environmental sustainability, social rights and the sustainable development goals.
attention to the environment, digitization, strategic sectors like healthcare will be the core of the reconstruction and economic transformation that we need.
the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
at the same time, allow me to reiterate parliament’s resolutions to reform eu own resources system through the introduction of common consolidated corporate tax base, digital services taxation, a financial transaction tax, emissions trading scheme contributions, a tax on plastics and a carbon border adjustment mechanism.
proposals to create new euro banknotes, whether for financial transactions, digital services, plastic products or emissions, will lead to less tax collection at national level, and will make it harder for national governments to finance services and investments for their citizens.
amendment no 32: accepted by the committee on the environment.
amendment no 20 (d): rejected by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
in hungary, the environment in which media and journalists operate has been deteriorating for a number of years.
the european environment agency - approved agency of the european union for railways - approved.
the european gnss agency - approved european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction - approved the european union has also adopted a number of measures to combat air pollution.
european training foundation - approved eurojust - approved european joint undertaking for the iter project and the development of fusion energy - approved.
agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators - approved.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and on the environment in the member states, in particular by taking into account the impact of the proposed amendments on the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and on the environment in the member states.
and while we're doing this, we need to press fast forward towards a green, digital and resilient future, because this is the future of europe's next generation - this generation that is globally connected and feels responsible for our world, our planet, with a clear vision to promote human dignity and the rule of law, determined to hold governments more accountable for fighting climate change and saving our nature, driven by the idealism for europe and the belief that our union must strive for better.
yes, the effects of this crisis mean that we need to make investments on an unprecedented scale today, but we will do it in a way that europe's next generation will reap the benefits tomorrow - investments that will not only preserve the outstanding achievements of the last 70 years but will ensure that our union is climate neutral, digital, social and a strong global player also in the future.
at the same time, we must ensure that the transition to a climate-neutral economy leaves no one behind.
these could for example be based on the planned expansion of emissions trading or on a co2 border tax, which acts as an compensation mechanism against the import of cheaper climate-damaging products from abroad, and/or on a new digital tax, so that where billions of profits are made, there is also a contribution to the common good.
we can now lay the foundations for a union that is climate neutral, digital, more robust and social, and better positioned than ever before.
today is the moment, the chapter of our generation, to add another bold step to the path towards a sustainable union.
and it is also our duty to show solidarity with future generations by investing in the key policies for tomorrow: the green and digital transformation, because we cannot destroy the environment, destroy biodiversity and, on top of that, put massive debts on their backs.
conditions must be put in place to advance environmental sustainability and social sustainability.
why does climate change suffocate blacks more than whites?
we need to support the sectors and regions most affected by the pandemic to kick-start the economy and lay the ground for a sustainable recovery across europe.
just think of labour standards or environmental protection.
what is needed now is an injection of new energy and dynamism: a paradigm shift in these talks.
for this parliament, a comprehensive agreement means guarantees on fair competition with clear social, environmental and labour protection, and this is what prime minister johnson and the eu signed up to only months ago in the political declaration.
we can harness this momentum to transform our economies and adapt them to the new digital context and the environmental emergency and ensure a fairer society with stronger public policies.
a major effort is needed, but the benefits are great, especially if we link the investments to the challenges that we anyway have to face, namely the climate crisis, biodiversity loss, social inequality and digitalisation.
i would like to say on behalf of the left that we cannot accept any agreement which is social dumping, environmental dumping, tax dumping or which brings the security of private data to the market.
so we believe that only the rapid establishment of genuine own resources would make it possible to strengthen the credibility of this recovery plan and also guarantee the sustainability of the european project.
the plan will reflect many areas identified in your report, such as connectivity (especially in transport and energy), green transition and digital transformation.
third, to support the green transformation and work on environmental and climate resilience.
the eastern partnership is an important part of the eu's neighbourhood policy and aims to achieve political association, ensure further economic integration, promote prosperity and provide a platform to address common challenges, including sustainable development.
(estimated eu gdp will decline by 7,4%); the amounts in the package to be provided through loans and mainly grants, direct payments for investments and equity; an assessment to be made before the end of the recovery strategy and the possibility of the mff being revised accordingly at mid-term; the new recovery and transformation fund to be calculated outside the amounts in the next mff and this recovery fund to be included in a consolidated mff and with new sources of financing; the introduction of a list of potential candidates for new own resources: a consolidated common corporate tax base, a digital services tax, a tax on financial transactions, a scheme for the trading of emissions certificates, a mechanism for the elimination of the vat and other taxes on plastic materials and other carbon dioxide emissions, and a simplified vat and other revenue source for the eu budget, but also for the adjustment of the vat and other revenue sources, and for the adjustment of all revenue and carbon dioxide emissions.
seasonal and cross-border workers are the heartbeat that pumps energy into many sectors of the european economy.
– mr president, to conclude, i would like to reiterate the council’s support with regard to the free movement of seasonal and cross-border workers, but let me reiterate the conditions for this support, which are providing these workers with a safe working environment, social protection and equal treatment with national workers.
brazil is retreating at a staggering rate on environmental protection, and this relaxation includes a new proposed law to give title deeds to farmers who illegally occupy indigenous lands.
we'll never find a vaccine for climate change, that's for sure.
that's why the issue of climate change and the issue of biodiversity loss will have to come back to the fore once the corona crisis is over.
all colleagues have heard that the brazilian embassy says that there is no environmental damage in brazil.
i therefore also appeal to the german government to remove the issue of mercosur from the agenda of its presidency of the council and to place climate and biodiversity loss at the top of the agenda instead.
we’re investing billions of euros every single year to tackle climate change and we invest billions of euros to support our european farmers, especially the beef farmers, against this unfair competition on the international markets.
so how can we actually explain that we use the money here to tackle climate change but we encourage the disaster abroad?
madam president, during the covid-19 crisis, due to the disappearance of pollution factors, phenomena have occurred that have surprised and delighted the european of the 21st century.
it has also shown a clear understanding that the multi—faceted challenges that affect the amazon basin, its immense natural resources and its populations need to be tackled in a holistic manner and in the context of sustainable development objective working in partnership with the countries in the region.
i work very closely with all my colleagues concerned to bring together environmental, agricultural, trade, health and climate aspects of deforestation.
we need to scale up efforts towards preserving critical ecosystems such as forests, not only as a solution to climate change and biodiversity challenge, but also achieve sustainability and resilience.
since many of you have mentioned free trade agreements, let me recall that all our modern free trade agreements contain ambitious, even if imperfect, provisions to promote trade and sustainable development.
it is a way of having dialogue and working with brazil and the other partners in the region to push and encourage each other to live up to the commitments we have made together in the paris agreement and to work together on the environmental issues.
according to the proposal, an environmental risk assessment may be delayed for up to several years, during which time the potential risk to human health and the environment will remain.
the dutch advisory body also calls this setting aside of gmo legislation and the authorisation of gmos without a prior environmental risk assessment irresponsible and disproportional.
five themes are particularly important to me at this time: our fundamental rights, cohesion, climate protection, digitalisation and europe's responsibility in the world.
europe will remain europe only if it can provide innovative responses to the challenges of climate change and digitalisation on this basis and if it can assume its responsibilities in the world.
european solidarity is not just a humanitarian gesture, it is a sustainable investment.
we want a europe that is able to face the future, that is innovative and sustainable and that assumes its place in the world.
we can't waste any more time.
first of all, the climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat climate change, including the introduction of a new energy policy.
i too am convinced that a global solution to climate change is only possible if europe takes a leading role in climate protection.
by closely following them throughout our presidency, we will be able to achieve the transition to a carbon-neutral economy and society, a green economy with strong and innovative businesses - an economy that protects and enhances the natural livelihoods and competitiveness of europe for future generations.
it is important to me that we establish europe's climate neutrality by 2050 in a legal way.
i therefore welcome the european commission's consideration of reducing emissions by 50 to 55% by 2030 compared with 1990 as an intermediate step.
we will also be supporting the work on the european climate protection law in this perspective.
it as well as climate action requires that we change our way of living and doing business in a sustainable way.
but let me be very clear: our commitment to digitisation, like our commitment to climate change, does not mean that we abandon everything that is established and that we put the jobs of millions of europeans at risk.
on the contrary, it is about a necessary transformation of our society that will provide more protection and more sustainability in the long term.
the commission has already proposed a new approach to the problem of the environment, which was proposed by the european commission last year and on which you have developed many ideas in your resolutions.
then we need answers to climate change and digitization.
the european union must be the international voice of the rule of law and the international voice of innovation and sustainability.
by the end of the year we will have to chart the path towards our goal of a climate-neutral europe.
in september, we will propose the european union's new 2030 climate target, underpinned by a robust impact assessment and here, cooperation with the european parliament and the european council will be vital.
we need to build the future — climate, digital, industries — simply the most modern continent.
let us show the world that it is possible to create a more just, sustainable society that thinks about the environment and future generations; a society of equality with women in leadership positions in all institutions; a society that values public policies, such as health or education; that protects workers; that demands fair wages; that values diversity and is able to manage migration flows with solidarity.
the other instrument, the just transition fund, on which parliament was also very active and vocal will now deliver some eur 40 billion for those people and regions that will suffer the most from the transition to a carbon neutral economy.
it’s also the first time, the first time that our budgetary funds are connected to our climate ambition.
it targets of 30% of the mmf and the recovery fund to fight climate change and we will make sure the recovery fund money is well spent by ensuring it is backed by solid governance.
30% of next generation eu and our mff will be spent on climate-related projects and, if we get it right, i believe that next generation eu can be one of the biggest stimulus for investment and reforms anywhere in the world investing in the rollout of 5g, grid infrastructure, in ai and industrial digitization, in renewables, sustainable transport, energy-efficient buildings, you name it!
this is how we fight climate change and modernize.
now we have no time to waste.
we will also put forward a carbon border adjustment mechanism and an extension of the emission trading system.
we need to put a price on carbon in all key sectors of the economy at home and we need to avoid carbon leakage from elsewhere to make sure that we are sustainable and competitive.
it is an old political debate which has been the subject of a very substantial step forward this time, and i am glad that the european parliament, the national parliaments, the council and the european council can continue to be involved, because behind the question of these levies, whether they are linked to carbon at borders, linked to the digital issue, linked to the financial issue, there are fundamentally democratic debates, which deserve to be mobilized by our citizens.
a lot of work, a lot of mobilisation, a lot of energy is going to be needed to make sure that this agreement can be translated on paper in the european council, which will lead to passionate and exciting discussions with the european parliament, that we can translate this into real life.
– mr president, in the age of climate change, we must prepare now, in 2020, for the world of 2030, a world that doesn’t look simple at all.
right now, as i speak, all over the world and in europe we have forest fires, extreme weather and climate events.
i would only like to say to mr lagodinsky and others that i share very much their approach to try to substitute the search for energy in those seas, which is something that we know that it is not exactly in accordance with our green deal, and instead of that we should try to provide to cyprus, turkey and the greek islands big support in order to develop alternatives energies.
all the natural resources that we want to mobilise in order to provide cleaner and decarbonised energy are there.
i think that one of the ways to try to solve the problem is that we would like to stop looking for carbon energies – and although gas is a ‘less—carbon’ one it is still a carbon one – and to look for another solution.
you can't just let that go to waste.
our economies need continued policy support and a delicate balance will need to be struck between providing financial support and ensuring fiscal sustainability.
at the heart of it is our mission to become the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. but we will not get there with the status quo: we need to go faster and we need to do things better.
our impact assessment clearly shows that meeting this target would put the european union firmly on track for climate neutrality by 2050 and for meeting our paris agreement obligations.
i am fully aware that many of our partners are far from that but we have to lead, and i will come back to the carbon border adjustment mechanism later.
while emissions dropped 25% since 1990, our economy grew more than 60%.
the difference is we now have the technology, we have way more expertise and we have the investment, and we are already embarking towards a circular economy with carbon neutral production.
we have more proof that what is good for the climate is good for business and is good for us all.
meeting this new target will reduce our energy import dependency, will create millions of extra jobs and more than halve air pollution.
by next summer, we will revise all of our climate and energy legislation to make it fit for 55. we will enhance emissions trading, boost renewable energy, improve energy efficiency, reform energy taxation.
but the mission of the european green deal involves much more than cutting emissions.
our current levels of consumption of raw materials, energy, water, food and land use are not sustainable.
so we will tackle everything from hazardous chemicals to deforestation, to pollution.
our buildings generate more than 40% of our emissions.
they need to become less wasteful, less expensive and more sustainable.
and we know that the construction sector can even be turned from a carbon source into a carbon sink, if organic building materials like wood and smart technologies like ai are being used.
but this is not just an environmental or economic project: it needs to be a new cultural project for europe.
and we need to give our systemic change its own distinct aesthetics to match style with sustainability.
a world served by an economy that cuts emissions, boosts competitiveness, reduces energy poverty, creates rewarding jobs and improves quality of life.
the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
that's a huge waste.
(beifall) and we want european industry to develop its own next generation microprocessor that will allow us to use the increasing amounts of data in an energy efficient and secure way.
we have common interests on issues such as climate change, and china has shown it is willing to engage through a high-level dialogue but we expect also china to live up to its commitments in the paris agreement and to lead by example.
africa will be a key partner in building the world we want to live in, whether it is on climate, digital or trade.
this would be one of the biggest acts of environmental protection in history.
i want to come back to the carbon border adjustment mechanism.
carbon must have its price because nature can't pay this price anymore.
and this carbon border adjustment mechanism should motivate foreign producers and eu importers to reduce their carbon emissions, while ensuring that we level the playing field in a wto compatible way.
but let there be no doubt, should an agreement fall short of a fair tax system that provides long-term sustainable revenues, europe will come forward with a proposal early next year.
they have a future to build and skills, energy and talent.
we can probably even have a kind of digital act like we do the climate act, to prioritise things – investment in infrastructure and investment in technologies.
the great challenge of ecological and digital transformation is now joined by the need to address the health, social and economic impacts of covid, which are many, and to do so in a context of total uncertainty.
but we have to decide, because only then can we invest in the ecological and digital transition, taking into account the social dimension as well, without leaving anyone behind.
we welcome the fact that it has committed itself to a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. my group has been fighting for that for a long time.
but let's not forget that caring for people is also part of sustainability.
suspending the fiscal pact until 2022 was a good decision and now we must also open ourselves to a possible golden rule for sustainable investment.
then, each of our decisions must enable our citizens to gain sustainable prosperity.
an important step has just been taken for european climate law with the setting of an ambitious target of 55% for reducing carbon emissions.
but in addition to the virus that affects our daily lives, the security environment around us is also a matter of great concern.
because saving the climate doesn't mean saving the earth.
and speaking of humanity - and i thought that was particularly important and i want to emphasize that very strongly, and you have the support of our whole group for that - humanity has no sustainable future if human rights are not at the centre of it.
it is essential that the new era goes hand in hand with tackling climate change, digitization, and the ability to leave no one behind.
for example, the islands have shown through energy transition that small steps can have a big impact.
our recovery and growth must be sustainable, and the disbursement of european funds must be based on the rule of law.
strengthen the common foreign and security policy through smart decision-making and renewed enlargement policy to ensure a stronger union in an increasingly chaotic international environment.
and to turn it with all the strategies we know, in digital, in energy, in the multilateral affirmation of the european union.
wenn wir mal den carbon border adjustment mechanism, den co2-grenzausgleichsmechanismus nehmen: am liebsten wäre mir, wir müssten ihn nicht einführen, nämlich, dass andere länder, die zum beispiel zu uns exportieren – also wir hier importieren –, dass andere länder ihr ets-system, ihr emissions trading system so gut einrichten, dass sie von mir aus gerne den preis auf co2 setzen, dieses geld zu hause bei sich behalten, und wir nicht durch einen carbon border adjustment mechanism die schranke einsetzen müssen, dass wir nicht ein carbon leakage haben.
china führt jetzt ein emissions trading system ein, sie haben bei uns – und das ist gut – erfahrung damit gesammelt, das ist der schritt in die richtige richtung.
i think it’s very important to make sure that our policies are coherent so that we’re not exporting weapons and then are surprised about refugees, that were not subsidising fossil fuels and then wondering about climate change, and that we also don’t put profits over human rights when it comes to our external relations – and i’m thinking about relations with china, where there’s lots of important talks going on, but also, for example, when it comes to russia.
social measures such as european minimum wages and a climate-neutral europe where everyone can participate are badly needed.
i welcome all of these commitments on the side of the commission, as i am a firm believer that we will not be able to achieve any of our ambitious sustainable economy goals without technology.
we must also strive to identify the ecosystem of start-ups and small smes that can come up with the future clean breakthrough technology solutions and can create european technology leadership.
madam president, i start by welcoming the european commission's sustained efforts to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, as well as today's proposal to increase the 2030 greenhouse gas emission reduction target from the 40% approved by parliament and the council in the previous legislature to at least 55%.
the effects of climate change have long been felt in most member states, where thousands of hectares of fertile land are turning into desert every year.
then we can make plans for 2050. but it is important that these plans, such as the energy transition, are economically and socially sustainable, so that they can be put into practice.
this conference could address issues that need multilateral solutions, including maritime delimitations, security, energy, migration and economic cooperation.
china is a major partner in addressing global challenges like climate change or covid—19.
we welcome china’s recent commitment to carbon neutrality by 2060. we have encouraged china to take this path.
today, i would like to focus on two issues from the european council where our unity will be needed and will be tested again: our climate and digital goals, and brexit.
first, on our climate goals, which will be at the core of the next european council.
this parliament and europe’s heads of state and government have agreed on making europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050. for that, we need to speed up.
if we continued with business-as-usual, we would only cut our emissions by 60% by 2050, and that’s too little to contain global warming and its devastating impact.
that is why the commission proposes to increase our climate ambition for 2030. we propose a reduction of at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. it is an ambitious goal, but it is within our reach.
the emissions trading system coupled with other rules and mechanisms is proving its effectiveness.
the second question is: do we have the resources to finance the higher climate ambitions?
the next eu budget and next generation eu will make available more than eur 600 billion for climate and green investment.
president michel just made reference to the fact that, at the un general assembly two weeks ago, president xi announced that china aims to achieve carbon neutrality before 2060, and that it will peak its co2 emissions before 2030. the same with the president of south africa, cyril ramaphosa, who declared that his country will aim at carbon neutrality by 2050. these are messages we want to hear and we need more of them.
europe will not solve climate change alone.
we represent less than 10% of global co2 emissions, but we are not alone and this is good news for the world.
we must step up our climate ambition if we want the best green technologies to be european technologies.
now it is the question for you, for the european parliament, to unite around an ambitious climate objective of at least 55% by 2030. and we will push for europe’s heads of state and government to unite behind the same ambition before the end of the year.
just like with our 2030 climate goals, europe needs to up its game.
that’s why we will propose a digital service act in december of this year, and a foreign subsidies instrument in early 2021. third, we must build up the digital capacity of our industries, and for this we need european flagships and alliances, for instance on secure 5g networks, low energy data processing and quantum computing.
finally, we will need all our energy in this final stage of negotiations with the united kingdom.
there are two tracks to which we should devote our full attention and energy.
because the adoption of new taxes, such as those on financial transitions or on greenhouse gas emissions, will enable us to safeguard the public accounts of the member states and the purchasing power of the taxpayers.
some powers have decided to complicate the situation, as if the health crisis, the economic crisis and the climate crisis were not enough.
our influence is through our economic radiance, and that economic radiance is through our climate ambition and our digital mastery.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unlike all the other strategies of the green deal - farm to fork, biodiversity, just transition and so on - the first strategy for forests since the green revolution was activated costs nothing.
a first is to link the concept of agro-civiculture to the future common agricultural policy, with the recommendation that member states make the most of this opportunity for the benefit of the farmer, the environment and us all.
we have provisions for a truly sustainable exploitation of forests, so that only the last remaining wood can be used to produce energy.
in this sense, how can i not remember the images of the tens of thousands of hectares of forest destroyed in my country by the bad weather of 2018. our farmers and foresters must become the real protagonists of the challenge to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. that is why the strategy...
mr president, forests are not just wood.
passing this report as it is would be like looking at our greatest resource in the fight against climate change and only seeing a business.
the report speaks often in optimistic terms about forest management in the eu and less about the protection of forests and biodiversity.
let us all speak about the way forests can help the ambitious goals we set in the climate law.
forest protection provides us with hope, gives us a chance to have a buffer against the worst dangers of climate change.
the european union forest strategy has so far contributed to promoting sustainable development and strengthened cooperation between member states.
it is essential for the sustainable future of this sector that the necessary and accessible levers to encourage forest restoration and conservation are found and local and regional authorities need to step up their cooperation in this regard.
forests make a key contribution to food security, helping to maintain the environmental conditions necessary for agricultural production, biodiversity, and preventing and combating drought.
protecting forests is protecting europe's biodiversity, which today faces alarming levels of threat.
but conservation of biodiversity does not have to be incompatible with social and economic development.
european forests face multiple threats: fires, droughts, climate change, invasive species, urban pressure - all of which must be properly identified and assessed in a forestry strategy that includes environmentally and socially sustainable management, which promotes the conservation of biodiversity, but also social inclusion in rural areas.
climate change is affecting humanity, and extreme weather events are becoming more frequent.
the european green deal reaffirms the ambition of the european institutions to make europe the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. agriculture is highly dependent on weather conditions and is one of the most vulnerable sectors.
romania, the eu's second largest wheat exporter, has been hit by the worst drought in 100 years, with a direct effect on the european economy, which highlights the importance of climate action at european level as well as global action.
the european parliament voted to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2030, representing an additional financial effort that is extremely difficult for member states to achieve.
we certainly all want a climate-neutral continent, but one that does not cause a significant increase in unemployment across the european union.
the climate targets must not put millions of jobs at risk without the certainty that workers in the industries directly affected will have a future in the european labour market.
the eu will legislate to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and set a medium-term emission reduction target for 2030. the vote and subsequent implementation of the european climate law is a historic and groundbreaking act.
the starting points for achieving climate neutrality differ between member states, and countries will have support mechanisms and funding available, such as the just transition fund.
slovenia has committed to reducing co2 emissions by 30% by 2030, and that is not enough.
it's important that we don't fall behind in the transition to carbon neutrality.
we need to tax co2 emissions in a socially fair way so that the damage caused to the environment and to people is actually paid for by the polluters, without exception also by large industries and corporations.
while i welcome the commission's higher proposal of a 55% cut in emissions, the socialists and democrats in the ep are in favour of an even more ambitious 60% cut.
we cannot turn back time, so we must take bold action and fully deliver on the commitments of the paris agreement and the sustainable development goals.
the severity of the climate situation is beyond dispute.
however, there is still hope for achieving the climate goals.
it is unacceptable that parliament, in its petty political game, delays the launch of programmes and financial instruments essential for climate protection.
the european commission and parliament's desire to adopt the climate regulation in the absence of impact studies at member state level is a matter of concern.
member states start their climate action from a different position, and respecting this is key.
finally, we need fair and equitable climate action.
no climate control should increase the cost of the recession.
one such example is hungary, which has consistently reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and its energy prices for households over the past decade.
– the climate law is the landmark legislation of the current mandate of the eu institutions.
not only because it will stimulate record-high government spending aiming to reach net-zero emissions by 2050, but also our ambition will determine the economic and social landscape in europe in the coming decades.
i cannot support a text calling for the binding objective of climate neutrality on member state level.
the profound implications that the climate law will have means that it requires rigorous impact assessment at all levels.
i consider it extremely important to make the transition to climate neutrality, building on the comprehensive impact study carried out by the european commission in recent months, in a responsible, progressive and safe way, while also protecting the eu economy, creating jobs and not destroying them, without imposing additional taxes on citizens.
of course, we all want a climate-neutral europe as soon as possible, but i would stress that the economic effort to achieve a target of over 55% is extremely worrying even for the most developed states of the union, entailing new, extraordinary costs that are not yet identified or foreseen.
moreover, a link with programmes to develop sustainable finance has been hardwired into the proposals.
basically, there is zero time to waste, and if we want to efficiently fight money laundering, we need full judicial cooperation in criminal matters; we need an anti-money laundering (aml) regulation, which we have been talking about for a long time; we need full transparency on beneficial ownership, which we have been talking about for a long time; cooperation with national authorities as well, but a truly functioning supervisory body.
in the coming period, we need to invest substantially in creating access and opportunity so that any european citizen who needs care can receive it in a sustainable way through direct access or within the community of which they are a part, without being socially excluded.
it is absolutely imperative that we provide equal access, so that all european citizens can benefit from healthcare in a sustainable way.
since the adoption of the e-commerce directive in 2000, the online environment has evolved significantly and therefore new ways of regulating, defining online platforms, stimulating innovation and supporting the european digital sector are needed.
it looks at what is needed to enable and foster the development of a high—performing digital education ecosystem and it also aims at enhancing digital skills for the digital transformation.
the banking and financial sectors require transparency, stability and predictability if trust in the investment environment of moldova is to be sustained.
the challenges of our time, climate change, the weakening of global competition, do not allow for the possibility of low-flying.
the new cap must therefore contain clear objectives linked to the objectives we have set ourselves here in parliament on the environment and the fight against climate change, as was also mentioned here this morning.
these are usually owners of a few hectares, which means they are treated as a priority as small farms, and they are exempt from environmental activities.
no one loses, but the real farmers and the environment that we all care about so much, win.
i think what is very important is that yesterday again it was once more confirmed by the european environmental agency how within europe we are still losing biodiversity, and there is a direct link with our common agricultural policies and that loss of biodiversity.
so it’s voluntary, but if you don’t look at how you can comply with it, we come to very vague terminology like ‘you need to have actions to improve the sustainable use of pesticides’.
farmers play a key role in combating climate change, protecting the environment and conserving landscapes and biodiversity.
this policy will focus on the environment and climate, developing areas of the european union, and exploiting social and environmental opportunities.
to deal effectively with this emergency, we need a common and coordinated approach so that our farmers can take a further leap in the quality of environmental services for the benefit of the whole community.
we are asking for at least 30% of the funds under the first pillar to be devoted to ecosystems, the measure defined at european level which will have to accompany and guide our farmers towards increasingly sustainable production methods.
we also want to increase spending on agri-environmental measures in the second pillar to 35%, adding a minimum threshold of 30% for sustainable investment, in line with the objectives of the green deal and precisely to align the cap with these objectives, we also call for a review by 2025 of the strategic plans, taking into account the regulations resulting from the implementation of the green deal, all without undermining the economic dimension of the cap, which according to the treaty must improve productivity and support farmers' incomes.
we have therefore worked towards an ambitious compromise that safeguards the social, economic and environmental sustainability of the sector.
we are more than ever ready to meet the challenges posed by the farm2fork and biodiversity strategies, which are not intended to replace the cap, but to help the cap guide the 11 million european farmers towards common objectives.
when i see the plight of our farmers affected by drought, the difficulty of generating a decent income, the expectations of society regarding food, health and the environment, i tell you that we cannot wait any longer.
farmers need to be able to produce quality food at decent prices, knowing that it is in their interest, but also in the interest of society, to maintain biodiversity, water quality, soil fertility and reduce carbon emissions.
public policy on agriculture, food and the environment certainly needs a thorough rethinking in the european union, but this stage of alignment should not be missed.
mr president, i want to welcome the green revolution of the future pact and the open outlook with the farm to fork and biodiversity strategies that bring opportunities.
that is, we ask farmers to make huge efforts for a climate-neutral europe and yet we want to impose ever-harder financial restrictions.
we ask them to be at the forefront of the fight for biodiversity, and yet we push them to abandon land that some already can't work because of climate and lack of money.
the current reform of the agricultural policy is ambitious, introducing the cap performance model and important environmental and climate change objectives, but the economic sustainability of farmers and the social sustainability of rural areas must remain equally important.
and do they want to maintain high standards in health, food security or climate, in close relationship with europe?
investments and financing would be crucial in the digital and knowledge economy, in renewable energy and in transport, health, agri-food systems.
we also had an orientation debate on climate.
we want climate neutrality by 2050, as we decided last year, and to get there we need to update our 2030 target.
we discussed the commission’s 2030 climate proposal, including the emissions reduction target of at least 55% by 2030 and we’ll come back to this topic in december.
the president of the european council, charles michel, has just touched upon them, namely our negotiations with the united kingdom and our climate target for 2030. let me first update you on our negotiations with the uk.
finally, let me say a few words on our climate ambitions.
the european council has not yet reached an agreement on targets and percentages but, rest assured, the commission will continue to push for europe’s heads of state and government to unite behind an ambitious climate objective of at least 55% by 2030 and this agreement must come before the end of the year.
our next steps will include revision of the emissions trading system, the strategy for offshore wind, the revised regulation for the trans-european energy networks, the mobility strategy and the new proposal for the circular economy.
we are going for at least 55% because this is the only way to contain global warming.
we will become less dependent on energy imports from the rest of the world.
on other subjects there are still disagreements, although we also see prospects for agreement, particularly on trade in goods, services, energy, coordination of social security.
the fisheries sector is the last major sticking point: there will be no economic agreement without a sustainable, fair solution for fishermen on both sides.
we will therefore insist to the end on guaranteeing a sustainable future for our european fishermen.
we must not accept unfair competition, distorted state aid or social and environmental dumping.
if we are used to saying that science is key to the ecological and digital transition, why cut horizon europe?
– this report recalls the essential role of forests for our planet’s ecosystem, biodiversity and future.
it is a reminder that biologically diverse forests, being natural carbon sinks, are indispensable in the fight against climate change, in line with the paris agreement’s goals to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°c above pre-industrial levels.
moreover, i want to stress that trade and investment policy need to be reviewed in order to address the global deforestation challenge in a more effective manner, and by creating globally a level playing field, and take into account the link between trade agreements and global biodiversity as well as forest ecosystems.
finally i support the calls on the commission and member states to develop information and awareness-raising campaigns about the imported timber products and their impact on the world’s forests and biodiversity-rich ecosystems.
if we look at the limitations imposed by the climate act, which was just voted in parliament, and the taxonomy regulation, we find that over time we have to phase out coal, hydrocarbon - including natural gas - and nuclear energy.
this means, for example, that for a country like romania, in the next few decades, it will eliminate 60% of its energy sources for the population and industry, which will transform it from an energy independent country into a country that will have to resort to massive imports of electricity.
the debate on the reports by mr mureşan and mr tang (a9-0198/2020) on the investment plan for a sustainable europe - how to finance the green deal has been moved to thursday as the last item of the morning.
moreover, 30% of eu funds will be used to fight climate change – the highest share ever and a key priority of this parliament, while the do no harm principle applies to the whole of the eu budget.
the agreed package also pays attention to biodiversity and gender mainstreaming.
considerable funding will be allocated to research and innovation, fair climate and digital transition via the just transition fund and the digital europe programme; and to preparedness, recovery and resilience via the recovery and resilience facility, resceu and the new eu4health programme.
we deliver on climate.
we want ambitious climate targets and no money spent on polluting activities.
but have we really received enough funds from the member states to make the european union really fit for the future in terms of the common foreign and security policy, the protection of external borders, research and development and the fight against man-made climate change?
anti-semitism, racism and various forms of religious intolerance and discrimination not only threaten the security of individuals but can also contribute to creating a climate conducive to the growth of terrorism and crime, which is toxic to communities.
not only that, but it's also the year that has to put us on the trajectory of the new ecological pact.
this shows that we in brussels are really taking seriously the health threats facing this continent and the aggressive human interaction with nature and climate change that affects us.
the just transition mechanism and fund seek to address the transition in vulnerable coal and carbon-intensive regions.
the recovery and resilience facility financed from the eur 750 billion next generation eu will allow member states to boost investments that are essential for a sustainable recovery in a fair manner.
the modernisation fund will provide over the next 10 years ample support to the ten lower-income member states, helping them modernise their energy systems and improve energy efficiency.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe will underpin the european green deal and the transition to a more sustainable and resilient economy.
under this plan, the european union must mobilise €1 trillion of public and private investment by 2030. in view of the negative economic outlook generated by the covid-19 crisis, i would stress that the union's success in meeting the climate neutrality objective will depend on the adequacy of funding for member states, taking into account different starting points.
i welcome the fact that the modernisation fund is designed to support investments to improve energy efficiency in the ten lower income member states, as well as the efforts of the european investment bank (eib) to devote 50% of its operations to climate action.
the results of the vote will be announced tomorrow at 8.30 a.m.
the agenda includes the continuation of the debate on the report by mr david cormand, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on 'towards a more sustainable single market for businesses and consumers' (2020/2021 (ini) (a9-0209/2020)).
mr president, we all voted for the european green deal, we all want a healthier, cleaner environment and we all want to get to a zero-carbon economy as soon as possible.
equally important is education, the dissemination of information, both about the ecological emergency we are living in and about how each of us can contribute to a cleaner planet.
on the other hand, it is necessary to find a way to allow producers, who operate in a responsible and sustainable way, to take advantage of the market, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which we must relieve and not impose additional burdens on.
it is also important to mention the promotion and harmonization of european standards that will ensure the sustainability and quality of all products.
in this context, i would like to mention the introduction of the single charger - it was an important step forward in reducing electronic waste and preserving the environment.
in the times ahead, we must turn to more sustainable systems that will make the future easier for our citizens.
as you know, the commission is committed to taking strong action to combat climate change and to achieving ambitious environmental objectives in a comprehensive approach.
the commission has also made clear commitments to mainstream sustainability in the next multiannual financial framework.
once the budget negotiations are completed, we will be able to mobilise european funding to support sustainable initiatives.
for companies, as you know, the initiative on sustainable governance that the commission will present next year will play an important role, but we will also do our utmost to give consumers a better ability to choose sustainable products, in particular, as your report indicates, through credible and readable information on sustainability, through a right to redress, through action against planned obsolescence or through the introduction of sustainability criteria in public procurement, to name a few examples.
i look forward to continuing our collaboration towards a more sustainable european internal market.
the transition to a sustainable and sustainable economy is undoubtedly important.
a sustainable single market strategy must be fair and balanced and ensure that our businesses have a competitive advantage in a global context.
unfortunately, this report does not propose liberal and market-based solutions to achieve sustainability, but contains new binding and mandatory requirements that go too far and lead to over-regulation.
for example, on issues such as the sustainability of the internal market, which we have just discussed, or product safety, which will also be on your agenda this week.
the approach set out in the new agenda will contribute to the implementation of the circular economy action plan and the digital strategy, including through more sustainable and safer products and services.
the new agenda includes actions to improve information on the environmental characteristics of products, such as their life span, environmental impact and repairability.
in addition to environmental and digital transitions, the new consumer agenda addresses three other priorities: effective enforcement of legislation and effective redress, consumer awareness raising taking into account the specific needs of different groups and strengthening international cooperation.
yes, it is important that we consumers know about the carbon footprint of companies when we pull products off the shelves, but it cannot stand alone.
so it is not about making more laws for the sake of making laws, but about ensuring through legislation clear climate targets and a level playing field for the benefit of both businesses and consumers.
it contains two main axes, one ecological, the other digital.
consumers must be able to make sustainable choices and have the certainty that their rights will be protected in all circumstances.
the need to adapt quickly to this way of life has brought to light many of the problems of the online environment.
that is why i am pleased to see that the regulation of consumer rights relating to this environment is among the priorities put forward by the commission.
we will also have to address the issue of those who cannot be consumers because they lack access to this market due to a lack of infrastructure, technical equipment or the knowledge to navigate such a complex environment.
but we all know that no authoritarian regime would ever waste a good crisis.
significant difficulties remain on the question how we can secure – now and over time – our common high standards on labour, on social rights, on the environment, climate change and tax transparency – you know all these standards.
honourable members, with or without covid, there is another crisis that rumbles on: global warming, the crisis of our planet.
and, honourable members, a growing number of countries have pledged carbon neutrality by 2050. good news.
i firmly believe we must all put a price on carbon.
for the first time in four years, the g20 agreed on clear commitments for the fight against climate change, and europe has been proudly leading the way.
by now, more than half of the g20 members have committed to climate or carbon neutrality around 2050. this demonstrates that being courageous pays off, and it shows that we have chosen the right course when we decided to cut back co2 emissions until 2030 by at least 55%.
that is how europe is built, and that is why i ask the leaders of the council to get down to work and not waste a single minute.
they should not waste a single minute on reforming the migration and asylum pact either.
let us use all the strength and influence of europe, as you have said, madam president, and prepare for cop26 in glasgow today, working with the united states to fight climate change on a global scale.
we support the european green deal and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. the council will also have to demonstrate similar determination and unity on the subject of climate change.
it guarantees fundamental rights and values, allows the application of eu law, and supports an investment-friendly business environment and predictability.
in addition, the pact presents several initiatives to make our return policy more credible and sustainable, as suggested in your report, such as the implementation of the frontex mandate on returns, the system of return sponsorship, the forthcoming strategy on voluntary returns and reintegration, and the creation of a european returns coordinator.
we look forward to engaging with the european parliament on the different legislative proposals presented together with a pact to reach an overall agreement on the comprehensive and sustainable reform of the european migration and asylum policy.
– mr president, return is a key component of a comprehensive, credible and sustainable approach to migration.
in this context, and in reply to your report, i would therefore like to make the following remarks: first, we agree that there is a strong need to improve relations with third countries in order to ensure cooperation for effective and sustainable returns.
if we want to make the sustainable and digital transition possible in a fair way, it must be accompanied by social progress.
the recovery and resilience plan must have a strong social dimension with so many plans for social progress that are on par with the economic and sustainable goals.
we have to find the right balance between an innovative economy, led by technological process, the key of our european social model, and modern, inclusive and sustainable social protection systems, and we have to invest in our social resilience.
we have to build a future in a sustainable way, in an innovative way, but also in a fair and inclusive way.
the following is a brief presentation of the report by pascal durand on sustainable corporate governance (2020/2137 (ini)) (a9-0240/2020).
mr president, commissioner, what better transition could we have to talk about sustainable governance and non-financial reporting than the report just mentioned and your speech and that of my colleagues on a more social europe and on social integration?
the challenge of this extra-financial reporting, of this new corporate governance, is to remain in control of our economic, environmental and social model.
what is our commitment to actually building a world that is more sustainable, more sustainable, more livable for all people?
so we have objectives, objectives that the union has set itself, with the taxonomy, with these environmental standards, these social standards that make it a model and an island on this entire planet.
we must now bring this balance between the environment, the social, the human and the economic, which we have always carried and which we must continue to defend, into the 21st century.
we need clear reporting, we need independent audits, we need governance that respects both employees, gender equality, the long term, that takes into account the whole range of human, environmental and, i repeat, social conditions that confront us in the 21st century.
the commission shares the objective of fostering long-term corporate behaviour towards the sustainability transition.
as announced in its 2021 work programme, the commission intends to propose next year the revision of the non-financial reporting directive and a legislative initiative on sustainable corporate governance.
this affects long-term resilience, sustainability and performance.
designing time horizons of corporate decision-making that are more long-term and promoting corporate governance that is more conducive to sustainability would contribute to companies’ resilience and performance.
the report by mr durand considers that company directors have a duty to address sustainability risks and impacts arising from their operations and supply chains.
it also asks that sustainability strategies should include time-bound and science-based targets aligned with the eu’s international commitments.
the commission will examine the possible impact of such rules as part of the impact assessment of the forthcoming legislative initiative on sustainable corporate governance.
we are looking into possible regulatory requirements which take into account the size of the company, as well as whether it is involved in a sector with a high sustainability risk.
we agree to the aim to be consistent with other relevant eu legislation, including the taxonomy regulation and the sustainable finance disclosure regulation.
we also agree that it will be necessary to bring additional categories of companies under the scope of the legislation, and that reported sustainability information should be subject to audits.
we believe it will be necessary to require companies to use mandatory european sustainability-reporting standards.
resilient and sustainable supply chains are key for european companies’ long-term competitiveness and viability.
let me conclude by reiterating that the commission’s priorities are clear: we need to deliver on the sustainability transition and the recovery, which is a very good opportunity for that.
it is therefore key to help businesses in the way they operate, towards a transformation to a more sustainable economy.
allow me just to quote mark carney, the former governor of the bank of england and now the un special envoy for climate action and finance.
today we are witnessing trends in which the achievement of economic objectives by enterprises is gradually linked to objectives that are not traditional for them: the fight against climate change, the overcoming of social problems, sustainable development in general.
that's why i think it's important to help businesses make the transition to a sustainable economy.
by promoting it, we will support the process that should guide businesses on the path to sustainable corporate governance.
it brings added value to society, but also to the companies themselves, as companies that have embarked on the path of sustainable corporate governance are more productive and more resilient.
we need to take a balanced approach to changes in company law, taking into account economic as well as social and environmental factors.
this will encourage the integration of sustainability policies into corporate decision-making.
the following is the agenda for the joint debate on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for a second reading on the council's position at first reading on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the quality of water intended for human consumption (recast) (06230/3/2020) (c9354/2020) (cod) (rapporteur: christophe hansen) (a9-0241/2020), on the question to be answered orally to the council by mr christophe hansen, ms sara cerdas, mr nicolae ştefănuţăn, mr marco dreoston, mr martin häusling, ms joanna kopcińska, ms malin björk and ms eleonora evin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of eu water legislation (o-000077/2020 b9-0501/20) (2020/2613 ((rsp)) and on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european community and the kingdom of norway on the participation of norway in the community programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) ' (com (2015) 0369);
i have to say that i am not in favour of this.
and then, of course, in times of climate change, we also talk about the consequences of climate change: drought.
when people drink tap water, they have to be aware that drinking water, especially bottled water, will require up to a thousand times more energy to transport that water.
that means we're also reducing the plastic waste that's generated by bottles.
it is noted that this framework of our european water regulation is actually fit for purpose, but that implementation in the member states is often either underfunded or simply too far removed from reality to have our waters in good ecological, chemical condition by 2027 - that is the goal.
european wetlands are natural carbon sinks, and these too have declined by 50% since 1970. in our resolution we called on the member states and the various sectors involved - agriculture, energy and industry - to take part in this.
and then, of course, there is the chemical pollution, and we are faced with entirely new tests.
the environment council already had a first discussion on the report on 5 march this year and i would also like to reassure you that all member states are determined to adopt the commission's recommendations in the development of their next river basin management plans and flood risk management plans.
as regards other measures to combat chemical pollution, the recast of the drinking water directive establishes a system of watchlists for the monitoring of emerging substances.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to send a clear message to all of you: the council is serious about promoting a sustainable water management policy which respects our common environmental objectives and contributes to the objective of a clean environment set out in the european green deal.
nevertheless, four major crises threaten our waters: the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis, the pollution crisis, the resources crisis, and, on top of that, we now have the covid crisis as well.
we cannot fight pollution with one hand and do harm with the other.
the biodiversity strategy includes the restoration of rivers and wetlands.
the farm to fork strategy covers nutrients, pesticides and eco—schemes, and forthcoming initiatives like the climate adaptation strategy and the zero pollution action plan reserve a special place for water.
you have repeatedly called for more harmonised criteria on pollution thresholds, more action on pollutants of emerging concern and better information.
now it is making a concrete contribution to climate change, the circular economy, zero pollution for a toxic—free environment, and thus to biodiversity as well.
next year, the commission will present the zero pollution action plan, the first integrated eu framework to holistically tackle and inform policymakers and the general public on pollution of air, water and soil.
we are updating the legislation on environmental quality standards for both surface and groundwaters and revising both the industrial emissions directive and the urban waste water treatment directive in continuous coordination with the scientific community and stakeholders.
our aim is to become collectively better equipped in tackling pollution at source and its key pathways.
we as politicians have a responsibility to ensure that all people in europe have access to safe and healthy water to drink, and we must also make sure that the eu’s water legislation contains sufficient environmental standards.
eu water legislation needs to be foolproof and protect the health of people and the environment.
europe should not lower its environmental ambitions, especially in the light of the green deal and the important role that clean water bodies with healthy ecosystems play for nature, our society and the climate.
by implementing the risk-based approach, we will be able to tackle pollution at source in the future.
today is a really good day for consumers in europe and a good day for the environment.
only through a socialised economy where land, water resources, networks, infrastructure are social property and not commodities, can adequate and cheap water supply and environmental protection be achieved.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, scientific evidence shows that water, also because of climate change, is becoming increasingly scarce, putting human well-being, biodiversity and ecosystems at risk.
the drinking water directive, which we are finally adopting today thanks also to the action taken by european citizens, has this twofold objective: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
this is an important step forward, but as the green deal highlights, we need to go further, to put in place a global strategy that focuses not only on the efficient use of water resources, but also on the objective of water quality and therefore zero pollution for water, but also for air and soil.
on the one hand, we need to achieve good ecological status of european water bodies and full implementation of the water framework directive to preserve and restore biodiversity in lakes, rivers, wetlands and estuaries and prevent and limit flood damage.
on the other hand, the new measures will have to address the negative effects of urban runoff and new or particularly harmful sources of pollution, such as microplastics and pharmaceutical residues.
the revision of the other important directive on water resources, the urban waste water directive, will also be a fundamental step towards defining the parameters of new pollutants and strengthening the measures for circularity and nutrient recovery, in line with what has already been done with the regulation on water reuse.
water is a precious, essential commodity, a pillar of human well-being, biodiversity and our economy.
climate change will present us with ever-increasing challenges that we will need to be able to anticipate, as we are doing in europe today.
madam president, commissioner, because of climate change, water is increasingly scarce for people, plants and animals.
we have too many exceptions and too little investment, too much pollution and too little accountability.
europe's rivers are choked by micro-hydroelectric plants that produce little energy.
because of them, white people are being destroyed in the name of getting so-called "green energy".
i really want my country to be a leader in the fight against climate change, to see the european green deal as a great opportunity, as it is.
however, to do this, we need not only to declare the removal of barriers to education, but also to think about better access to digital tools, strengthening digital skills, debarriering the environment and improving the overall public perception of the vocational opportunities of vulnerable people, whether they are people with disabilities or people from disadvantaged backgrounds.
the strategy calls on member states to move towards more sustainable production and consumption.
the sustainability of this derogation therefore represents a real challenge for some of our rural areas, which are at risk of being severely penalised, even though they are already in a very difficult situation.
we sealed the deal on two crucial agreements: the european budget and the recovery fund, and the new climate goal for 2030. we worked around the clock.
we have the resources – eur 1.8 trillion – we have solidified the rule of law with new and effective legislation, and we have agreed to step up our climate goals for 2030. let me briefly summarise these decisions.
we agreed to reduce our carbon emissions by at least 55% by 2030 and we reaffirmed our goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. this demonstrates our credibility as the global leader in climate action.
our climate action will spark economic growth and create jobs and speed up the transformation of our economies and give us a competitive edge.
third, we have solidly entered our prosperity and our social transformation into our climate ambition.
i know you will be just as ambitious and determined as you were when you were securing crucial extra funds for research, health and external action, when you ensured a clear roadmap for the introduction of new own resources, when you enshrined ambition on climate and biodiversity spending, and when you protected the general conditionality framework.
with this argument and this agreement we set ourselves on the path towards climate neutrality by 2050 and we show true leadership.
just last week, we saw 70 world leaders stand up at the un climate ambition summit and another 60 of europe's biggest companies stand behind the 2030 target.
building on this momentum, i count on the support of this house to swiftly conclude negotiations on the european climate law.
this will be the first ever law that will bind a continent to become climate neutral.
this is to ensure that our common high labour, social and environmental standards will not be undercut.
it's building a new future, because we're investing in climate change, because we're investing in digitization.
there is something in the eu budget, in the multiannual financial framework, that probably does not exist in any national budget of the european union - and i say this as the representative of the council - namely that we are committing 30% of the budget, of the multiannual financial framework, to climate protection.
and here europe has set standards, especially in the field of climate protection, and this has only been possible because the three institutions have worked together in a spirit of trust and dispute.
eur 1.8 trillion means protecting our environment, creating a digital europe.
because we are investing in the future, in a more sustainable future, that takes into account the need to protect the planet.
we are glad that the council has agreed to a 55% reduction in emissions by 2030, but we need more ambition if we are to achieve neutrality, and i remind you that this parliament has agreed to a 60% reduction in emissions.