if we don't start to reduce carbon emissions effectively and maximize the ability of nature to adapt to changing conditions, australia will be a terrible example of an economic model that is incompatible with life on our planet.
we have to get our diplomacy on our side of all allies, and especially all democratic states, but also others, because we only contribute eight to ten percent of greenhouse emissions.
so i say, it's good that the european commission is negotiating and offering help, but we're going to help biodiversity and then we have to put pressure on australia to change their attitude on the whole issue.
(applause)
mr president, protecting biodiversity means protecting the conditions for life.
it's the biggest challenge we face, because we are all very much dependent on biodiversity for our very existence.
we're clearly not doing enough to conserve biodiversity.
our actions are the cause of the biodiversity crisis.
i'm glad that the resolution on biodiversity protection takes this into account for old-growth forests and rainforests, but frankly, we're kind of happy to design rules for the world, but we forget about homework.
the extinction of species and the collapse of biodiversity cannot be reversed.
the threat is not just climate change, but also the decline of biodiversity.
maroš thank you for everything that you did in terms of the green new deal and energy poverty, and i would just like to say that we would like a definition of energy poverty from you and your colleagues in this mandate.
however, the committee on constitutional affairs (afco), the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), the committee on international trade (inta), the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi), and the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) have provided opinions on the proposed regulation.
unfortunately, however, its shortcomings and the abuse of this mechanism by member states are particularly evident in decision-making, especially on sensitive issues that have a direct impact on our food, the quality of the environment, human and animal health and welfare.
so, really, it's not just climate change and not just poverty, but also such serious things as threatening their health through soil poisoning.
and that means that if countries are going to put forward projects for these regions, they need to be helped to really get into countries like slovakia, poland, romania or bulgaria, that is, countries that are perhaps most affected by this transformation, because their energy mix is made up of gas, it's made up of nuclear, and at the same time they still rely on heavy industry, on mining industry, and especially on energy-intensive industry.
it will also allow us to identify opportunities for early alignment and involvement in eu policies, such as our digital agenda or our trans-european networks in transport and energy.
we have to look at what concrete measures we can take to bring forward investments in the western balkans, to enhance access to the eu single market, create jobs and entrepreneur opportunities, improve the business and the investment climate and stop the brain drain from the region.
the new methodology offers a sustainable model, in that it is now up to member states to deliver on their promises and thus to restore credibility to the enlargement process as such.
and consequently, they need a stable legislative environment, because smes do not have the capacity to absorb quickly any new changes that come along.
it must be said, however, that if we approve this fourth list, we must insist that the commission submit a revision of the regulation on transeuropean energy networks, which sets out the criteria for selecting these programmes and for selecting projects for the future.
i am also in favour of moving forward and of the fifth list including, in particular, those projects which focus on the use of renewable resources and, of course, electrical interconnectors and, of course, all intelligent networks.
yes, i believe we should reject this list, and it’s up to your commission to immediately then come up with a new version of the 4th list: a version that would be climate-proof and green deal-proof.
this means that they will not receive any aid from the european union and at the same time energy prices will increase.
we need fair competition so that there is no dumping, so that we can really trade together without any barriers, but at the same time the uk also cannot, for example, apply excessive state aid, cannot, cannot relax from its high european, hitherto european, social and environmental standards, but it must adhere to its commitments in the fight against climate change.
it will be richer, less poor, more market-based, and better protected for human rights and the environment.
moreover, the government of this asian tiger supports a multilateral approach to international trade, and unlike some other countries, vietnam has also made commitments to combat climate change, making it an ally for us in decarbonisation, where the eu wants to be a world leader.
schools are a unique environment for teaching the principles of tolerance and respect, since they can be addressed to all children from an early age.
madam president, yes, fighting climate change is probably the next highest priority.
we must therefore do everything we can to find new instruments to finance new priorities, that is, new money from the national budget, whether it be achieved by increasing contributions from the member states or by new own resources such as a carbon tax.
mr president, actors in the food chain are key to offering sustainable food and promoting affordable, healthy food for all.
that’s why we are looking at the farm to fork strategy as a tool that can help consumers choose healthy food that is not harmful to our environment whilst at the same time reducing food waste.
we know that the total global food systems are responsible for almost one third of total greenhouse gas emissions, and we need to make sure that this sector contributes to our quest in europe for ensuring carbon neutrality by 2050. we in the s&d group want a farm to fork strategy that will help reduce emissions and that reduces food waste, pushes for more sustainable food production and creates new opportunities in the food value chain for all.
ultimately, they are key to offering sustainable food products that can benefit all.
mr president, we are well aware of the massive problems that we can face if the collapse of the beehives and the loss of pollinators and other biodiversity goes really full scale.
we must prioritise the use of economic recovery to finance economic activities that contribute to meeting our climate goals.
in the current economic climate, we need to make significantly more efficient use of the financial resources available.
looking ahead, we will step up our actions by enhancing concrete preparation on strategic communication and public diplomacy, increasing the sharing of best practice in fighting disinformation, and activating more quickly the rapid alert system, intensifying the joint work with relevant partners from civil society and the private sector, stepping up the monitoring of violations of press freedom and supporting advocacy for a safer media environment.
and none of this will be sustainable if the first instinct of governments in any crisis is always to unilaterally and immediately close internal borders.
significantly less money is to be spent on health, science, research and education, resource generation or the fight against climate change.
apart from the tax on non-recyclable plastics, none of the proposed own resources to the eu budget, such as the carbon tax, the digital tax, the financial transaction tax, have been implemented.
i see the announcement of the intention to increase the percentage by which greenhouse gas emissions are to be reduced from the current 40% to at least 55% by 2030 in order to achieve carbon neutrality as a compromise between the pressure from the european parliament and the resistance of some member states.
this is important because these common values help to develop a climate of trust within the european union and make it work in all its aspects, such as cooperation between the courts, but also the internal market and many other aspects of relations between citizens.
does the council support parliament’s view that the quality of jobs and traineeships offered to young people is key to ensuring their sustainable integration into the labour market?
europe desperately needs a good forest strategy – a strategy that would facilitate sustainable forest management for forests intended to be extracted, and strict conservation for those which should remain untouched.
we will see another sustainable harvest in the białowieża primeval forest.
all of these ecological tragedies have already happened, because sustainable forestry was promoted where strict protection should have been the only option.
it virtually demands an increase in wood harvesting all over europe, regardless of its inevitable impact on resilience, complexity, sequestration and biodiversity.
this is not a good strategy in times of climate crisis and the sixth mass extinction.
it promotes sustainable forest management and strict protection.
cap reform must contribute to increasing respect for labour rights and farmers who violate social rights should not have access to european money, as should those who violate environmental standards.
i would also welcome stronger protection of biodiversity, which is also suffering from intensive land management.
a sustainable common agricultural policy must ensure a more generous basic minimum income for farmers and strengthen support schemes for young organic farmers.
we need to establish an independent police inspection in the member states, collect detailed data and create a safe environment for the citizens of the european union.
we will ask the commission to come up with a legal framework to prevent this and make supply chains bringing products to our markets sustainable.
the global preservation of forests and preventing their degradation are some of the biggest sustainability challenges of our time.
we should stop pretending that there exists a single ultimate solution called sustainable forest management, a remedy for deforestation.
in brazil, the cerrado ecosystem is a biodiversity hotspot, home to 5% of global biodiversity.
the conversion and degradation of this ecosystem has been happening at a faster pace than for the amazon rainforest and it is crystal clear that these ecosystems will be exposed to increased pressure to be turned into agricultural land.
i will vote in favour of a call for a legal framework that takes account of forest and other valuable ecosystems and therefore recognises forest and ecosystem risk commodities.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the state of the energy union 2020 report rightly emphasises the impact of the pandemic on the energy sector and proposes a recovery phase that is in line with the objectives of the digital and green transition.
in this sense, i am convinced that the recovery and resilience instrument will be able to give new impetus to the member states, which will have to allocate at least 37% of the resources of each plan to the climate transition.
this does not mean imposing a strategy of industrial degrowth, but starting a process of energy transformation in a decisive way in all sectors, as well as radically rethinking our habits.
i am thinking of smart mobility, alternative fuels, the conversion of energy-intensive industries and the digitisation of energy infrastructure.
i am thinking, last but not least, of the role played by hydrogen, which, in an integrated energy system, has the potential to promote the decarbonisation of the transport industry, electricity generation and construction throughout europe.
but the development of increasingly sustainable energy systems and economies will depend on investment in research and innovation, investment that can further increase the competitiveness of renewable energy, especially in terms of energy needs and costs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the caucasus, africa, the middle east, eastern europe, all areas on which we depend for energy, all areas where foreign powers are fuelling instability and conflict to put us under control.
that is why europe, if it is to be a strong and autonomous geopolitical actor, needs energy sovereignty, which must therefore be at the heart of the environmental challenge of the green deal, not the pursuit of the whims of greta and of multinationals who want to decapitate our companies with taxes on meat, plastics and various follies.
the objective must be to guarantee europe's autonomy, by exploiting the energy potential of all its member states, and italy has all the cards to play a leading role in this, solar, wind, hydrogen, not to mention wave energy with realities such as noel in calabria, thanks to which the first zero-impact tourist port could be born in locri.
mr president, commissioner simson, the report on the state of the energy union brings the great problem of energy poverty back into the spotlight.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one.
however, large-scale multi-dimensional upgrading programmes for buildings and housing in affected areas are also needed, with a focus on the use of circular materials, renewable energy sources and innovative technological solutions.
only by taking such action will we tackle the problem, create jobs and put energy poverty behind us.
mr president, we are debating the state of energy today in very different circumstances from those in previous years, and in these circumstances we must put all policies and tools at the service of recovery and resilience.
good governance of the energy union has to take account of this new ambition for green leadership.
as a member of the negotiating team for the energy governance regulation, i am pleased to see the positive assessment made by the european commission of the content of the national energy and climate plans.
i call for us to focus on the process and its impact, while keeping our eyes on the targets, on securing clean energy at lower prices for businesses and households, on substantially reducing energy poverty, on investing in new distribution and storage models and in new technologies, such as green hydrogen, which will enable all sectors of the green deal to be involved and strengthen the single energy market.
i would also like to begin by thanking the commission for an important report which shows the role of energy policy in our efforts to reduce climate change.
and this year's "state of the union energy" shows that across the eu, we're still spending more money on fossil fuel subsidies than we are on expanding renewable energy - even twice as much.
climate policy must never be something that stops at rhetoric or pompous speeches.
that is why i would like to remind you that just a few weeks ago we voted in the european parliament on the eu's climate law, including new targets for 2030. and these new goals must mean a paradigm shift in our legislative process.
the climate crisis is urgent, and the future is 100 percent renewable.
mr president, the european green deal and green recovery are of rather strategic importance for the union, not only to reach our climate ambitions and respond to climate change, but also in terms of ensuring a fair, yet competitive, energy transition.
since last year, the commission has presented initiatives to step up climate ambitions, not only to reach the target for 2030, but also for the long term.
we need to back the green transition with a consistent and horizontal energy policy, and a modern, climate-neutral, highly resource efficient and competitive industrial base in the eu.
as a conclusion, along this way, in the process, we need to ensure consistency across policies, streamlined green deal ambitions, with a feasible transition leaving no region behind, ensuring the resilience of our energy system and the security of our energy supply.
mr president, renewable energy and energy efficiency are the cornerstones of the energy transition.
renewable energy will provide the majority of clean electricity in the decades to come.
however, huge capital will also be needed to transform europe’s energy infrastructure.
but take gas as a fossil fuel: it can be a helpful bridging transitionary medium to be used in many member states if we want to achieve our ambitious climate targets.
we need to stop talking only about the energy targets, we have to speak about how to implement these.
today our role is to facilitate a just transition, and also recovery, by linking those opportunities with the needs of people who don’t want to fall into energy poverty, where there are already about 50 million europeans.
almost every day we are invoking the european green deal, almost every day we are detailing exactly how we are going to tackle climate change, and then this number comes along, for which we have the commission to thank.
we must also look at the big picture in energy policy.
so let's ban energy subsidies for fossil fuels now!
– mr president, the state of the energy union is an opportunity for all of us to take a close look at our energy policy, to assess the progress we have made and identify the areas where we need to do even better.
it is an extremely thorough exercise to make sure that all the dimensions of our energy policy are delivering and this year’s report is not only the first one since the green deal, it is also the first one since the delivery and assessment of the final national energy and climate plans.
there will be many opportunities to engage with member states, stakeholders, and of course with the european parliament, in the coming months on our clean energy transformation and its challenges, and i trust that this report is a good basis to kick off such a dialogue.
as already mentioned during my introduction, the state of the energy union contains important additional reports, notably, let me highlight again, the first competitiveness report that is part of the state of the energy union.
it shows that green energy is outperforming the conventional energy technologies; also the price of renewables has come down significantly, and the energy efficiency first principle in the renovation wave helps us to create jobs across all the eu.
so lower heating bills for households, and it also helps us save energy, and energy poverty across eu has declined but this is still 34 million people too many who struggle to afford a comfortable temperature in their homes.
so the green deal and the clean energy transition is an opportunity also for the economy to relaunch investment and jobs.
our programme for the next year is to strongly build on these conclusions and we have just adopted the renovation wave, the hydrogen strategy, and we will very soon present our offshore renewable strategy.
but we also made a commitment to look at and assess all our basic instruments when it comes to the energy efficiency and renewables.
simply continuing to implement the clean energy package would see the eu achieving a 60% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. this is not enough to get to the paris agreement.
the eu needs to raise its ambition for this decade now and the impact assessment we have conducted shows that a balanced realistic pathway to carbon neutrality by 2050 requires an emissions reduction target of 55% by 2030. this is why the commission proposes to cut emissions faster by 2030. now let me briefly also touch upon the importance of nuclear safety because i received yesterday a letter from 40 members of parliament expressing their concerns regarding the safety of the astravets nuclear power plant in belarus.
this is also about our energy union.
the integration of the union's energy policy is a key interest of our citizens, as the energy union is a prerequisite for meeting our climate commitments by 2050. my fellow members of parliament!
in addition to climate protection, the other important objective of the energy union is to reduce the vulnerability of the eu member states to energy sources.
the promotion and deployment of renewable energy sources therefore not only serves climate protection objectives, but also contributes to the ability of the eu member states themselves to ensure the security of energy supply for their citizens.
while eu directives encourage strategic self-sufficiency at eu level, some member states' governments, such as the orbán government, are becoming increasingly dependent on russia for energy supplies.
we are fighting to make the union a place to live in today, tomorrow and 50 years from now, and it is therefore urgent that the energy union is set up as soon as possible.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the alignment of the energy charter treaty with the european green deal (2020/2827 ((rsp)).
the energy charter treaty is in need of substantial reform.
however, we know that a successful modernisation of the energy charter treaty will be a challenge, and it will require that all the contracting parties and stakeholders contribute to this collective result.
for the eu, the objective of making the energy charter treaty green is at the heart of the modernisation process.
member states have given their permission, a mandate to negotiate, which reflects the eu’s reformed investment project protection standards, and ensures strong sustainable development provisions.
the commission also has a duty to make the energy charter future—proof, so that it can help us address climate change, and clean energy transition goals, and facilitate a transition to a low carbon energy system in line with the objectives of the paris agreement.
with the adoption of the european green deal and the eu commitment to move to climate neutrality by 2050, the european commission has now stepped up its climate ambitions.
once confirmed by the co-legislators, the revised greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets for 2030 will need to be reflected in our negotiations.
a level of ambition, as proposed by the commission for at least 55% greenhouse gas reduction, requires transposition into concrete actions, including in the external dimension of the un energy and climate policies.
honourable members, let me update you on the progress of the energy charter treaty’s modernisation process.
the negotiations with the energy charter’s contracting parties have started in 2020. we had two rounds of negotiations so far, in july and september.
the text proposed also puts forward new provisions on sustainable development in the area of climate change, and clean energy transition in particular.
these provisions recognise the urgent need of pursuing the paris agreement in order to effectively combat climate change and its impacts, and to regulate to that effect, at national level.
our ambition in the modernisation reflects the eu’s leading role in ensuring that the energy transition happens also in partner countries, in line with the paris agreement goals.
the complex negotiations ahead of us involve a variety of factors, and require increased cooperation, and accelerated efforts, in order to achieve the necessary consensus among all contracting parties, some of which are at different stages of development of their energy and climate policies.
it is our political aim, to ensure that the energy charter treaty only protects those investments that support transition to a climate neutral energy system.
i want to make the european charter a tool also for a clean energy transition that is aligned with our eu agenda and with our collective goals under the paris agreement.
– mr president, the energy charter treaty provides a multilateral framework for energy cooperation that is unique under international law.
today 81% of investments protected by the energy charter treaty are intra—eu investments.
the treaty must reinstate europe’s rights to regulate, particularly on the issue of climate change.
our response to the voices asking to withdraw collectively from the energy charter treaty, in order to allow for the implementation of europe’s clean energy package, must be a deep revision of the treaty, addressing the paris agreement deals and aligning with our green deal road map, in order to reshape our economy into green and digital, and finally secure that this alignment will provide sustainable and affordable energy prices for all consumers.
we must work multilaterally in finally concluding a forward-looking energy charter treaty, with the clear provision of phasing out fossil fuels, with the safeguarding of energy security through the operation of more open and competitive energy markets, while respecting the principles of sustainable development and sovereignty over energy resources.
– mr president, let me be quite clear, crystal clear, the energy charter treaty is not in line with the green deal.
favouring large fossil fuel companies over the environment is not the way forward.
it’s not adapted to the current reality, and not to our climate ambitions.
as has been stated also in the former debate, there’s a fundamental reform necessary in our energy system and we will not succeed doing that if the ect continues to protect fossil fuel investments.
moreover, and that is very interesting and very frightening to see, that it is expected that more cases targeting climate policies will arise, once member states start to implement the commitments that they have made in line with the green deal and the paris agreement, and that is unacceptable.
we’ve made that clear also in a former debate, and in a former a vote on the climate law, where we clearly made a statement on the ect.
we need to put the spotlight on the energy charter treaty and ensure that it receives the attention that it needs.
if we want to prevent catastrophic climate change costs us public money that we urgently need to avert the climate crisis.
because the energy charter treaty as it stands is not and, i repeat, not compatible with the european green deal nor several international legally binding commitments, let’s say, for example, the paris agreement.
we have a problem if we, for example, invest now in gas and in twenty years, we need to shut it down because we have available alternative and ran out of the carbon budget.
the risk of climate crisis is already known to all investors; they don’t need the protection and they should not get it.
because when it comes to climate, we cannot afford to fail.
madam president, the climate emergency, and now also the health crisis, have made it even more evident that we must govern, invest, produce and consume in radically different ways.
the european sustainable investment plan must be a crucial element of this transformation.
it is essential that investments under the sustainable investment plan, both private and public, respect the do no harm principle and that a significant share of the various financial instruments is dedicated to climate and the environment, in line with green taxonomy criteria.
madam president, two days ago, we achieved something very important for our future, the deal about the mff, as well as the next generation fund, is not only about ensuring 30% for climate, but also about 10% for biodiversity by 2026. i’m glad that our colleagues in the council finally understood that we don’t only face a climate crisis, we also face a biodiversity crisis.
but our success to become sustainable, our success to achieve carbon neutrality, live within planetary boundaries, can only be done then when its not about 30 or 10%, when its about policy coherence.
when the entire budget, the remaining 70%, in terms of climate for example, are not undermining the effort.
our integration of sustainability in our policies and politics has to also cover public funds.
today we discuss the plan to unlock eur 1 trillion of sustainable investments over ten years.
i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr david cormand, and congratulate him on his report on a sustainable single market.
the european commission welcomes the imco committee's initiative and the european parliament's commitment to sustainable development.
we share the ambition for strong and multidimensional political action within the union to further facilitate the transition to a more sustainable, resource-efficient and circular economy.
evidence shows that 80% of environmental impacts are determined at the design phase of a product, and that's exactly where the sustainable products initiative will step in.
it will set out sustainability principles and specific requirements linked to environmental and social aspects.
it could enable more sustainable products, as well as the emergence of new sustainable business opportunities, strengthening the competitiveness of eu industry and the resilience of the eu economy.
we also want to ensure high environmental performance for all products placed on the eu market.
the commission is working on criteria and targets in sectoral legislation for minimum mandatory green public procurement, as well as comprehensive guidance on public investment into sustainable infrastructure projects.
for green public procurement to be widely used, the environmental impact of products and services needs to be standardised and must use comparable assessment methodology.
this important directive will start to apply as of 1 january 2022. as announced in the new consumer agenda, the commission will use the future review of the directive to explore how it could contribute to sustainability goals, including by taking into account a number of issues raised in mr cormand's report.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
there is an overall agreement on the goal to become climate-neutral and a circular economy.
it’s also symbolic that we’re having this discussion during the european week for waste reduction, because let’s not forget that prevention is the best way to deal with the waste problem.
but it’s up to us, the legislators, to change the system, to change it in a way that leads us to a climate-neutral and circular economy.
the consumer benefit naturally includes the environmental impact.
we also need to push for the introduction of a single universal mobile phone charger, which would significantly reduce the production of e-waste.
hungarian prime minister orbán or slovak ex-prime minister fico, as well as other politicians in the very heart of the european union, create such a hostile climate towards journalists as third world countries, and they themselves often spread hoaxes.
i would like the council to waste no time and to resume the eu-us trade negotiations with the new us administration.
only with relevant assessments and data will we be able to minimise the waste of taxpayers' resources and allocate funds to programmes with the highest added value.
the court reasoned that the interest in protecting and maintaining a healthy environment clearly takes precedence over the interest in building a small hydroelectric power station.
that is why i am pleased and hopeful about the target of 25 000 km of free-flowing rivers by 2030 as part of the biodiversity strategy.
we underestimate the effects of climate change.
all these measures should aim to improve the quality of life of our citizens and strengthen the resilience of our industry and energy.