the new green deal will have to bring about not only an ecological revolution, but also a social and economic one, a grand development plan that creates sustainable growth without leaving anyone behind.
brexit, the budget, the future of europe, environmental legislation, and other topics that you have chosen, among which i particularly welcome the tackling of the problems of demographic change, the enlargement of the union to the western balkans region and also respect for the union's core values, such as the rule of law.
any deal will have implications for the european union's energy security, as both the us and iran want to become major suppliers of natural gas.
this will play a key role in achieving our strategic goal of becoming a zero-carbon society by 2050. the european union must therefore become a decisive player in shaping solutions to this crisis.
then there's the big energy issue.
there is another pipeline in the making, the eastmed, which should connect israel, cyprus, crete, greece and italy, and which should ensure energy self-sufficiency.
i believe that from this point of view europe must also make a commitment to safeguard the energy self-sufficiency of all the countries of the union.
what’s more, it risks massive disruptions of the entire global economy, including energy markets, but threatens a resurgence of terrorism across the world.
it is important for sustainable agriculture to recognise that it can only be achieved by engaging farmers to meet the objectives of the green deal.
i appreciate that this rhetoric doesn't blame farmers for the state of our environment, but instead provides new opportunities for farmers to fight climate change.
the vote on the amendment concerning nuclear energy was unacceptable to me.
fortunately, this report also recognises subsidiarity and therefore the possibility of an energy mix for the member states.
but the amendment that recognizes nuclear power as important to combating climate change was not passed, and that's why i ultimately abstained.
it is a balanced proposal to achieve climate neutrality, protect the environment and achieve a healthy, quality life within the planet's means.
the proposal thus strikes a balance between the desired objectives of tackling climate change, a just transition to green energy and economic opportunities.
the resolution links the achievement of a climate-neutral society to the renewal of the industrial and sme strategy.
we must see the green deal as both a necessity and an economic opportunity, and thereby inspire other polluting countries to prevent or at least mitigate the devastating effects of climate change in the future.
the reasons are well known: the destruction of habitats, often man-made, the over-exploitation of natural resources, climate change and pollution.
we are all responsible for our bad habits, but we are also responsible for this disaster here, colleagues in the european parliament, with some of our decisions, such as the trade agreements with the end of the world, which are guided more by immediate profit than by the preservation of the environment and our ecosystem.
it is high time we understood that we are part of a whole and that if we do not preserve biodiversity, we will not survive.
the maintenance of life on earth depends on ecosystems, and ecosystems depend on the maintenance of biodiversity among living organisms.
for years, we've faced the threat of extinction of millions of species, from over-exploitation of agricultural land, pesticides, pollution.
we often forget that biodiversity is the foundation of our economy, our livelihoods, our health, our food security and, ultimately, our quality of life.
the latest assessments of the impact of the eu biodiversity strategy so far are not very promising.
let's show the world that it is possible to protect and sustain nature while building safe, inclusive and sustainable societies.
however, given that the transport sector is responsible for almost 30% of all co2 emissions in the eu, with road transport accounting for 72%, and given the eu's ambition to achieve a zero-carbon future, future eu action in the area of transport and mobility will be essential.
the solution is not just structural, as the fact is that if we are serious about achieving climate goals, we will also be forced to radically adjust our behavioural patterns and habits regarding the frequency of car use.
i therefore particularly welcome the proposal to include the concept of sustainability in the title of the strategy, as also provided for in the european parliament's resolution on the green deal.
on this basis, i expect the new strategy to position the social and environmental dimension of the development of mobility and transport in such a way that the latter are not primarily subordinated to economic ambitions, but are adapted to people and the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, at two o'clock: either the new european commission realizes that it has presented a totally wrong list, and so it realizes the error and withdraws the proposal and proposes a new one that is truly climate proof and future proof, or the green deal is a big lie.
but there was one common thing, a common call for more climate action and increased ambition, and the commission shares your call.
we are committed to make europe the first carbon-neutral continent by 2050. and i’m glad that most of you expressed support for the commission’s plan to revise the ten-e regulation by december 2020. because a modern, secure and smart energy infrastructure will sustain this energy transition and help us roll out the large-scale deployment of energy from renewable sources.
with a future revision, we intend to bring the ten-e framework fully in-line with, and fully supportive of, europe’s climate objective.
we will be supporting investments that help to bring about more renewable energy solutions and new technological innovation.
on the 4th pci list, i hope you can see this list as another step forward, a cleaner energy infrastructure system.
two years after the launch of the green deal, sustainability criteria will be thoroughly applied for any projects, including gas candidate projects.
the sustainability tests to pass to be eligible for funds will be stronger, and this parliament will have a greater say in project selection than its predecessor.
i look forward to our cooperation and future dialogue to make our common vision for tomorrow’s energy infrastructure a reality.
and a more modern ten-e regulation will help us fund the right projects to deliver a cleaner, more secure and more competitive energy system for europe.
recent decisions by the european parliament have laid the foundation and the commitment of the european union to a responsible and deliberate approach to climate change.
an energy transition is therefore needed that does not lead to higher consumer prices for energy and food and does not undermine economic competitiveness.
therefore, climate action efforts need to be coordinated with the maintenance of security of supply and access to cheap, reliable energy.
the list includes both a record number of renewable energy projects and natural gas infrastructure developments that are vital to the central european region.
finally, i consider particularly important the smart grid projects that will promote the system integration of renewable energy sources across europe.
the implementation of investments included in pci 4 would lead to the creation of an integrated pan-european network by 2025, thus also achieving the objectives of the energy union.
overall, i agree with the projects on the list, as they both help to protect the climate, increase the competitiveness of the member states and increase security of supply.
the eastmed pipeline and the euroasia interconnector electricity cable are included in the projects of common interest under the 4th eu energy list and concern planning in the eastern mediterranean region.
the development of such energy infrastructure is vital to achieving security, stability and prosperity in the region.
the mediterranean can become an alternative source of gas and electricity supply to the eu, making a significant contribution to the eu's energy security.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction.
moreover, the promotion of these projects is not inconsistent with our climate change objectives.
gas can be an alternative source for the transition period until we reach the goal of a carbon-neutral europe by 2050. the euroasia interconnector will end the energy isolation of cyprus, the last eu member state still energy isolated.
any attempt to remove the list does not contribute to the climate change objective, but will have significant economic and geostrategic negative effects and potentially wider disruptive effects.
and its energy singularity, in integrating global trade, protecting its sensitive products, and also facing the migratory challenge at its vulnerable borders.
the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the eu-funded 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) ' and the 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) ' in the field of climate change and its implementation.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy.
the compromise text of the resolution gives the impression that finance is (again) at the forefront, whereas in this crisis it is essential that our focus remains on people, especially the most vulnerable groups such as the elderly, the disabled, the homeless, migrants and refugees, social affairs, the environment and upholding the rule of law.
decent employment in a safe and healthy working environment, the coordination of social security systems so that no one is caught between the cuts of the differences in member states' legislation, better information for workers and adequate controls on the implementation of crossborder and seasonal work, as well as the elimination of prejudices and the reduction of economic and social disparities between and within member states, must become top of the eu's priority list.
first, we must understand the diversity within the roma community in terms of geographical and social environment and the problem of multiple discrimination against roma.
it is difficult to imagine a fairer, more united, resilient, development-green and competitive eu when funding is planned to be cut in areas (and programmes) such as employment (just transition fund), youth (erasmus+), health (eu4health), environment, digitalisation, research and development (life+, digital europe, horizon europe) and infrastructure (investeu).
i welcome today’s discussion and the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on the changes to the union civil protection mechanism.
the future development of the union and of the international environment will require greater convergence among member states on arms export.
thus, with the exception of a few months when people were put before the interests of the economy, the union is unfortunately still too focused on the pursuit of sustainable (economic) growth rather than sustainability.
they redistribute the land, redistribute the energy pathways, with the blood of the people they draw the borders.
it has also given women a supremacy that has made relationships in our environment rare, blurring what is criminal and what is not.
you have until 14. the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in slovenia we have a serious problem with the media environment, which has been completely unbalanced for thirty years.
because without water, there is no life and no sustainable development of society.