this is exactly what climate scientists have warned about; a warmer climate leads, of course, to an increased risk of heatwaves, but also an increased risk of droughts, and therefore an increased risk of wildfires.
with the completely inadequate climate policies that we are currently pursuing in the eu, the us, china and, specifically, australia, we are on track for 3 to 4 degrees of warming by the end of the century.
firstly, the proposal for a just transition fund does not actually require that the countries receiving grants actually meet the eu's climate objectives.
financial support for coal-dependent regions, such as poland, must of course lead to a phase-out of fossil fuels and a clear transition to renewable energy.
a just transition is about creating new jobs and ensuring sustainable development for the people who will eventually lose their current jobs as fossil fuels are phased out.
if we don't put people at the center of climate policy, we're never going to get climate change right, not by 2030 or 2050.
mr president, qasem soleimani was, in every sense of the word, a terrorist and i believe no one at this plenary is mourning.
we need to ensure that we have a modern and effective climate policy, speak more with one voice on foreign policy and strengthen our defence work.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy, in particular through the european union's climate action strategy.
but to promise a moon landing, in this case a carbon neutral continent, without telling how it will happen, what the consequences will be or even what the effects will be, that's not serious that's populism.
to spend trillions on undefined climate action is to forgo investment in, for example, security, healthcare or other areas of technological development - the foundation for future growth and prosperity.
the fact that you want to put down carbon-free nuclear power shows that in your quest for the moon you can't even take off your ideological shades.
transitioning to a greener and more sustainable transport sector will be crucial to achieving our climate goals.
at the same time, the eu is to achieve net zero emissions.
it will not be enough to have taxes and levies on fossil fuels and on various types of emissions, but we will also have to present a positive vision of the green transition through investment.
we need to invest in alternative fuels and ensure that a sustainable transition is possible in all modes of transport, be it road, air, rail or sea.
europe is facing the future, a future that is about globalisation, increased digitalisation and, not least, the climate and environmental transition.
we need more initiatives for a good working environment and we need to strengthen social dialogue.
europe's small businessmen should know that i and the moderates stand with them against bureaucracy to strengthen the business climate.
we need to succeed in reaching an agreement that allows for good trade, but that is also in favour of the eu's internal market, protects the eu's legal order, does not thumb its nose at environmental and climate policy, and stands up for the rights of our workers and for fundamental freedoms.
and, as chair of the development committee, i’m very pleased that this agreement has a very dedicated chapter also on sustainable development, and this needs to be effectively implemented.
i would also welcome the timetable from vietnam on when to ratify the outstanding core ilo conventions, and i urge both parties to make full use of the provisions in the agreement in order to contribute to strengthening human rights in vietnam and towards the sustainable development goals.
i also urge the commission to work closely with civil society to ensure that growth in vietnam now also will strengthen environmental protection and labour rights.
but with these agreements, our trade will become more equitable, more predictable and more sustainable for the environment, for the people and for the climate.
let us be strategically action-oriented and not waste any more time.
a new strategy must recognise the strength and potential in the african economy, pursue the long-term strategic and mutual interests of the eu and our african partners, and support the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
there are also immediate challenges – climate change, poverty, conflict and irregular migration.
secondly, how will the new strategy contribute to the strategic interests and common priorities of both partners with a view to good governance, human rights, the fight against inequalities, climate change, etc.?
as a green politician, however, i am missing the obvious focus on the great challenge of our time: the climate.
we are all well aware that it is women who are the most affected by climate change, because of economic and social inequalities.
when ursula von der leyen was elected president, she promised to put gender equality first, at the top of the agenda, but when she presented the green package, the eu's climate change strategy, there was not a single word about gender equality.
the commissioner responsible for gender equality, who has the knowledge and commitment to climate justice, helena dalli, had not even been allowed to be part of the work.
that is why, in discussions with the commission and helena dalli, i and the green group have demanded two things: that the eu's green gifts must be gender-equitable and that climate change must be an obvious part of the gender strategy.
women are driving sustainable development, and i look forward to the work of the commission on women.
we also need to have a gender perspective in climate change.
we also need to help achieve the un sustainable development goals, if not in time, then later - to get new targets in place, and to ensure that we succeed in halving the number of road deaths and injuries globally.
with better infrastructure, with speed limit analysis, the roads will be safer, but it also leads to reduced emissions.
in this way, road safety work also contributes to achieving our overall climate goals.
not long ago, i stood in this very room and asked the following questions: is it really reasonable to spend the bulk of the eu budget on climate change?
but we also need to ensure that we have a sustainable and well-functioning transport sector in the long term.
the new interim rules will not only reduce empty flights and thus unnecessary emissions, but will also provide clear guidelines for the aviation industry, its workers and consumers.
a safe working environment shall be provided in all sectors.
we must ensure a good working environment both for those workers who are working in the current crisis and for those who are now returning to their workplace.
the european commission should provide guidance on how to ensure a safe working environment in the run-up to the economic recovery, and ensure that member states and employers comply with the eu rules in this area.
we are all here in europe together in a collective crisis experience, and this gives us a foretaste of what is to come if we continue to drive at full throttle into the climate crisis.
and to all of you in this house and in national governments who are trying to use this situation to undermine the climate policies of the union and the nation states, i say to you: you will have to answer to the next generation.
the way out of the crisis is to invest massively and support the most affected sectors - tourism, services, transport - but not at the expense of other policies, such as regional development policy, which needs predictability and sustainability.
for the recovery plan to deliver clear added value, it needs to focus on social and sustainable investments.
in order to take responsibility for future generations, it is crucial that the recovery plan prioritises climate change adaptation.
we need to ensure that the money is used to reduce the climate footprint of our transportation, regardless of the traffic.
this parliament and your commission will define how the eu steps up to create a sustainable society that leaves no one behind.
what we must ensure is an agreement which ensures continued good relations but which also guarantees us that the uk cannot undermine our good working conditions, our environmental standards and otherwise compete with the european union in terms of subcontracting.
the second: the possibility of a common european debt, backed by the union's own resources, which are not, as some would have us believe, new taxes for citizens, but the possibility of making those who have not paid the taxes they should have paid, or paid them where they wanted to - i am thinking of multinationals - pay the cost of the crisis, or finally to combat environmental dumping on our products.
fourth, the effectiveness of such a large eu budget will depend on the flexibility of its use and the ability to use it to address the real economic problems of countries, not just digital or climate issues.
i welcome the clear words we have been able to find together on social protection, environmental protection, civil rights and also the situation on the island of ireland.
but perhaps i also have to ask ourselves - thank you also to the rapporteurs for their work - why we have not learned together from the corona crisis and the climate crisis and brought new thinking into the whole negotiation.
let's work together to create a better business climate.
it is particularly urgent that we now, in the midst of the ongoing pandemic, put in place a systematic work environment policy that protects even the most vulnerable on the labour market.
the rainforest is sequestering carbon and releasing oxygen, and that's a huge amount of carbon.
the amazon rainforest is also one of the most vulnerable parts of the entire global climate system.
the importance of the amazon for the earth's climate is not something we can debate in this chamber.
we must take responsibility together to build our new economy - an economy where green transition, social rights and gender equality build the sustainable europe.
together we now have the opportunity to make europe more fair, more sustainable and more equal.
there is no doubt that a chemical strategy for sustainability is needed.
it is true that the resolution on the chemical strategy mentions aspects of the working environment, but this is far from sufficient.
the aim must be a good and healthy working environment for all those who work.
a poor working environment must never be a competitive advantage.
we need both a modern long-term budget, which prioritises climate and gender, and a recovery package, which is linked to the ongoing crisis.
we need a europe, an eu, that takes the lead in the climate challenge, that pushes for a fair and equal europe and that really stands up for the rule of law in all member states.
second, we must ensure that the €672.5 billion now to be distributed to member states is actually used to reshape our societies to meet the climate challenge.
this extremely late summer heat is yet another example and reminder of global warming.
in the midst of this, literally, burning climate crisis, russia wants to entrench the eu, not least germany, in a long-term dependence on fossil energy through the nord stream 2 gas pipeline.
if nord stream 2 is stopped, it increases the chance that we will still succeed in meeting the climate targets that we voted on last week in the environment committee, among others.
we therefore face strong leadership, and we face the need for action from the eu as we build sustainable economic growth and create new green jobs.
the single market, the digital economy, climate-neutral technology - all of these will be crucial for the new jobs.
however, we must also push for a more social and ecological europe, where living and working conditions take place.
the council will shortly adopt a new own resources decision which will include a new own resources category based on plastic packaging waste.
the european council also invited the commission to submit proposals for a carbon capture and digital levy in the first half of 2021. finally, the union will work towards the introduction of other own resources, which may include a financial transaction tax, in the course of the next multiannual financial framework.
the same administrative waste, the same waste of taxpayers' money, the same promises of solidarity that are not kept.
beyond being a matter of equality or lack thereof, this is a clear waste of human capital.
it is certainly a common priority for the commission, and i’m sure also, as i heard now, it is a priority for the member states, as it contributes to achieving the union’s objective of sustainable and inclusive growth and social and economic resilience.
the report covers ongoing negotiations, implementation of free trade agreements, wto issues, relations with the us, china, the uk and other important partners, as well as smes, trade and sustainable developments and digital trade and services.
i want to tell you that we in the commission hear you loud and clear, and all our actions are aimed at making sure that the european union remains a global economic superpower, a green and digital transformation leader and a social model for the rest of the world, and that we are the first major economy to put competitive sustainability at the core of our policies.
the council's agenda for 15 and 16 october follows this line, both in affirming a negotiating position in the context of brexit that upholds the principles of good negotiation and in the approach envisaged for greater coordination of the response to the challenges of climate change.
we already have a biodiversity strategy from the commission.
forests and the forest-based sector have a crucial role to play in achieving the union’s climate, environmental and biodiversity goals, namely within the green deal.
the enhancement of biodiversity, the fight against climate change and the transitions to a circular bioeconomy and to a fossil-free society will never be possible without multifunctional, healthy, and sustainably managed forests.
it should highlight a balanced approach between the economic, ecological and social sustainability of forests to ensure the continuity of the multifunctional role of forests in the european union.
forests and the forest-based value chain offer crucial climate benefits, such as the promotion of carbon sequestration, the storage of carbon in wood-based products, and the substitution of fossil-based raw materials and energy.
the own initiative report to be voted on today and tomorrow is a balanced one, and the positions of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) were taken into account in the negotiations.
the report addresses the importance of enhancing forest biodiversity; just to mention, the word ‘biodiversity’ is mentioned 39 times in this report.
the report points out that healthy and resilient forests are a precondition for the general well-being of our forests, as well as for their economic and social sustainability.
it also emphasises the important role of sustainable forest management and bioeconomy at a time when forests are playing a key role in offering sustainable solutions to the challenges of our time.
the committee on energy, research and technology (cern) has tabled an opinion on the proposal.
for me, forests and forestry represent climate benefits, but also the hope that is usually so very often missing in the climate and environmental debate.
because not only does the forest absorb carbon dioxide, it also plays a key role in reducing emissions, by replacing fossil-based materials and products with bio-based ones.
political ambition matters, but it is through new technology and innovation that we can reduce our emissions in the future.
because that's the only way we're going to succeed in reducing our emissions and reaching our climate goals.
forests are home to a priceless biodiversity, and as sinks for carbon, they are crucial to achieving climate goals.
in order to preserve the arthritic edema and to save the climate, we all have an interest in preserving forests throughout the eu.
the eu will of course promote responsible forest management that combines economic interests with the protection of biodiversity.
i am surprised that there is still, at least among some people in this chamber, such a lack of knowledge and understanding of the climate issue.
it's to vote on a proposal that will ensure that we reduce emissions by at least 65 percent by 2030. and then all the tools that are needed to get there, like a proper carbon budget.
we don't have time to waste.
the eu needs a climate law that makes our ambitious climate targets legally binding today, preferably yesterday.
the liberals want to see a 65 percent reduction in emissions by 2030. but we also want to focus on how to get there; climate goals mean nothing without cost-effective, sustainable solutions.
that is why we are in favour of a common carbon tax, of the abolition of subsidies for fossil fuels, of investing heavily in research and new technologies, and of nuclear power and carbon capture as part of the solution.
that is why the liberals are saying yes to a strong eu and yes to an ambitious european climate policy.
that is why we need an ambitious european climate law.
i am therefore glad to be able to vote in favour of the report by the committee on the environment, because it sets an ambitious target for reduction by 2030. and we are demanding a new sub-target.
i believe that this climate law and the way we do things in the european parliament can help to ensure that we can both save the environment and secure future generations.
i think it is absolutely crucial that the eu, as one of the richest regions in the world, takes the lead and shows the rest of the world that we have to deal with this climate crisis.
if we do that, if we get this report through, we can actually change the coal and steel union into a climate union.
so thank you for that and vote for the report by the committee on the environment.
in the last 30 years, we have been able to reduce our co2 emissions by just over 20 percent.
if we want to be climate neutral by 2050, that means we have to achieve 80 percent in the next 30 years.
the industries with the highest emissions are already making decisions about investments that will have an impact by 2050. the security of planning is fundamental here.
for our innovative companies, a european showcase of 'climate friendly innovation' can be a great opportunity.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, my delegation supports the objective of climate neutrality at eu level by 2050. europe can play a leading role in the sustainable transition.
it is good to be ambitious, but i am concerned about the supply that is clearly in progress and where the social and economic consequences are sometimes lost sight of, for example in connection with the increase in the rate of reduction of emissions.
moreover, this parliament expects every member state to be or should be climate neutral by 2050, while we do not yet have an impact assessment at the level of each member state.
flanders, for example - and i am of course referring to the great diversity among the member states - is a small and densely populated region with extensive energy-intensive clusters on which literally hundreds of thousands of jobs depend.
i hear colleagues advocating an energy system based on renewable energy, but without nuclear energy, climate neutrality is an illusion.
we are and will continue to advocate a feasible and affordable climate policy that also puts prosperity and competitiveness at its core.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has on several occasions made clear commitments to combat climate change, and today we have the world's first climate law, which sets out these commitments in black and white, in particular the trajectory we must take in the next few years to achieve the objective of climate neutrality in 2050. this is a mandatory path, which must necessarily start with a more ambitious review of the co2 emission reduction targets in 2030. that is why we are asking for a reduction of at least 65%.
we are facing a public health emergency and we cannot afford to find ourselves, sooner than science is telling us today, in a real climate emergency with equally devastating effects.
acting now, with determination and ambition, is the only way to ensure sustainable growth for future generations.
today we have on the table the largest economic aid package in the history of the european union and we must use these resources in a smart and far-sighted way to start a new economic, social and environmental paradigm.
that is why we need clear legislation, such as the climate law we are passing today, with clear timetables and targets, which says what direction europe intends to take and which direction it intends not to go back on.
madam president, i’m very happy to support the eu climate law today.
despite the difficulties this might cause in my country, in ireland, i will be supporting the 60% target for emissions reductions.
they will live in parts of developing countries that are vulnerable to environmental shocks: on hillsides, in river deltas.
so, what we need to do is to acknowledge that these new citizens will live with the greatest vulnerabilities associated with climate change, having contributed the least, and that is the essence of climate justice based on human rights.
so, in this parliament, in 2020, we have an opportunity to do something that we don’t always do, which is to set aside all electoral considerations and do the right thing, and make a down payment for those coming generations against whose credit today’s emissions are being paid.
we're not going to solve the climate crisis with vaccines, with masks, with medications.
the only way to stop the climate crisis is to cut carbon emissions massively.
i appeal to the members of this house to support an ambitious climate policy!
already today we are suffering 14 billion euros of damage every year from climate change.
if you want to sustain economic activity in the long term, we need to tackle climate change effectively.
we don't have to reduce the climate debate, or the climate work, to climate populism or pessimism.
we can vote for an ambition increase that delivers both reduced emissions and increased economic growth.
but that requires the right conditions for companies to change, investment in new technology and innovation, and also ensuring the availability of clean energy.
unrealistic targets will never reduce emissions.
on the contrary, it risks undermining confidence in the goals we have set together and in climate action in general.
the responsibility for the welfare of the people, the responsibility for the need for more health and care workers, the responsibility for the need for safe employment and a good working environment.
it is clear that the eu's agricultural policy as it stands today favours heavily industrialised large-scale agriculture, and this at the expense of these important, more small-scale, sustainable alternatives and initiatives that exist.
the core of agricultural policy should be a solidarity fund for the conversion of european agriculture in a sustainable direction.
farmers themselves know very well, probably better than most of us, that both climate change and biodiversity loss pose direct and long-term threats to our food supply.
it is a question of a more social and equal europe, and to achieve this we must seize the opportunities of the eu's single market, promote job creation, increase investment, make the transition to the digital society and, above all, make the climate change change change.
forests are one of our most important resources, generating growth and benefit, and have been managed with care and long-term vision by generations of forest owners long before sustainability became an international concept.
the forest is the lungs of the earth, a pantry, an energy resource.
the forest is home to priceless biodiversity and a place of peace of mind.
as a carbon sink, the forest is absolutely vital to our efforts to save the climate.
but at the same time, a warming climate threatens the future of forests.
deforestation is a global problem, a threat to the climate, a threat to the survival of species.
illegal logging is not just a source of environmental problems.
it is extremely important to get more countries to work together on sustainable trade in forest products, and to do so together with industry and in collaboration with civil society.
the eu's flegt framework, which aims to promote sustainable forestry and combat illegal logging, is part of this.
we therefore need to develop and strengthen this cooperation and make it easier for more countries, companies and forestry farmers to operate and trade forest products in a sustainable way.
the strange thing is that they do not demand at the same time economic reforms, budgetary discipline and measures against corruption; that you are so reckless and unquestioning in wanting to give money to states that mismanaged their economies in good times; that you are now prepared to introduce new taxes and burden future generations with debt; that you want to spend thousands of billions on ill-conceived climate measures, which the commission itself admits will not be sufficient or will have any decisive impact on the global climate.
you talk warmly about trade, the single market, environmental cooperation and security.
the investment plan for a sustainable europe must first support the countries and regions with the most difficult starting points and the most challenging transformation.
it should therefore take into account their level of wealth as measured by gdp per capita and the energy poverty rate.
if we want to achieve the goals of the green deal, we must on the one hand respect the transition path chosen by individual countries, and on the other hand allow all available technologies to produce energy from sources such as atomic, solar, wind, hydrogen or natural gas, which is the fuel of the transition from coal to energy.
if we have the right green investment plan, we can create an economy that reduces emissions but also creates jobs and competitiveness.
i have read the report on the investment plan for a sustainable europe and the financing of the green gift.
the investment framework shows that the cost of climate action is at least sek 6 700 billion per year until 2030. despite a record budget increase, about $4 billion is missing each year.
if we are to make these goods and services consumed across the eu more sustainable, then yes, it will have a major impact on climate emissions and how we use resources.
to succeed in this, it must be as easy as possible for companies to change their business models so that they can start offering more climate-smart, circular products and services in the internal market.
if we are to achieve truly sustainable trade, we must break down barriers to trade.
we need to break down trade barriers for sustainable services so that we can allow more repair and rental.
it's what's stopping the climate change.
we must remove the eu's own tariffs on climate-friendly products.
we need to remove the jungle of labels that consumers see every day, so that it is easier for them to get clear information about what is more sustainable in a product and how products can be more climate friendly.
instead of taking advantage of trade and technological developments, they want to introduce bans, restrictions and new taxes - which then prevent companies from making these important climate investments - where the goal is to stop consumption rather than create sustainable consumption.
i don't want higher unemployment or fewer climate adjustments.
i will continue to oppose these harmful proposals and i will continue to push for a modern, green climate and environmental policy that actually makes a difference in real terms and not just on paper.
translating the focus on the green deal, combating climate change and the people-centred digital transition into the european industrial strategy is a priority that the pandemic crisis has made even more urgent.
the report under discussion sets out clear principles to ensure long-term growth, mobilise and attract the necessary investment, secure the energy and digital transition, improving the quality of life, create more and better jobs, promote innovation and strengthen entrepreneurship and the role of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes).
without promoting convergence in development between territories and tackling inequalities assertively, the european union will be weakened in projecting its industrial vision as a reference for the new cycle of sustainable industrialisation on a global scale.
despite the limited resources for such great stakes, the next mff provides a real opportunity for the european union to pull its weight in leading by example, engaging with others and promoting a sustainable recovery, underpinned by our values and interests.
the report takes a position on issues that are not related to global warming, often on an ideological basis, such as migration routes.
that is why i believe that the eu should work to revive the transatlantic partnership now so that it can become more effective in tackling the pandemic and other major international challenges, such as climate change.
to conclude: the eu needs to remain the champion and the leader when it comes to upholding and applying the principles of aid-effectiveness to secure a real impact and to achieve the sustainable development goals.
commissioner mcguinness, we were together at the united nations’ sdg and climate summit last year.
it is also one of the solutions to the climate challenge and can facilitate the delivery of vaccines and medicines to people.
but we also have to start the work of building a new future, a new sustainable economy for the future.
the green deal and the paris agreement should be our roadmap for building a sustainable eu economy and for us to have hope for the future.
i want to see the eu become the world's first climate-neutral continent, and that must go hand in hand with social rights and gender equality.
we also need to have an environmentally sustainable use of medicines.
to achieve climate neutrality in the eu by 2050, the transport sector must reduce its emissions by 90% this while freight transport is expected to increase by 80% and passenger transport by 50% by the same year.
an important part of the strategy for green and sustainable transport must therefore be to create the conditions for a greater share of both freight and passenger transport to be carried by rail instead of by road and by air as is the case today.
when we work together, we can reach sustainable growth and political stability.
the 2030 climate target is good, but it's not enough.
just as there is a ministerial council for environmental issues, for example, there needs to be a council for gender equality and equality.
the climate crisis is here and now.
unfortunately, we have already waited too long for the radical change needed to combat climate change and reduce our emissions.
unfortunately, the crisis will therefore get worse, and unfortunately the proposals now being discussed in the climate law, for example, are not enough to reduce emissions sufficiently, sufficiently quickly.
the key is a europe where sustainable development and biodiversity are always priorities, and where quality of life, public health, access to food and clean water are guaranteed for all citizens.
we need holistic solutions that both mitigate climate change and adapt to the challenges we face.
we also need to adapt our social systems to the climate.
yes, it is about our protection of the environment and the climate and the possibility of preserving and further strengthening it.
we must have an agreement that ensures high social and environmental standards.
however, the need for cooperation to get us out of the climate crisis and overcome the pandemic has never been greater.