in writing. there is much hope for a push by the french presidency, especially in terms of strengthening the rule of law in the eu: the last council hearing took place two years ago, although the rule of law situation in poland and hungary has deteriorated significantly since then. further steps are sorely missed. it is therefore very welcome that france, as the current eu presidency, is willing to advocate further consultations in the european council and, hopefully, sanctions if necessary. the same applies to the conditionality mechanism. it is regrettable that it has not been applied for over a year to date, although some cases of application are emerging. we are therefore anxious to see whether this will finally change under the french presidency! i sincerely hope that the french president's words, which are all very committed, will be followed by action and that he will also make a genuine effort over the next six months to strengthen the rule of law and our common values, which are the basis of our political union.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission is not the coronavirus crisis has clearly demonstrated the profound economic and social changes brought about by digitisation. this is why a clear legal framework for the provision of online services is essential to ensure legal certainty for both businesses and consumers. in some areas, such as the problem of illegal short-term rentals, i could have imagined stricter rules. on the other hand, the new rules on the area of freedom of expression on the internet and the exchange of opinions of citizens on online platforms are far too strict and excessive. there is an attempt to censor through the back door. and this is particularly evident in the completely vague terms "hate speech" and "disinformation". in fact, it is about suppressing unwelcome opinions and content. the only limit can and must be the criminal law. anything else - and i say it again - anything else is censorship. and it is particularly perfidious to try to extend this censorship measure to the operators of the platforms. this is a case of forcing a privatised judiciary through big digital corporations. this is a massive interference with the citizens' freedom of expression and information. to cut a long story short, what's legal offline has to be legal online. the only limitation is criminal law. these new censorship rules are incompatible with the basic values of a free and democratic society.
mr president, the growth of digital services and their companies has been phenomenal. nobody could have predicted 20 years ago, when the e-commerce directive was put in place, that such services and providers would have become so widespread in their presence, that literally they are household names on a worldwide basis. whilst these new rules we are discussing today are focused on controlling and providing more oversight and laying down what can and cannot happen, it is important, i think, to recognise and to acknowledge the enormous benefit for consumers, for business, for general communication. but there is also a very real concern about the enormous power and influence that these companies have, the concern that illegal goods and services are promoted, concern about the circulation of illegal content, concern regarding manipulation, concern regarding the misuse of personal data, and major concern that all of these issues can occur without any form of redress. this legislation will change that. with today’s vote, we will move to make the online space a safer place for consumers. consumers purchasing online will know that there are checks in place to ensure compliance with eu consumer protection rules. they will know that they will not be exposed to illegal content. they will know that fundamental rights are protected. and they will also know that there was more oversight and that they will have more information as regards to how and where their data is being used and who is pitching advertising to them. they will also know that they can turn off those ads. for small companies who want to avail of the single market and want to trade in a digital way, they will now know that there can be a level playing field for them and that they are not competing with illegal content, and that they can focus their advertising to those who want to know of their products and their services. it is important too for these companies that there would be an eu approach to this, that the providers of these services will know that there is one set of rules for the 27 member states. european law for european services to those citizens. so today, as our rapporteur has said, we are going to take back control and i look forward to the next stage of the process.
mr president, in five years from now, 90% of our online content will be partially or entirely manipulated, according to academic research. now that fact should alarm us lawmakers. deepfakes, for example. deepfakes may often be funny or creative expressions and could even enrich our online environment, but deepfakes may also gravely impact our security. what if president putin, for example, decides to fabricate deepfakes to legitimise a ground war in ukraine? real accidents could happen. now, the european commission currently believes the best way of solving this problem is in the artificial intelligence act, where it asks the producers of a deepfake to label it themselves. well, ask president putin to do that. fortunately, my amendment to make online platforms legally responsible for both the detection and labelling of deepfakes made it into the draft report of the digital services act, on which we will vote tomorrow. now i urge you, rapporteur, dear colleagues, but especially the 27 eu member states, to support this new provision on deepfakes, to withstand the lobby of social media platforms and to legislate deepfakes before accidents happen.
mr president, madam vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in 1998, paul krugman, nobel prize winner in economics from the united states, predicted that the internet would probably become no more important to the economy than the fax machine. how wrong he was! today we know that the internet has not only completely changed our economy, but also our daily lives, our society, our interactions with each other. but the rules that govern this economy and the way we interact online are still from the so-called digital stone age, which is where krugman's prediction comes from: the e-commerce directive is over 20 years old. the internet companies have therefore used the past few years to create and enforce their own rules - not always in the interests of fair competition and democracy. and finally, we also have a patchwork of european digital single market because individual national governments have started to regulate themselves. it is therefore time, ladies and gentlemen, that we, through the digital services act, shape and regulate the digital space here, that we create a rules-based, secure digital space in the interests of our citizens and in the interests of our companies, especially the many small and medium-sized companies. there are over 10 000 online platforms in the european union; 90% of them are small and medium-sized enterprises. they too must have a fair chance on the net. i think that if we manage to pass this digital services act with a large majority tomorrow - perhaps we will have to do some more work in the trilogue - then we have a chance to do what we did with the general data protection regulation: perhaps we will once again create a piece of legislation that is leading in the world, that is the gold standard, as has already been said by colleagues. i'd like that very much. thank you to everyone who worked so hard on this. and once again, i would like to say a 'thank you' and a 'good wish' to mrs gebhardt. you were my first shadow rapporteur on my first dossier many years ago in the european parliament. good luck with the next phase of your life.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate this evening shows that regulation has lagged behind technology and that it was time to come up with a regulation of the online environment and i congratulate the commissioner on the proposal she has made. of course, i congratulate the coordinator of this report. there are hundreds of amendments. we have to think that it's not just about money. people's lives are at stake. it's about the fact that through illegal content, through false identity, it comes to the hijacking of fair processes, criminal processes. it's about the lives of children. that's why i think voting this new regulation is a safe step. it's not all solved, but we can do a lot to improve consumer protection from illegal content, we can also protect rights and access, because so many times we get blocked without any justification. we do not want this report to deprive citizens of their right to express themselves, but we want there to be fairness in the content that is put. and there was very little talk about copyright and related rights. and through this report, we can also protect copyright because very often it's used without the real authors being rewarded. i want to tell you that as vice president i have talked to a lot of consumers and this is the result, i have to.... (the president interrupts the speaker)
before we continue the debate, we shall now come to today's vote. the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 6 to 7.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as in the previous round of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 19.15. the results of the vote will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by mrs christel schaldemose (a9-0356/2021).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's the year 2000. if you had installed office 2000 months after it was released, you were an early adopter. google was a start-up that was incredibly successful, amazon was expanding into europe, and facebook didn't even exist yet. now we're in the year 2022. there is no life without these three companies. and we're finally working on an update to the digital legislation with the digital services act. the dsa is fighting illegal content on online platforms. there are clear rules on how illegal posts or products can be reported and how platforms can respond to them. the dsa protects consumers. platforms now need to know more about their sellers so that they can help quickly in case of fraud. and the dsa is all about privacy and transparency. the commission has also proposed that the data be made available to the public in a way that is accessible to all. the european union is creating a proposal for a genuine european digital policy with the dsa, one that puts citizens at the heart of digitalisation. and i'm very happy that we're doing this now, and i wish the negotiators a lot of success, that they end up with a great law.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in austria, online sales reached a record high of over eur 10 billion last year. the growth rates over the past 20 years are enormous. the e-commerce directive is also 20 years old, and it still governs the very foundations of how we shop online. and we know that 20 years online feels a little bit like 200 years offline. that means it's time to create future-proof new rules here and we're doing that with the digital services act. we want to encourage this growth in online commerce while at the same time creating more security for consumers. we want fair competition for businesses and, above all, a good and necessary framework for how platforms must deal with illegal content. that's what we're doing with the digital services act. commissioner, as a digital entrepreneur, i can also say from a practical point of view: the dsa will have a huge impact on the digital single market, because with it we will be doing something like a digital spring cleaning of the internet. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, but especially my epp colleague, arba kokalari, for her excellent cooperation. we have been watching with keen eyes to ensure that the european parliament's negotiating position remains balanced, fair and proportionate. the big platforms must be more responsible with their content, and at the same time we must ensure that europe's small and medium-sized enterprises are not cut off by new bureaucracy. for example, if online advertising is proportionate and legal, it is good for consumers and the economy. but this requires good control mechanisms. that's what we're doing with the digital services act.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. madam president, thank you very much, it is a pleasure to meet you. - i'm not sure. the european union must have the greatest interest in the current developments in sudan. the whole region is affected by political crises, armed conflicts and refugee movements of gigantic proportions. in order to address this, the european union has provided sudan with more than eur 88 million from the emergency trust fund for africa since september 2019 to advance political and economic reforms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. they shall be used to build and secure democratic structures based on human rights, an independent judiciary, the separation of powers and free and fair elections. instead, the spiral of violence continues. at least seven people were killed on monday alone in civilian protests in khartoum, which were met with tear gas and massive violence by security forces. these incidents illustrate the need and the usefulness of an eu-wide ban on exports of security equipment, especially digital surveillance technologies, to states that are not even willing to comply with minimum democratic standards. it needs clear signals and measures. the democratic transition in sudan, which had already been initiated by civil and military forces - there was even a date for elections - must be resumed.
i have to say, madam president, while the military regime in sudan and its militias continue to murder peaceful protesters week after week, the democracy movement continues to peacefully press for the military to step down and for a civilian and inclusive transitional government to be established. this movement for democracy actually represents sudan, not the military who seized power. regimes like this one in sudan are chasing people who are trying to reach europe, often at great risk to their lives. we must therefore make it clear in all our statements that we will not let our commitment to democracy in sudan be bought off by any deals on the fight against refugees. europe must remain firmly at the side of the sudanese people and support them by taking a clear and uncompromising stand against the military and militias of the ruling class.
the european union is taking a very important step towards the single health policy that the european union so badly needs. with the adoption of the plan for the treatment of cancer, we are taking important steps to predict and strengthen the structures of detection and screening. we are making significant strides towards equal access to cancer care. we are taking a major step forward in the challenges of cancers affecting children, adolescents and young adults. an important element of this effort is the appointment of the special envoy on cancer who will report directly to the president of the commission, a proposal from the european people's party. i am very honoured that this report - and i thank the rapporteur, mrs trillet-lenoir, very much - incorporates my amendments concerning the treatment of cancers caused by hpv and the extension of the vaccination base to girls and boys, genetic preventive and diagnostic testing for the early detection of ovarian cancer, and the strengthening of information and awareness-raising measures to address the observed decline in the early detection of cancers through preventive tests. in greece, in the last 10 years during the economic crisis, diagnoses have decreased by 40%, but not incidents. in conclusion, i would like to share with you a conviction: we are creating the political road map for the member states, which should immediately start implementing it. the best policies are of no value if there are no synergies and if there is no monitoring of implementation, if there is no supervision of implementation. i'd like to dedicate today to two people who lost their lives to cancer: my best friend, polygene mastroporo, and my partner, sophia hanzara. they did not live to see this historic european step.
madam president, dear veronique, i would first like to congratulate you on the work you have done and on the content of the report we have produced together. i hope that this week's vote will not be the final word, but that the priorities and actions we are calling for will feed into the various policies that play a role in the fight against cancer. among these policies, i will focus on prevention: 40% of cancers are preventable, and, beyond changes in individual behaviour, it is up to public authorities to take systemic measures to reduce environmental risk factors. it is therefore up to us as legislators to make the fight against cancer our priority and to keep in mind the commitments we are making today when we deal with legislation such as tobacco, chemicals, pesticides, air pollution and the farm-to-table policy objectives. a final point on alcohol consumption, which has been the subject of much debate and intense lobbying. i think it is our duty to remind people that we as members of the european parliament must take the necessary steps to inform in accordance with science. i am surprised to see some members of this house turning into promoters of the wine sector, when we are talking about cancer prevention. that is what we have to deal with, not the farmers.
i have to say, madam president, we in the european parliament are today calling for a coordinated and comprehensive strategy in the fight against cancer. what i do not question is that, of course, all europeans deserve to have equal access to innovative therapies. but we must also not forget the importance of basic research, of investing in research and development in the fight against cancer. and we've seen that in the last couple of years, in the development of covid vaccines, what that can mean. we have benefited in the last two years from some countries having invested more in basic research. and we will continue to benefit for a long time in the future from what has been achieved in the last two years through this immense and intensified cooperation. we must put an end to the fact that we are saving the basic research sector in europe. we always manage to put money aside for our little things. but when it comes to investing in the future, in basic research, we always back off and are far from the goals we set ourselves. this has to end if we're going to win the fight against cancer.
in writing. pegasus, a software which if misused can be used as an invisible weapon against unwelcome critics, and sadly in some countries will be, is causing great damage to the rule of law and democracy. the recent scandal is a wake-up call to the whole world and reveals deep problems in the system: pegasus, originally developed for counter-terrorism, is now being used against opposition and civil society. journalists, lawyers, opposition politicians can no longer do their work confidently and independently with their personal devices, because every word, every photo and every file on their devices can be tracked and used against them. and in a way that they have little chance of noticing it themselves. this is a massive invasion of the privacy and fundamental rights of european citizens! civil society organisations so intimidated will no longer speak out in the future for fear of surveillance or potential slapp lawsuits. but strong democracies need these critical voices to question the actions of those in power. these voices must not be silenced by anyone! the governmental interception of european citizens must end immediately and all cases must be fully investigated!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. less than a year ago, we adopted here in the european parliament the new eu-africa strategy for a partnership for sustainable and inclusive development. now it's time to put them into practice. our close cultural and economic ties with africa are threatened by natural disasters, political crises, violent conflicts, and the influence of russian and chinese actors. the stability of africa has an impact on europe. it must be in our common interest that young people want to and can stay in their home countries. if we only saw one side of africa, we would be on the wrong track. the eu is already one of the most important partners and the african continent is undergoing dynamic and vigorous development. we can support them in our own best interests by participating in the development of health, social and educational systems, by promoting democracy, the rule of law and good governance, as well as freedom of the press and media and a vibrant parliamentarism. and europe can and will benefit from the promotion of the economy and the green and digital transformation. let's set up a date.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. these reports again show quite clearly where the eu is failing. claim and reality are worlds apart. the eu would like to be the global guardian of freedom, democracy, peace and human rights. but even in her own neighborhood, she is not taken seriously. in the current conflict in ukraine, the eu is only listened to out of politeness, if at all. in syria, the eu has been a mere spectator, and even turkey is playing the eu by the nose. but the main concern of the eu is whether enough women are involved in military operations and whether everything is really gender-equitable. it is not surprising that these are the problems of the eu. and while the eu is dealing with problems in central africa, it is not even able to build up an effective external border protection. and that alone shows how far-fetched and unrealistic this policy is. and when i read in the report about the eu's strategic autonomy, i have to ask myself how this strategic autonomy can be tolerated when the commission is destroying the agricultural foundations of europe and thus the food supply with its farm-to-fork strategy and when the commission is destroying the industrial foundations of europe with its green deal. finally, a point which illustrates very well the madness of the eu: the report calls for efforts to promote the creation of new enterprises and capital investment in the defence sector. this is one of the few sensible demands in this report. but at the same time the commission is working on a proposal for a social taxonomy which would classify investment in the defence industry as socially harmful. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is the eu in 2022.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. my dear colleagues! the single market is the foundation of the european union. the abolition of restrictions on the movement of goods and services has undoubtedly been a key factor in creating prosperity and economic growth in the member states that joined the community after 2004. however, despite clear evidence that free trade and the freedom to provide services have a clear positive impact on our economy, there are still many non-tariff barriers that inhibit the potential of european businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, operating in a cross-border environment. this is particularly worrying in the services sector, which is over-regulated in many sectors and is also negatively affected by the lack of cooperation between administrations and effective and rapid redress tools at european level. we are constantly witnessing a growing wave of protectionism in the member states, which is resulting in restricted access to national markets, including for companies that post workers. this approach threatens the idea of a common market from which businesses and consumers alike benefit. it also hinders the implementation of ambitious projects such as the industrial strategy for europe and the green deal, which cannot succeed without a well-functioning single market. a particular example is the road transport sector, which is of strategic importance for the smooth functioning of the european economy. carriers, especially from central and eastern european countries, are exposed to the risk of costly and unnecessary red tape outside the country of registration, disproportionate financial penalties and often unjustified actions by national control authorities. the development of the digital single market also faces a number of non-tariff barriers that limit its potential and prevent consumers from accessing products and services offered in other member states. in view of the ongoing digital transformation of the european economy, removing barriers to the development of electronic commerce appears to be one of the key challenges for the european commission. unfortunately, most initiatives to tackle the existing and most burdensome non-tariff barriers are ineffective or face strong political resistance in the legislative process, as demonstrated by the months-long attempts to remove from the mobility package the absurd and environmentally harmful obligation for trucks to return to their country of registration every 8 weeks. the pandemic has clearly shown that in a crisis situation, fluid trade and the free flow of services are highly vulnerable to disproportionate action by national authorities and to a lack of harmonisation and cooperation between member states. the disruption of supply chains in the single market has seriously threatened the stability of production and distribution, in particular in sectors crucial to the fight against the health crisis. a single market free of unnecessary barriers is the best guarantee for the rapid recovery of the european economy after the covid crisis. by making effective use of digital services and by widespread implementation of egovernment tools at european and national level, we can eliminate a significant number of obstacles faced by businesses operating in more than one member state. i thank all the co-rapporteurs and our advisers and assistants for their substantive and non-political cooperation on this very important report. we have managed to build a compromise that takes into account the demands of all groups. i hope that the commission will use our recommendations and recommendations in the work of the smet single market enforcement task force. we see the goodwill of many commission officials and their desire to fight effectively against barriers to cross-border trade, the posting of workers and the free movement of services. unfortunately, their commitment and initiative are often stifled and blocked by political pressure from their superiors, including the commissioners. i would like this report to be an incentive to break down these kinds of restrictions in decision-making and to be a powerful argument in discussions about the future of the european union, which is first and foremost a community of economic interests. i urge you to support this report and thus the single market without barriers.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, we are proud of our single market. it contributes to a thriving european economy, and it allows citizens and businesses to fully benefit from the four freedoms and consumers to enjoy more choice at better prices. furthermore, a performing and well-functioning single market projects our influence globally, including to lead in the green and digital transitions. nevertheless, too many barriers still continue to hamper the functioning of our market and, without doubt, there is a significant untapped potential for further integration. it is more important to remove excessive barriers, paying specific attention to removing obstacles to cross-border provision of services and related administrative burden. the pandemic also highlighted that, in times of crisis, we need to be able to better address possible shortages of critical products following supply chain disruptions, and to ensure free movement of people, goods and services. for all these reasons, we shall therefore propose a single market emergency instrument to strengthen the resilience of the single market and ensure greater transparency and coordination when a critical situation emerges. the commission has already presented the contingency plan for ensuring food supply and food security in times of crisis and is also preparing a contingency plan for transport. the pandemic has also underlined the need to address the previously existing barriers in order to unlock the full potential of the single market. specifically, along with the updated industrial strategy that we presented last year, we published the first annual single market report, which gave an overview of the pertinent single market barriers, ecosystem by ecosystem, and analysed the progress made in tackling them. this work will continue in future editions. the implementation and enforcement of the single market rules remain a top central political priority for this commission. we will use all preventive and reactive means, as well as all possible formal and informal tools, to achieve this founding objective of ensuring the free circulation in a space with no barriers for citizens and stakeholders. we will continue to work hand in hand with member states and the european parliament on the implementation of specific actions and horizontal measures of the long—term action plan for better implementation and enforcement. in this respect, the single market enforcement task force has become a key vehicle for coordinated response and work to address remaining barriers. the persistent barriers in the services sector, which the rapporteur has rightly underlined, deserve particular attention. the economic performance of the single market for services can be improved by reducing regulatory barriers and ensuring that any remaining restrictions are justified and proportionate. in parallel to this important work on enforcement, the commission is planning targeted initiatives, such as a common electronic form for the declaration of the posting of workers and the use of european service standards as a tool to address cross-border barriers and increase consumer confidence in cross-border provision of services. tackling barriers entails a holistic approach, which your report precisely mirrors, in particular, the harmonisation of standards around public procurement. we share the parliament’s view that public procurement should not be detrimental to the single market, but rather strengthen its resilience. to do so, the commission is laying several building blocks, such as the proposal on distortions caused by foreign subsidies that you are well aware of. a final point on standardisation: we presented a standardisation strategy very recently, last week, which was very well received by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco). this strategy will ensure that european industrial and technological leadership and clout are projected internationally. good governance of our standardisation systems, based on our common values and the clear priority, will consolidate the role of the european union as the world’s setter of global standards.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the single market is one of the great successes of the european project, representing 56 million jobs and generating 25% of the union's gdp. despite these achievements, its potential is still to be realised. a wide range of non-tariff barriers prevent us from fully achieving our objectives. the european people's party is committed to overcoming these obstacles of various kinds: complex administrative procedures, lack of accessible information, legal obstacles, unequal access to public procurement and many others. as a shadow rapporteur in the imco committee, in this report i have sought to make my contribution by suggesting measures to combat the growth of protectionism which we are seeing in many member states and to help reduce red tape, especially for smes. i welcome the report and its rapporteur, this report which we are voting on tomorrow and which is a broad compromise. we have agreed on a set of concrete recommendations to the european commission and the member states. it is urgent that the european union should direct its resources towards issues affecting the single market, removing all barriers. finally, let me mention digitalisation, artificial intelligence and new technologies in general, which should be given special attention because of their potential to reduce current obstacles and because they offer new opportunities, in particular through the completion of the digital single market, for the benefit of consumers and businesses, especially smes.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr sadowski, and also the shadow rapporteurs for the constructive negotiations and the good compromises. i believe that we achieved a correct balance between economic freedoms, social rights and the interests of consumers, workers and businesses, as well as the general interest, instead of focusing only on the economic benefits that the single market can grant. we have a text that remains focused on committee on internal market and consumer protection (imco) competences, and we always draw clear distinctions between justified and unjustified barriers. we also find it crucial that we clarified what gold—plating means, and that the report correctly distinguishes it from setting of higher standards that go beyond eu—wide minimum standards for environmental and consumer protection, as well as healthcare and food safety. it is also extremely important for us – as is clearly stated in the text – that member states keep their right to regulate and the pursuit of legitimate public policy objectives such as protection of the environment and consumer or employment rights. let me also underline that we agreed to call on the commission to propose ways to remove unjustified geo—blocking, and we made sure to have a clear reference to territorial supply constraints, which are clearly hampering the development of the single market and its potential benefit for the consumers. i must also highlight that for s&d it was and will always remain a key issue that economic freedom cannot be put on an equal footing with fundamental rights. in this report, we also clearly stand against state—sponsored discrimination that can establish a non—tariff barrier, such as happened in the homophobic and transphobic russian—style hungarian law on lgbti propaganda. i guess we all agree that we already voted a good report at imco level, but we also believe in the special protection of the public services, especially based on their general interest role, and this is why we intend to include this in the report by supporting amendment 2. we are convinced that this report will serve to strengthen the single market, and therefore s&d will support this report.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. our common internal market is one of the great achievements of the union, and it is the freedom and the freedom of the market that creates prosperity. but the european single market is still not able to reach its full potential, on the contrary, it is under constant attack from short-term, short-sighted policies. regulatory unilateralism and national isolationism are endangering our european prosperity. it is also a story, ironically, of the occasional encounter between left and right in europe, when it comes to condemning wage dumping by our fellow citizens in the eu, or when it comes to saying: "well, we make better rules at home". we liberals are fighting hard against all the barriers to trade: excessive bureaucracy, for example, but also over-regulation and gold plating or the simple ignoring of common standards. all this is always at the expense of consumers and jobs. the strategy we have developed here creates a freer market for free citizens. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the co-negotiators. the commission is of course in the lead, but above all the member states, who are really being asked here to stop, for the good of all, undermining the internal market with individual rules which go against what we all stand for.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we consider what is happening in the eu today, with the erosion of the rule of law and the violation of fundamental rights, one thing is clear: we urgently need vibrant democracies in europe and therefore a strong civil society. we must now see where this leads when, in individual member states, they are increasingly intimidated or their work is made more difficult or more difficult. it has a massive impact on a society when helping hands fall off or critical voices are silenced. the european association statute can bring about a paradigm shift in this area. ngos, as important drivers of civil society, would have full access to the internal market. the new statute can create space for a genuine pan-european civil society and thus the basis for cross-border cooperation, made possible by clear, uniform definitions and minimum standards. a toast to a vigilant civil society in defense of living democracies!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as has been said many times, the situation is serious. the danger of war in europe, in eastern europe, is as real and as present as it has been for a long time. and much has been said about the background and the context. yes, russia bears responsibility for this escalation, and therefore our european call for russia to withdraw its troops from the borders must also be valid. our main objective as europeans - and this should be clearly stated and underlined - is to prevent war. dialogue and de-escalation is our most important objective. we want peace throughout europe. the people of ukraine have rightly earned a life of peace. but the people of russia also want to live in a democracy and do not want this military threat as it exists now. all actors must get out of this escalation of violence. we are not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a member of the wto, but that it is a member of the wto.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by reminding you that hungary was the country where the fall of the iron curtain began. at that time, hungary was leading the freedom movement in europe. what about today? the freedom fighters of the past have succumbed to the temptations of authoritarianism and turned hungary into a façade democracy. my heartfelt wish is that hungary belongs to europe, but being part of something brings rights and obligations. and being a member of the eu, you are obliged to respect the eu treaty, and a cornerstone of that is and remains, hopefully, that democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are non-negotiable. the court of justice has made this clear in its judgment today. it is a pleasure to see you, commissioner, but it is a great pity that the president-in-office is not here to take part in the debate in person. in any case, there are no longer any excuses for not applying the mechanism. the expected verdict is in. please use the next two and a half years to finally apply the rule of law mechanism, bring the article 7 procedure to life, bring the corruption prosecutor into the country, end the harassment of ngos, journalists and opposition figures, and restore an independent judiciary. i am not insisting on this because i am right, but because i firmly believe in a hungarian in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, thank you and good to see you. commissioner, dear colleagues, tomorrow’s vote on the eurovignette goes far beyond the actual text. it is the first piece of legislation which will play a crucial role in light of the green deal targets, and the sad truth is that this legislation is not fit for this job. it couldn’t possibly be more distant to our own ep first reading position. if we as parliament agree with the text on the table, then we send a bad message. we would tell everyone in europe that the european parliament will not defend the integrity of the internal market. we would tell everyone that the european parliament will not do everything to shift goods from road to rail, and we would tell everyone that we are not willing to really go for the user- and polluter-pays principle. with the text on the table, we even assist member states to go for double and triple taxation. literally everything in this text can be changed by the member states whenever they want and this does not provide stability, long-term predictability and resilience. this is not a european approach. liebe kollegen, selbst das prinzip der subsidiarität wird nicht mehr beachtet. in meiner heimat wird der längste eisenbahntunnel der welt gebaut. doch selbst der parlamentsvorschlag von diesem haus eines zweckgebundenen mautaufschlags zur finanzierung genau solch notwendiger infrastrukturprojekte auf unserem kontinent hat ein vetorecht anderer mitgliedstaaten. die euro-vignette, so leid es mir tut, hat den namen „europäisches gesetz“ nicht verdient. die abstimmung morgen ist auch eine abstimmung darüber, wie ernst wir es mit der erreichung unserer ziele nehmen, sei es die verlagerung auf die schiene oder das prinzip der technologieneutralität. ich bitte daher um die unterstützung der änderungsanträge der evp und der grünen.
the commission has already done so. for europe, swift action is the order of the day. the european union must condemn and respond decisively to the military takeover in burkina faso, and also help to combat the causes of this development, so that coup d'état after coup d'état in africa does not continue to follow one another and there is no domino effect. since 2015, armed islamist groups have been terrorizing the population with attacks. thousands of people have been killed in violent attacks in burkina faso. one and a half million people have been displaced, mainly in the triangle of burkina faso, mali and niger. this destabilisation is fuelling civil unrest and protests. the local security forces were barely able to counter the terrorists. the whole sahel region is shaken by insecurity and fear of islamist terrorism, which is creating a fertile ground for anti-democratic developments. the result: burkina faso, another west african state, has left the path of democracy. the new military leadership has appointed a commission to restore constitutional order, but now it must act. the imprisoned president kaboré and other political prisoners must be released immediately, and a concrete timetable for free elections must be set. burkina faso must be given every support to protect its people from the ongoing acts of jihadist terror, so that people no longer have to flee from violence, hunger and lack of prospects.
in writing. the russian aggression against ukraine is a very sad moment in our history. it is not only contrary to international law but also to the dignity and right of the ukrainian people to live in peace. as europeans, it is our responsibility to support ukraine in the best possible way within the existing framework. my colleagues in the european parliament and i are therefore sending a clear message: russia's aggression must be punished in a consistent manner. in the resolution adopted by the special plenary of the european parliament we emphasize that the russian invasion of ukraine is unacceptable to the european community and that all registers must now be opened. we support effective sanctions that show putin that his war crimes, which violate international law, must stop immediately. this includes the immediate exclusion of russia from the swift payment system. the people of ukraine need to know that we are unconditionally on their side and will not leave them alone. the reception of refugees must not be an empty promise, but must be organized immediately and for all people. we have been hesitant about russia for too long, and now we must break free from dependencies and thus no longer allow our european values of democracy, the right to freedom and the rule of law to be destabilised.
in writing. a democracy without a vibrant civil society a key element is missing: citizens are individuals with different needs and ideas of how to live together. and it needs a good space and opportunities for those citizens who want to contribute to the shaping of social life together. this area must be protected from excessive interference. through targeted intimidation actions against civil society organisations, private companies and government agencies are attempting to reduce or outright prohibit civil society involvement in certain areas. the increasingly authoritarian structures in some eu member states are leaving fewer and fewer opportunities for design, and only more organisations close to government are able to survive. but various organizations that advocate for the integration of refugees, for search & rescue operations in the mediterranean, for women's rights, for lgbtiq rights and the rights of other minorities, or simply express themselves with critical reporting on the work of the government are indispensable! they strengthen our community as a whole and protect our democracy. and last but not least, it is often these very organizations that provide humanitarian aid in humanitarian crises, as in the ukraine at the moment, and are therefore indispensable to society. we must remove the obstacles which are increasingly being placed in the way of these organisations and actively promote unbureaucratic access to funding and a functioning framework for their activities.
the commission has already done so. sports fields and stands are places where racism can be addressed and overcome. but: game cancellation due to racist insults against nigerian goalkeeper maduka okoye in the netherlands on saturday, racist insults against israeli soccer pro josef ganda by fans in the austrian soccer bundesliga on sunday. this weekend, racist incidents have been repeated at sporting events in europe, which are a clear reminder of the urgent need to combat all forms of discrimination. the media-documented cases from professional sports are just the tip of the iceberg. for many amateurs and young people in europe, discriminatory experiences on the sports pitch are still a sad reality. and sport is one of the most important factors for social cohesion and an equal society. nowhere can integration take place so easily. sports clubs and associations play a key role in social inclusion and the transmission of common european values. on the field, the rules of the game apply. where you come from or your social status are irrelevant.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the committee, as well as the chairman, raphaël glucksmann, who has worked hard with us all for two years. when the committee was set up, we all knew that disinformation was a problem. but as the committee began its work, with each hour of work we came to realize more and more how big the problem is and that it is in fact much, much bigger and more serious than we ever dared to believe. the timing of today's debate and the reporting of it shows once again the extreme importance and urgency of this issue. the russia-ukraine conflict or the russian invasion of ukraine is only the endpoint of a months-long, year-long information war of russia against ukraine. and we've also seen in the last few weeks and months before the invasion, how much the disinformation attacks on the internet have also increased massively. so we cannot take disinformation and disinformation attacks on our democracy lightly. these attacks go hand in hand with the brutal restriction of media freedom, for example in russia. the only laws that have been passed in the last week show that. but the committee's two years of intensive work have also shown that there are attacks from abroad. this isn't just about russia. other actors are also active here: china, turkey, other countries are also involved in this information war. there is support from within, from within the european union. the right-wing parties and politicians in particular are heavily involved in this, both through statements and often through the financing of their political campaigns by foreign powers. we have also been very critical of the role of social media platforms, because the fight against disinformation cannot be left to the social media platforms themselves. if you think self-regulation will solve the problem, you are wrong. the algorithms, combined with the counter-influence of disinformation and the inclusion of the negative impact on society, and the fact that this also creates value, i.e. the profit of the social media platforms, show how serious the problem is. and here we must also continue to rely more on regulation and strict measures. but we must also close the loopholes that allow, for example, in the financing of political parties, for parties in europe to be financed from abroad, which then also carry the disinformation attacks and interests of foreign countries into the european union. and we need to make our infrastructure more capable of meeting this challenge as well. vice-president borrell has already announced many measures. we must make all institutions aware of the seriousness of the problem. i therefore welcome the fact that the work of this committee will continue in the near future. we are not at the end of this report. the report makes a lot of things clear, and very, very explicit: the involvement of european far-right parties, the involvement of individual former european politicians, the holes in our party funding as well as the social media platforms. but what this is really about is this: we have to protect our democracy, our model of living in an open society, our system of free speech -- protect against misinformation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. polish women are putting their baby carriages on the border for exhausted ukrainian mothers. across europe, volunteer initiatives are showing people fleeing war zones that they are not alone. finally solidarity with refugees thank you! europe is showing that it is there for them, and we are finally showing that we can act in solidarity, socially and politically. the temporary protection directive was an important first step. but we must not rest on our laurels now, we must actually implement the promised access to work and education and health care. no human being should be left behind. we must now fill this much-struggled sentence with action! all people fleeing the war in ukraine must be given protection, regardless of their passport, regardless of the colour of their skin. and let us not forget, under the impact of this crisis, those people who have been enduring for so long in deplorable conditions in camps or on other european borders, totally unprotected. solidarity with refugees at last. please, please, please!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am concerned about two aspects of the situation in bosnia-herzegovina. on the one hand, despite more than two decades of efforts, bosnia and herzegovina remains an extremely fragile state, held together mainly by external pressure. some even speak of a failed state, and it would be quite irresponsible to want to abandon this hard-won compromise now - in the present situation - a compromise that is far from perfect, but which has at least stopped the bloodshed. but to want to take such a fragile state into the eu now on the rocks would be completely irresponsible. this will not solve any problems, but it will create many new ones. on the other hand, bosnia and herzegovina is also, unfortunately, a prime example of the growing chinese influence in the balkans. a german daily newspaper has summed up this point quite succinctly. it says that the balkans are the central lever for china's attack on europe. china's investment in bosnia and herzegovina is part of that attack, and that must be clear to everyone in this house by now. the development of critical infrastructure, such as power stations or transport routes, is therefore particularly problematic. the share of chinese loans in bosnia-herzegovina's external debt is already more than 10%. the dependence is growing and it is therefore important to counteract this development. it requires direct approaches. instead of constantly threatening with a moral finger, we need pragmatic and effective aid, but not eu membership, which would create more problems than solutions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the situation in the western balkans is more than precarious. it is dangerous and explosive, especially in bosnia and herzegovina. and the russian aggression, which we have been discussing all week, can easily and quickly spread to the balkans. and one of the people responsible for this is milorad dodik, who is doing everything in his power, precisely in republika srpska, to destroy the unity of bosnia and herzegovina, step by step, piecemeal. and so it is high time that the european union should be much more forceful, much more radical in its support for the unity of bosnia and herzegovina and not only threaten people like milorad dodik with sanctions, but also impose them if necessary. and besides that, we must also be clear: the european union must become much more united. hungary and croatia must also be involved. and we must finally, as the european union, make good on the promise we made to the western balkans to give all countries the prospect and opportunity of accession in the context of reforms!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. batteries are a key technology for the energy transition in europe. they are essential for sustainable mobility and for the storage of energy from renewable sources and are also an integral part of our daily lives. the total volume of industrial batteries, including those for e-bikes and electric vehicles, is estimated to increase from the current 0,7 million tonnes to almost 4,4 million tonnes in 2035. i am very pleased with this report, because it has re-regulated many important issues along the entire life cycle of batteries, and not just along the supply chain, but along the entire value chain. we're setting new standards for clean batteries. for the first time, batteries must meet minimum requirements for sustainable and socially responsible mining of raw materials. the consumer rights are also being massively strengthened. the new rules will also cover products of everyday use. this includes in particular products with built-in batteries such as mobile phones or tablets. these batteries will need to be interchangeable in the future to extend the life of products. i am therefore counting on your support so that this report is not watered down in the vote.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for more than 40 years, the environment action programmes have been the key to european environmental and climate policy. the proposal for the eighth environment action programme, which is now being negotiated, was put forward by the commission in 2020, a year in which we were in the midst of the pandemic. the vote now takes place at a time of great geopolitical crisis. we are at war in europe and the security of supply in some areas of our lives no longer seems to be 100 per cent guaranteed. this leads to sharp price increases in energy, other consumer goods and food. as at the beginning of the pandemic, there are voices again that we must sacrifice our ecological focus in the current situation. the argument is that this is the only way to ensure the viability and survival of our industry. but when the livelihoods of millions of people are destroyed, for example by rising sea levels and devastating droughts, social conflict and migration flows will result. climate change therefore also means security problems. reducing dependence on fossil fuels, promoting and greening industry and sustainable food production must be at the heart of our common policy. we are on the right track, ladies and gentlemen.
madam chairman! russia and ukraine are de facto two of the world's largest agricultural producers. there is a threat of a worldwide food shortage. what is the eu doing in this situation? it is a very important matter, and i hope that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done. it is committed to an agricultural strategy which would reduce agricultural production in europe by at least 13%. which begs the question, what kind of reality are you living in? do you have any idea the immense damage you're doing here? not just in europe worldwide. for the eu, this means massive price increases, social upheavals, enormous inflation. for north africa and the middle east, this means food shortages, hunger, instability, war. is that what you want? there's only one way out of this, and that's to move farm to fork to where this plan belongs, which is on the dung heap of the abandoned spinning mills. best you bury the whole green deal right along with it.
the commission has already done so. almost daily we hear reports about ukraine, the grain store of europe, and beyond. we know that ukraine and russia together account for over 30% of world trade in wheat, over 32% in barley, over 17% in maize and even over 50% in sunflowers. these quantities will not be available on the world market this year, nor next year. the whole framework has changed completely and it is high time for our motion for a resolution. europe has a responsibility. europe has an obligation. not only to its own citizens, but also beyond the borders of europe. three points: the eu's agricultural legislation, farm to fork and biodiversity strategy need to be reassessed in their entirety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we need real support for european farmers who, despite the exorbitant prices of feed, fertilisers and fuel, are working every day for our food security. we need fresh money - not from the crisis reserve, because then we will pay for this crisis ourselves. and thirdly, congratulations to the commission! some 4 million hectares of abandoned land were cleared for cultivation. this is a contribution to food security.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear commissioner mcguinness, dear colleagues, first, i would like to thank the slovenian presidency and commissioner breton for the good cooperation during the trilogue negotiations. special thanks to the shadow rapporteurs and the involved staff for your excellent work. i am convinced that we found a good agreement for european citizens and businesses. the new roaming regulation is not just a simple prolongation, but it represents a significant improvement for all end-users. consumers will benefit from the same quality of service across the entire union. this means that operators cannot deliberately slow down the data speed of the customers anymore. furthermore, the new regulation foresees increased transparency obligations in terms of value-added service numbers as well as emergency communication. from now on, consumers will be able to better differentiate between ordinary numbers and numbers where additional charges apply. this access to emergency communications when travelling will be easier and more transparent. the mobile telecommunication market as a whole, and especially the roaming market, are developing fast. with the development of future network technologies as well as the increased use of iot—devices and m2m services, we are looking towards an exciting future. in order to keep the regulation up to date, we need to gather as much data as possible, to take the right action to foster innovation and facilitate business development. therefore, the roaming regulation extended reporting obligations, which brings us in the position to keep the finger on the pulse of the market. it is very clear that the european parliament needs to stay in charge of the next review of the roaming regulation. in this regard, the european parliament fought to take out the delegated act and prevailed, as parliament we are pushing the commission to have a closer look into fair-use policies. it is a fact that a true ‘roam like at home’ experience is only possible when end-users can benefit from the full subscription abroad. the balance between the ability of operators to offer roaming services sustainably and the possibility for customers to use the tariffs as extensively as possible should be re—evaluated. we also tackled the topic of the intra—eu calls. it’s not understandable for our citizens when i have to pay surcharges when calling from my member state to another eu country but i don’t have to pay extra when i’m travelling across the union. the roaming regulation contains a provision that urges the commission to carry out an evaluation of the current situation. last but not least, the most important issue in this regulation, the wholesale caps. low wholesale caps empower small operators to offer a roaming service sustainably and are key for more competition in the telecommunication market, and i think that’s necessary. at the end, we found a balanced agreement which takes into account both aspects: the consumers and the investment needs of operators. starting with two euros in 2020, we gradually reduced the wholesale charges on data to one euro in 2027. i know there’s still a lot of work in the future and i’m looking forward to the discussion now.
rapporteur. – mr president, i want to close this debate in a special way. the terrible russian war against ukraine is having a devastating impact on the ukrainian population. over three million people have already made their way to the eu. these refugees try to stay in touch with their relatives and friends who have remained in ukraine. this is often resulting in immense roaming costs. many european operators have already announced that they will suspend roaming costs for their customers inside and outside of ukraine. i welcome those efforts but unfortunately this has no significant impact on ukrainian refugees as they are using ukrainian sim cards and are not customers of the european operators. i want to take this opportunity to call on european operators to go a step further and truly make a difference for ukrainian refugees by temporarily suspending the wholesale caps they are charging their ukrainian partners. this way the latter can offer their customers free roaming in the european union. in addition i am urging european operators to provide ukrainian refugees unbureaucratic access to european sim cards, possibly with special tariffs, so that they can stay in touch with their family back in ukraine.
the case is closed.
president of the council. madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that russia's totally unjustified and despicable military actions against ukraine are a matter of daily concern. among their many effects, these actions have caused energy difficulties, first for ukraine of course, but also for our european union and beyond. among these effects, a substantial increase in gas prices in the european union is already being felt, as well as a rise in international oil prices, in addition to the increases we have been experiencing, in particular as a result of the economic recovery, since autumn 2021. we must therefore also, in our reactions and responses, target our response to ensure the security of our energy supplies and reduce our dependence on russia as quickly as possible, in cooperation with our international partners. the diversification of our supplies is becoming an even more urgent issue, one on which we are working and on which i would like to thank the european commission for the recent proposals it has made over the last few months and again in recent days. we know this, we must take this reality into account: today the european union imports 45% of its gas consumption from russia, and russia also accounts for about 25% of our oil imports and 45% of our coal imports. following the russian invasion of ukraine, these issues were immediately discussed by the energy ministers, under the french presidency of the council, with the organisation of an extraordinary council convened on 28 february. the council made it clear that there was no immediate risk to europe's supply. this security of supply was guaranteed for the end of the winter, which was then approaching, and for the coming months, both in terms of gas and oil. this is a strong message of reassurance, which we must repeat. the council has also already coordinated a large number of necessary and concrete measures to support ukraine, including the synchronisation of its electricity system with ours. it was made a few days ago. i believe that we should also welcome this effort as part of our solidarity actions towards ukraine. for ukraine, as for moldova, this connection will ensure energy security in the short term. the council of energy ministers also took stock of the toolkit presented by the european commission last october. on this basis, member states have introduced in recent months a number of measures to cope with the rise in energy prices and to control tariffs in the face of these exceptional increases. however, the question of our dependence on russian gas remains the most complex and important. it is more relevant than ever. it obviously requires our increased attention and action. this was one of the subjects discussed at the versailles meeting of the heads of state or government of the 27 member states on 10 and 11 march. on the basis of the european commission's proposals, and the repowereu plan in particular, we must accelerate the reduction of our dependence by controlling and reducing consumption, by coordinating the diversification of our supplies and by taking measures to speed up the energy transition. a dependent continent is a weaker continent; we must take this into account both in the short term, with the measures described, but also and above all in the medium and long term, because, beyond this attack and this war, the question of dependence has shown how sovereign europe cannot be without a more ambitious energy policy, among others. the discussions in versailles were essential and practical in preparing the european council's discussion which will begin this afternoon. all these subjects will be dealt with concretely, on the basis of the proposals made less than 48 hours ago by the european commission: reducing dependence, diversifying supplies, the additional investments needed, controlling energy prices, joint purchasing, controlling the ceiling tools that will be discussed and the functioning of our markets. nothing should be taboo in such exceptional circumstances, even though, as you know, i say this on behalf of the presidency, discussions between member states on such a subject are still sometimes complicated. the states have already agreed on the objective of making europe independent of fossil fuels imported from russia. this is already a historic choice, which will ensure and strengthen our energy sovereignty and beyond. we will also have to accelerate our efforts to increase europe's independence from fossil fuels altogether, starting with gas, of course. diversification of sources and supply routes, and the transition to clean forms of energy are absolutely imperative. we must also take into account a dual dimension in this energy strategy: the social impact on households, the middle classes in particular, our economies and industries, it would be counterproductive to weaken europe at the very moment when we need to strengthen it, and the international dimension, beyond the current war. we cannot ask our economies to make efforts if we cannot get others to respect them - i am thinking in particular of the debate we are having on the european union's border adjustment mechanism, with an important step, as you know, taken at the council a few days ago. this is the debate we must pursue and accelerate. i would like to conclude by saying that we are thus returning to the origins of the european project, which has been built since the 1950s on the pooling of energy resources. the mechanisms we are discussing today - shared storage, joint purchasing, transition acceleration mechanisms and coordinated diversification - are the same mechanisms that gave birth to our european cooperation just over seven decades ago. i thank the european commission for its still recent proposals and i am at your disposal for the rest of this debate.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, mr minister, honourable members. well first of all thank you all for welcoming me here today this morning. commissioner simson apologises that she could not speak to you as she’s participating in a meeting of the international energy agency in paris. i know that last week she had a chance to present the commission’s ‘repowereu’ communication to the itre committee. this communication has implications for every single eu citizen, so the commission is grateful to have this opportunity to present it to you today. what we are seeing right now in ukraine is an attack on some of the most important values. we are standing with ukraine as it fights for its freedom. the war has had a ripple effect on europe’s energy policy and energy security, and it’s now moving into a new era. it is now clearer than ever that we need to move even faster to reshape our energy system and bring our dependence on russian energy to the end as soon as possible. we are not starting this work only now. since 2009, when russia stopped gas deliveries to ukraine, we have been working to diversify and secure our energy supplies. thanks to an adequate regulatory and financial toolbox, we have succeeded in building a dense, well-interconnected and resilient energy network, which has effectively prevented damaging disruptions of energy supply, including under current difficult geopolitical circumstances. for example, we have worked to bring eight new lng terminals in the eu. and in january of this year, we imported more lng than ever before. even so, we are not yet where we need to be, but we believe that this communication gives us the necessary plan to get there. the communication adopted on 8 march has three main pillars. first, repowereu, which is our plan to bring down our dependence on russian fossil fuels well before the end of the decade. second, on security of supply, immediate measures to improve our gas supply for next winter. and third, on affordability, a set of measures to mitigate the impact of high energy prices on households and companies. so i will go through all three pillars and i will begin with repowereu. as i said, the goal of this pillar is to phase out russian fossil fuels. this is done with a special focus on gas by diversifying our supplies, massively investing in renewables, green hydrogen and boosting energy efficiency. two weeks ago, eu leaders came together at the versailles summit and agreed to the key principle behind repowereu: we must be in charge of our own energy future. and that means that we cannot let any third country to destabilise our energy markets nor influence our energy choices. this year, we need to reduce reliance on russian fossil fuels imported through diversification of supplies and greater reliance on lng and energy savings. over the next 5 years, and starting already now, we need to speed up our switch to renewables, increase energy efficiency, and develop new clean technologies like hydrogen. renewables are a perfect solution for europe. they are home-grown, they create jobs and they support innovation. they are a strategic investment in both our economy and our security and independence. on security of supply, we need to double down our efforts and make sure that we are much better prepared for coming winters. there are two facts about which we are sure. first, we are not yet ready to give up gas entirely. and second, if we continue to use gas as a transition fuel, as much as possible, that gas should come from non-russian sources. lng gives us an opportunity here to further diversify. at the same time, we could face an interruption of supply in europe and we need to make sure that europe is ready to face that. right now we are emerging from winter into a relatively mild spring season, so any disruption would not cause any major issues given the current levels of storage in europe and of imports from alternative suppliers. what we need to do now is start getting ready for the next heating season, by which point it is crucial to ensure that our gas storages are full. we have delivered on this with gas-storage legislation that was adopted as [inaudible] proposal. our proposal requires that underground gas-storage facilities across the eu are filled at least 80% by 1 november this year, and 90% in the following years. to get there it also sets some intermediate targets from february to october each year. member states will monitor their filling levels on a monthly basis and report to the commission accordingly. having sufficient gas in storage facilities across the eu is a joint responsibility and will benefit everyone. member states without gas-storage facilities are required to ensure that gas is stored in other eu countries, corresponding to at least 15% of their annual gas consumption. as an alternative option, member states without storage facilities may instead jointly develop a burden-sharing mechanism with one or more member states with storage facilities. furthermore, given the strategic importance of gas storage, we are also proposing an obligation to certify all underground gas-storage operators to avoid potential energy security risks linked to the ownership of the storage facility. owners of non-certified storage system operators will have to give up their ownership. this legislation is yet another example of how the commission can deliver at lightning speed what is needed. i know i can count on you and on the council to ensure a fast-track procedure and get this proposal adopted as soon as possible. in the meantime, member states will need to start their refilling of storage capacities and the commission will coordinate this in the coming months. we have already set up a platform to do that. we are also ready to expand its tasks as necessary to create a fully fledged energy task force that could not only coordinate the refuelling process, but also prepare the ground for more structured energy cooperation with key gas suppliers. in parallel we are reassessing scenarios for partial and full disruption of gas flows from russia next winter to help member states revise their gas-supply contingency plans and better coordinate their efforts in a spirit of solidarity. what we can see clearly at this point is that there is a need for a more coordinated eu gas policy on buying, storing and responding to any supply disruption. this is also why we have stepped up our work with the member states in the gas coordination group to reinforce regional cooperation and encourage new solidarity agreements. beyond diversification, we’re also working full speed to reduce the need for fossil gas in the first place, because fossil fuel markets have been proven to be highly volatile. this includes boosting renewables and energy efficiency, and it means more biomethane and renewable hydrogen, more innovation, heat pumps and solar panels on rooftops. it means getting serious about saving energy, which is one way that everyone can contribute to solving the current crisis. this is only going to work if we remove the barriers that are currently standing in the way of boosting renewables. permitting is one of the biggest challenges we face. it is simply an issue of practicality. we cannot boost renewables to the scale we need if it takes years and years to authorise a single project. therefore, the commission will propose ways to simplify and shorten permitting and authorisation, promote the take-up of corporate purchase agreements and develop a european solar energy supply chain. third, the pillar of the communication is on affordability. given the extraordinary circumstances we are now facing, member states can temporary regulate electricity and gas prices for households and micro—enterprises. the communication comes with detailed guidance on how to design these schemes. the commission also just adopted a new temporary crisis framework for state aid, offering member states options to provide short-term relief to undertakings in the light of the russian invasion in ukraine, liquidity support in the form of public guarantees and loans, and finally, temporary support to alleviate exceptionally severe increases in the price of gas and electricity. new support measures need sufficient funding, of course. one option is to use ets revenues. from january 2021 to february 2022, emission trading generated eur 30 billion for national budgets. member states also have the possibility to take advantage of windfall profits in the energy sector and tax them. the commission is looking into all possible options for emergency measures to limit the impact of high gas prices spreading to energy costs for end-users. concretely, in line with the versailles declaration, the commission put forward options for exceptional and short-term measures, and these options will be discussed by the european council which takes place today and tomorrow. the commission will also assess options to optimise electricity market design to reap the benefits from low-cost energy. the final report of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, acer will inform our work on this, as well as other contributions on the functioning of the electricity market. so, honourable members, these are our proposals in a nutshell. we hope to move very fast on presenting all these proposals and on all legislative proposals under ‘fit for 55’, and we count on your support. this is part of the solution to make the eu resilient to shocks and less dependent on russian fossil fuels. we need to be united while facing these challenging times, and if there is one thing that this crisis is showing to us, it is that the eu is more united than ever in responding to putin and supporting the ukrainian people. i look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have missed both speakers: the dependence on russian uranium and fuel elements but that may be coming. we're closed. solidarity with a country in our neighbourhood, as never before. economic sanctions against russia, arms deliveries to ukraine, that's working. the invasion is halted. our people and businesses are also showing understanding for the higher energy prices. i do not understand the member states which have not yet reduced energy taxes. that's the first step. and of course, reducing our energy dependence on putin, that's what we're called upon to do. european purchasing communities strengthen market power. nuclear power and coal are a bridge through the crisis. the gas storage requirements contribute to security of supply. this now includes the expansion of infrastructure - first lng, then hydrogen, everything is running at full speed. in the medium term, two key points: one key is to expand renewables - here too, we are moving ahead with vigour: speeding up the approval process, not ideologising hydrogen and biomass production. secondly, technological openness: we will not have enough hydrogen available for the foreseeable future. that's why we need low-carbon solutions that make these transitions financially viable. final remark: yes, we also need to decouple the price of gas from the general electricity prices. but to abandon competition in the energy markets altogether now would be the worst preparation for the post-war period imaginable. it is easier to abandon the market economy than to re-admit competition.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, i thank the commission for coming today with a document that we have been asking for a long time. it is better to have something than nothing, and the fact that we have a proposal today to solve the problem of compulsory storage of natural gas is salutary and this will lead to both a fall in prices, which we so much want, and to security of gas supply. unfortunately, commissioner, unfortunately, minister, the mechanism for joint gas purchases is still not working and this will affect our desire to have cheaper gas and to allow a secure supply of gas at a decent price this winter. at the same time, i am totally dissatisfied, commissioner. the fact that the price of gas in the so-called ttf gas hubs is based not on cost, as would be normal, but is based almost exclusively on speculation and speculators is unacceptable. it is unacceptable to have in the european union countries like romania, where someone can sell energy at ten times the cost price. this has nothing to do with any market economy and nothing to do with what a functioning energy market would be. the fact that in countries, in member states like romania, a family ends up paying more for gas and electricity than the minimum wage per economy is a clear market failure. why are these exceptional revenues not taxed - because they are clearly the result of speculation - ? and i say to those who oppose this price cap, it's not the cap that distorts competition, it's this very action of speculators that distorts competition, and they have to be punished, and i ask you to take action to have a functioning energy market.
for the renew group. madam president, the war in ukraine was started by putin, but it is basically paid for by ourselves because we have become accustomed to using russian gas. not just last year, but for decades. in this way we in europe are almost like drug addicts who are going to be in rehab now. i'm old enough to remember the oil crisis back in 1973, where i remember playing football on the street in copenhagen with no cars, no traffic. we need the same spirit today. what's the deal? we need to save energy -- in industry and in our buildings -- doing everything from lowering the temperature in our living rooms to maybe putting on an extra sweater. and we should have major campaigns to make citizens aware of the great benefits of saving energy. we need to build on renewable energy. we'll do it at sea. we'll do it on land with wind and sun. because the new thing is that these energy sources are in europe's strategic interest. the point is, we can if we want to! we need to prepare for the possibility that putin may shut off the gas today or maybe tomorrow. on the part of the renew group, we look forward to working with the european commission to make ourselves independent of putin. and it can only go too slowly! the countries of the council of ministers must also be involved. and we must be ready here in the european parliament to deliver faster and higher targets for the green transition. it's an emergency!
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. my group also believes that the commission's proposals are moving in the right direction: reducing dependence on russia by diversifying sources of fossil fuel supply, reducing consumption, and accelerating the development of renewable sources. but that means that up until now, until february 24 of this year, we've been going in the wrong direction or not quite the right direction. i 've been here for seven years and i 've never heard us admit that we sometimes make bad decisions . why were we going the wrong way? because the dependence on russia was growing and nobody was particularly bothered by it, despite our, my political group and my country's objections. now it is proposing joint gas purchases, gas storage regulations, other solutions and at the same time a faster transition towards renewable sources. but the reality is different. the desperate search for fossil fuels is still going on, and the best and most symbolic example of this was the visit of the german minister of economy to qatar and the united arab emirates. so the gap between our ambitious goals and reality is growing, and i think we should consider that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, energy and fuel prices have reached unsustainable levels throughout europe, not only because of the war but also because of the shameful speculation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is the world's largest importer of energy and must take advantage of this weight to buy energy jointly and to set a ceiling on the price of fuel. in the long run, however, the only real answer is renewable energy, as my movement has been saying for over a decade. to those who say that the transition is too expensive, i say that if we had completed it already, our citizens would be paying half of what they are paying today.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the security of energy supplies and the reduction of our external vulnerability are more important than ever. the repower you initiative is positive, but short-term measures lack ambition and clarity. we need a roadmap with concrete steps, mapping existing capacities and responding to the need for new infrastructure, such as liquefied natural gas terminals and interconnections, and in particular the interconnection of the iberian peninsula. we also need a plan to finance these activities and to protect our citizens. the impact of price escalation on households and industry is enormous and will only tend to get worse if nothing is done. our governments must be more ambitious, reducing the tax burden. we must act decisively and we must act now!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. yes, it is right to make europe independent of fossil fuels - now, above all, of those from russia. that is the right demand. that is the political task of the hour. let us do everything we can to accelerate the transformation of energy supply now, really fast. now the mistakes made in the past are becoming apparent. and yes, some may have been too optimistic that economic interconnectedness would lead to peaceful cooperation. but the others - and i look to your government, mr beaune - have done too little to complete the internal energy market. the fact that the spanish-french pipeline gap has not yet been closed is a problem. mr president, your reference to storage capacity indicates that the european energy infrastructure is not perfect. my request is that you make it clear where the gaps in infrastructure are, and that they must be closed as a matter of priority. this is a great opportunity for us to help each other as eu countries.
i have to say, madam president, the russian aggression in ukraine shows us very clearly that dependence on fossil fuels is dependence on unpredictable dictatorships and dictators. it is this dependence that is causing the electricity and heating bills to skyrocket everywhere. but are we really doing enough to relieve people and prepare for the coming winter? to make sure that we can finally end this dependency? and i am a little surprised that mr krasnodębski here is almost showing a little satisfaction with the fact that the energy revolution is somehow responsible for this happening now and for our situation. that's not true. and i don't feel like we've really realized the situation we're in here in this house. we still pretend that it's acceptable to see gas as a transitional solution for the next few years, decades. what do we do with it if we seem to want to import more lng in the future? do we think it will be cheaper? this is completely insane. it is absurd, we will continue to keep our citizens trapped in a dependency which will cost them more and more. the only thing we can really do is to get the energy revolution going at the speed of light. we need a general mobilization for the exchange of heat, for the expansion of public transport, so that people really have an alternative that is also cheaper for them, that is affordable for them. this is the only way to get us out of dependence and to enable the european union to be truly honest about its values.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank the commission and the council for their statements on our common european approach to affordable, secure and sustainable energy. you'll find many partners in this house along the way. i would like to remind you once again that, for the time being, ambitious goals are good and right, but they must also be achievable. we have no time to limit ourselves to artificial criteria in the production of green hydrogen. we do not have time to restrict even more the use of good and sustainable biofuels produced in europe. we need to use all kinds of renewable energy - whether it's hydro, wind, bio or solar - because we need it. only with european energy competition and a wide range of offers will our renewable energy eventually be affordable and secure.
in writing. good help is quick help: this also applies to financial aid for refugees from ukraine and those organising care, accommodation and education in europe. it is therefore a sensible step to release them with today's vote, to open the funds quickly and to make the funds available immediately. we are, of course, calling for full transparency in the allocation of funds and for conscious information campaigns to be carried out so that all those who have access to the funds are informed. the support of refugees from ukraine is a european-wide task, and it requires european funds. the activation of the temporary protection directive was the first important step, now providing funds is the second important step. but the eu commission must ensure that the money is actually used to support refugees and that it reaches the communities, local organisations and ngos. that would be the necessary third step. the european union must support those who are making europe a europe of solidarity.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, just very briefly in reaction to what was said. first of all, i think the commission will feel stronger tomorrow, given the clear messages a vast majority of this parliament have given today to us. secondly, of course many of us would have liked the levels of taxation to be higher, but also many of us campaigned for many years to get the minimum corporate tax approved. and the argument against it was always the same: you can’t compete if we do it as europeans on our own. please wait for the oecd to take the measure. now we have a measure in the oecd and i think we’re under an obligation to make the best of it. and since more than 130 countries have subscribed to this, the risk of unfair competition for european companies is gone. it’s gone. and if countries do not apply the rules, after a couple of years we can intervene, we can let countries act against companies who don’t pay the minimum tax. now, my final comment is this. i’ve heard it said again today, ‘oh, it’s too much of a burden. we shouldn’t do it.’ what are you going to say to the grocer on the corner of the street, to the baker, to the butcher, who do pay normal taxes, that these big international corporations always find ways not to pay taxes. now they can’t escape anymore if we start with this. so i thank parliament for its support on this measure. i also believe we need to do what we can do now and we need to put as much pressure as we can on those member states which don’t want to agree yet. and then the second part will follow. i do not think we should wait for the whole package, two parts of it, to be adopted immediately. and i strongly believe that if we send a signal tomorrow, we will start creating a fairer tax base across the board. and the idea that if you run a local shop, you pay taxes, and then if the shop next door is part of an international corporation, it doesn’t pay taxes – that idea can be put to sleep forever in europe. and i think this is what our citizens expect of us.
in writing. the eu must end its recovery from the economic crisis caused by the pandemic and offset the economic impact of the war in our neighbourhood. these two tests are also important for what we do in tax policy. we can only have one aim: to ensure that everyone pays taxes on their real economic activity, including the international corporate giants, and on the other hand, to ensure that we do not undermine our competitiveness with harmful tax policies. the agreement on a global minimum tax of 15% reached in the oecd last year is a good step in this direction. in contrast, the left in the european parliament is once again acting against the basic economic interests of the union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's external relations. three years on, i don't understand why the left wants to undermine the union's competitiveness. they have only one recipe for economic crisis: debt and tax increases. it is unfortunate that i have to say, fortunately, that the ep, and therefore the relative left majority, has no say in the matter. it's not even funny to turn an agreement ratified by 136 countries into an ideological battle. the need to strengthen the unity and resilience of the union is what these proposals are about. the ep should not be the enemy of european competitiveness.
the rapporteur. madam president, at this unprecedented time for the european union and the world, our job is to ensure stability - stability for european families and stability for european businesses, because this is how we safeguard the interests of the most vulnerable in our society. stability was the very reason this instrument, the market stability reserve, was originally created - an instrument whose job is to keep us all focused on our environmental targets to continue to reduce emissions, and to make sure that the system is strong enough to withstand the shocks that come to the world from time to time. and what shocks we have had in recent years! a pandemic that has hit the world, where we have seen all our airports shut down, workers working from home, children attending school from computers in their own bedrooms and we here in parliament, who have stopped travelling and represented the european peoples in this parliament from our member states thanks to the technological advances that have enabled us to do so. while the environment has been relieved of the damage caused by human activity, we have not stopped working to protect our environment more permanently. we were the first continent to act during a pandemic and pass climate legislation, commit ourselves to be carbon neutral by 2050, and launch an ambitious package, fit for 55, that will see us go far beyond what we have committed ourselves to in the past. all this against the backdrop of renewed tensions between russia and the rest of the world and russia's atrocious invasion of ukraine in recent weeks. we understood that to maintain stability and to stay on track to meet our environmental and climate targets, we had to act immediately as a parliament, on the advice of the european commission, to extend the intake rate and allowances of the market stability reserve until 2030 - rates that are twice those originally planned but that reflect the realities we are living in today and our strong ambition for a greener europe. so in a few months we were able not only to work on the law extending what we have today but to get it through the environment committee in a hurry and we are here today to seal what we have already agreed on. however, this does not seem to be the case for the council of the european union. it seems that the council has not even started discussions on whether or not to agree to this extension, so let me make an appeal - an appeal to the council of ministers to move on this important extension for european families and businesses - an extension that ensures stability at a time when it is so much needed; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the eu's actions is taken into account in the decision-making process. because we want to have a green and environmental transition that is fair for everyone - a transition that leaves no one behind. before concluding, let me thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable contribution to our arrival and the cooperation i have received from each of them. you end with an appeal: we must protect this earth on which we live because no man can live without our world, but in fact the world continues to live without us humans.
executive vice—president of the commission. – madam president, let me start by thanking cyrus engerer and his colleagues for the report. this proposal is a small but very important element of the fit for 55 package, a set of comprehensive proposals to reach our climate goals. the market stability reserve (msr) for the eu emissions trading system (ets) has been operational since 2019. this reserve is a very important part of our ets. it has now shown that it fulfils its role of reducing historic surpluses of allowances. this improves the ets’s resilience against major demand shocks, such as the covid-19 crisis. i want to briefly back this up with a couple of figures. as a result of the operation of the msr in recent years, the surplus of allowances has decreased from 1.65 billion in 2018 to 1.38 billion allowances in 2019. the increase in the surplus of emission allowances that one could have seen in 2020 due to lower emissions because of covid-19 was limited also thanks to the msr. the msr operates based on clear and pre—determined rules. the most important of these rules are the ones on placing allowances in the reserve and releasing them from it. the proposal that we will debate today does one thing: keep the 24 % intake rate of emission allowances for the msr, also beyond 2024. and let me explain again why. in the last reform of the ets, it was decided to temporarily double the rate at which allowances are placed in the reserve to allow for a faster reduction of the historic surplus in the market from 12 to 24 %. however, that previously agreed higher intake rate would only apply until 2023, and would revert back to the legal default of 12 % thereafter. when considering the broader revision of the ets, as part of fit for 55, we of course also looked at the msr. our impact assessment shows that reverting to 12 % would not reduce the surplus fast enough. to maintain a well—functioning ets, the commission has therefore proposed to make this one targeted proposal in order to maintain the higher 24 % integrate for the msr and, accordingly, the higher minimum amount of allowances to be placed in the reserve 200 million. we put this change forward in a proposal that is separate from the broader revision of the ets to give predictability to the markets on the future operation of the reserve. we welcome the broad support in the environment committee for this, and i hope that this is confirmed this week here, in parliament. a well—functioning ets is key to deliver on our climate ambition by 2030. the proposals on the intake rate for the msr is a small part of that, and i count on your support also for the broader reform that we have on the table. i will listen carefully to what you will say.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not prepared to accept this. eu emissions trading is the european union's flagship tool for efficiently reducing greenhouse gas emissions by setting a clear reduction pathway that enables us to meet our reduction targets. that's why a strong, well-functioning emissions trading system is essential to achieving our green deal goals. in order to ensure that emissions trading remains such an efficient, reliable and shock-resistant instrument, the market stability reserve has been in place since 2019. the itre committee has accepted my proposal to extend the msr until the end of the trading period by a large majority. this is how we prevent the msr from leaking in 2023. any changes to the functioning of the msr will be discussed, if necessary, in the context of the review of emissions trading. we may now hear some points on this. i would like to thank the colleagues who have supported me in working on the msr and ensuring that european emissions trading continues to be such a powerful tool in the fight against climate change.
the commission has already done so. energy costs are rising many times over in a very short time. and other vital items, such as food and housing, are also experiencing substantial price increases. europe is facing massive inflation. the threat of economic recession is looming, and entire industries are now facing bankruptcy. now you might think that the eu would do everything it could to counter this development, to lower energy prices, to help businesses in distress, to support europe's economy in this difficult situation. for example, the market stability reserve could be reduced to 12%, as originally planned. the reserve could also be used to deal with the acute crisis. but the opposite is true. driven by your 'green deal' fetish, you, the commission, are making the situation even worse. you stubbornly insist on a model that costs businesses and citizens billions. ladies and gentlemen of the commission, mr timmermans, you are doing europe a disservice. (the president cut the speaker off)
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and to begin with the positive. the reform of the transeuropean energy infrastructure does, of course, involve some fundamental improvements. there's more focus on renewables and offshore, there's a climate check, and in terms of control, the gas grid operators finally have less power. but there was so much more to this ten-e reform. the fact that there is an exception to finance the eastmed and melita pipelines is simply scandalous not only because the latter project is also implicated in the murder of daphne caruana galizia. what is being cynically sold to us as diversification is driving us deeper into dependence on natural gas. it's so outrageous that we're always doing the minimum, instead of thinking ahead, that the rule is, we're always doing the minimum, instead of doing the possible. the reform is okay anyway, because what was there before can be described as a medium-term catastrophe at best. but "oh okay" is not what we need to break free from the shackles of dictatorial gas. we're going to have to finally do our best because everything else just isn't good enough anymore.
in writing. the situation in afghanistan is precarious and unprecedented, there is no humanitarian catastrophe in afghanistan, there is a humanitarian catastrophe. afghanistan needs our attention, and it needs it now! it hurts to see people, especially women and girls, suffering in afghanistan. the 20-year struggle for more women's rights and equality was not to be considered in any case: all in vain and erased again. women are excluded from social life, subjected to enormous oppression and violence. not only are the taliban breaking their promise to strengthen women's rights, but in stark contrast, women are forbidden to even go to the doctor without a male escort, let alone board an airplane, for example. for girls over 12 years old, the school doors are locked. the denial of education to these girls is destroying the future of an entire generation and is a scandal in the 21st century! it is essential that any eu intervention focuses on women's lives when planning and managing aid programmes. it must be provided quickly and efficiently, and in no way financially support the taliban regime. afghan refugees must be given a protective status in the eu. the people of afghanistan have no present and no future. we must act now!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the issue today is too serious to be simply exchanging cheap political change here, because it is a serious problem as it looks for our democracy. putin fears nothing more than democracy, democracy in russia, democracy in the ukraine. and he is also fighting democracy in europe, in the european union. and what we see is that he has allies here in the national parliaments, in the member states, but also here in the european parliament. people who go to moscow and take selfies in red square. a foreign minister of the austrian fpö - fortunately a former foreign minister - who knelt before vladimir putin and then received earrings worth eur 50 000 from him, which she put in neatly. but the other parties, the afd, le pen and what they all call the northern league, they go to moscow, they take money, they take loans, they take know-how, they take tips. and they do all this because they are also destroying democracy from within europe by doing so. there are even some that have signed a friendship treaty, like the fpö in austria. and they forgot to cancel the friendship contract, even though they said they would. and it goes on for a few more years. this is the reality of some parties here in the house and in the european parliaments, who talk about cleanliness and national pride and in reality are just vladimir putin's boot-lickers.
i have to say, madam president, this debate today is hypocritical and a low point for the european parliament. it is a brutal war that is being used, quite shamelessly, as a pretext to discredit the only real opposition in this parliament. at the same time, there is an attempt to hide the close relations with russia. but every time you point a finger at someone else, three fingers point back at you. and so it is here. let's take a closer look at the russian payroll. we have gerhard schröder, social democrat, former chancellor of germany, françois fillon, christian democrat of the european people's party, former prime minister of france, matteo renzi, social democrat, former prime minister of italy, esko aho, liberal renew group, former prime minister of finland, wolfgang schüssel, people's party, former chancellor of austria, christian kern, social democrat, former chancellor of austria, alex salmond, scottish national party, former green party member of parliament, former first minister of scotland. all these former heads of government have one thing in common: they come from the four major political parties, and they are or were all on the payroll of a major russian corporation. they have all been and are being paid hundreds of thousands, even millions of euros for their commitment to putin. - what about you? you dare to point at others? this is hypocrisy in the purest of terms!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, the most important thing is to take action against authoritarian developments before it's too late. we therefore call for the application of the rule of law mechanism since it exists - not just because of the election result in hungary, but because of the systematic erosion of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights over the last 12 years. i would ask you to apply the mechanism without delay and in all seriousness. we are continuing to call for serious steps to be taken in the context of the article 7 procedure which has been in progress for four years - not just because of the election result in hungary, but because of the systematic erosion of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights for the past 12 years. the article 7 procedure is a council procedure. please take your responsibility towards europe seriously! we demand that fines be imposed consistently for every single unenforced judgment in infringement proceedings, not just because of the election result in hungary, but because of the systematic undermining of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights for over 12 years. it is therefore high time to act, madam president of the commission, and, yes, i am very consciously addressing my words to you as the guardian of the treaties. finally, show that the union is well able not only to preach but also to defend our common principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. one man's freedom ends where another man's freedom begins. and to protect the health of the entire population, mandatory vaccination may also be constitutionally legitimate. this is exactly the case we have in the midst of a pandemic. it was not invented in austria, it is worldwide. we still haven't defeated them. i think that also provides the basis for a compulsory vaccination. in austria, it is handled very, very carefully and will be used when it is absolutely necessary.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. while we have appreciated in recent weeks that the european union is taking in millions of refugees from ukraine in a long-unseen solidarity, people at other borders are still, in some cases, violently prevented from exercising their right to apply for asylum. the sad fact is that violations of rights at european borders are not the exception, but the norm. and frontex is also responsible, whose chief leggeri keeps practicing new excuses, even though the reports of pushbacks keep increasing. state authorities must not be involved in human rights violations under any circumstances. and article 46 of the frontex regulation consequently provides that joint operations are to be suspended if there are violations of fundamental rights. the principle of non-refoulement is fundamental to our asylum policy. so let us stop these pushbacks and let us get the people out of the squalor camps on our external borders!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. today we are discussing our position on the new schengen evaluation mechanism, which has already been presented by the rapporteur. the european parliament has been given a consultative role and there will be no formal trilogue negotiations, but we expect the council and the commission to take our demands into account. it is high time to replace the 2013 mechanism with a stronger and more independent mechanism, because agreements need control. this is the only way to ensure that they are enforced, and therefore a stronger monitoring mechanism will also strengthen schengen as a whole. the controls must be improved and made more regular. and in order to achieve this, five points are particularly important to me, which we have therefore anchored even more strongly in the report than in the commission's draft: respect for fundamental rights as the subject of the regulation, an explicit article on cooperation with the fundamental rights agency, the obligation for the commission to carry out unannounced visits when border controls at the internal borders of a member state last for more than six months, physical evaluation meetings as a norm, i.e. the remote method only in exceptional cases, and the participation of union observers, including a representative from the european parliament, in evaluation visits. i recommend that we do not support the amendments because they are a really good compromise. i very much hope that the regulation can be completed before the summer, and i also thank the rapporteur for the initiative that we have taken in this house to establish a clear position. the good report shows how important and how meaningful this was.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have listened carefully to what has been said over the last hour and a half, and i can see that we all want more sustainability in the internal market and more products that are easier to repair. that's good! this is the path - the common path - that innovative businesses and responsible consumers must take together. the necessary framework must come from the political side, it must come from us. i am particularly concerned about the practical implementation and feasibility of this framework. in any case, we need more repair culture in europe. there are already many good examples, many so-called best practice examples - i may mention the craftsman bonus from austria. that is precisely the direction we must continue to think about. i am a little wary, however, of repairing at any cost where the cost, duration, complexity or material cost are disproportionately high. i think it's up to us to find a good balance here in the coming weeks and months. we are at the beginning now and i look forward to seeing what steps the commission will take before the summer. we in the european parliament will keep a close eye on this. but we will also be bringing consumer attention to it for more repair culture in europe.
commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that today's debate makes it very clear that we must take this next step to strengthen consumer rights, and perhaps it is never more appropriate than now, in this crisis, in which citizens have become impoverished and who are, of course, - as has been said here, over 79% - eager to be able to repair a good. but for that we must hurry with the legislation and from the very beginning please, commissioner, go ahead, do not leave it until the end of the year: the study has been done, the public consultation has been done... and perhaps you can come forward with the legislative proposal sooner. because, after all, we have to be very clear: it is not only the consumer who benefits from the introduction of the right to redress. everybody wins: from the environment, from the amount of waste, from the energy consumption... and it's not the entrepreneurs who lose, as some would like to say, because, look, they can innovate by increasing the durability of products and they can make a repair center, even that manufacturer. but we have to be careful that this repair price doesn't demotivate the consumer, that they can't buy because it's too expensive. so we have to be careful in the legislation, to make this balance between the repair price and the replacement price.
i have to say, madam president, who doesn't know that? a handyakku somehow magically weakens. repairing and replacing the battery would be disproportionately expensive, since you could buy a newer model, and the old one would end up in the trash somehow. i think we can all agree that this is not sustainable. and we are working now here in the european union to put an end to that. out of the throwaway culture, into the repair. the solutions that are on the table now and are being discussed include, for example, making equipment more durable and easier to repair. but it also requires interchangeable parts and easier access to these spare parts. we also want a longer warranty, and we need guaranteed software updates to make sure that the products last longer. and it needs clear information about whether and how devices can actually be repaired, so that you can also consider that when you buy whether it's a smart thing to do or not. such measures must, of course, be practical. that is to say, we do not want a planned economy, but we need specifically coordinated rules for the respective sectors.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament could, in these times of crisis, when everything is getting more expensive, send a signal of thrift and simply save the seats that have been freed up by brexit. you could, you just don't. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has been given a new mandate to vote on the european elections, and the european parliament has been given a new mandate to vote on the european elections. and then there is the attempt to impose quotas on the parties to determine their lists of candidates. this is absolutely undemocratic. the commission is also proposing to abolish the principle of unanimity in the council as soon as the eu's voting rights are established. this is the favourite subject of the eurocrats and the centralists. this whole project is a smear, a civil mockery of the upper class.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as an agricultural mep from the organic frontrunner austria, it is a particular pleasure and honour to be leading the way in positioning the european parliament for the eu's important organic action plan. because high-quality food produced locally and in harmony with nature is important for the quality of life of people in europe, but also for climate protection. that is what our organic farming is all about. and we must definitely give more space to this model of sustainable management in europe. in the organic action plan, we ensure that there is a very good mix of the right instruments and incentives, but also enough flexibility so that each eu country can have tailor-made opportunities to develop its own organic sector individually and can feed the european organic vision into their own national or regional organic strategies. because our regions start from completely different starting points. in some countries we already have over 25% of the agricultural area under organic farming, in others we are at 0.5%. from farmers to the processing and refining industry, the private sector with retail, the catering industry, the public sector with public procurement, to the consumers: we have to pick up the people. we must create the conditions for sustainable growth and not just talk about targets. this is why we have set priorities in the eu's bio action plan. the promotion of organic consumption plays an important role. the growth of the organic sector can only be sustained by a market-oriented approach and a holistic development of the supply chain. it takes growth of supply and demand in balance, so that prices are also right. we also point to the immense potential of short regional and seasonal supply chains. they bring environmental and economic benefits to our organic farmers and rural regions by ensuring income and creating jobs, while making a significant contribution to animal welfare and the protection of the environment, climate and biodiversity. we also insist on involving the local and regional level, because it is the representatives of the regions and the municipalities who know best where the need is and where the most targeted steps can be taken to develop the bio-sector - whether in schools, kindergartens, crèches, cooperation between farmers and consumers, green procurement in canteens or in other areas. it is also essential that the eu's bio action plan is accompanied by a strong research, innovation and digital policy. production limiting factors must be overcome the availability of protein feed, vitamins, fertilisers and plant protection products. resource use must also become more efficient to meet societal expectations and the future. smart farming and organic farming have to go hand in hand. the covid-19 pandemic and the russian invasion of ukraine have made it clearer once again that the eu needs to strengthen its food security and reduce its dependence on imports from outside the eu. a strong, sustainable and above all diverse eu agricultural sector is a vital component of our food security. organic farming can and will make an important contribution to the future food security of the eu. i would also like to thank my colleagues from the various political groups who have contributed very constructively to the negotiations. in drafting the report on the eu biodiversity action plan, we have largely put aside ideological differences in favour of common sense, because at the heart of it all we agree that we want to develop and strengthen the biosector in europe. this vision has been endorsed by the committee. in conclusion, i would like to stress once again that sustainable agriculture cannot and must not be only organic. i'm a conventional farmer myself, and i know very well that with other sustainable farming methods, we can produce high-quality food with very high animal welfare standards. in developing a sustainable eu food system, there is no single agricultural model that is suitable for all countries and regions. in the future, we will need both organic and conventional farming to feed our people.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would like to thank you all for the really lively discussion on this important report on our eu bio action plan. i repeat once more: we are in agreement on the need to develop and strengthen the bio-sector in europe. this goal unites us. the percentage target: we don't want to lose anyone by 2030. on the contrary, we want to involve many people, many member states, many farmers. the commission is setting a very ambitious target: a tripling in less than eight years, one might say in seven and a half years. and i want to give you another example of this. in austria, we have increased organic to 26% of the organic area in a decades-long process. it didn't happen overnight. so please trust me. but we have done it in a sustainable way and very successfully. in our report we make it very clear that the development of organic farming will be one of the key elements in achieving the overall green deal objectives. organic farming plays a significant role in providing sustainable solutions to many of today's challenges. but please: if we want to be successful, let us do it sustainably, let us give ourselves the time we need, the time our member states need, the time our farmers need - for us and for our environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you all very much, the text is really good. the covid pandemic is bad, but it's especially deadly for children and adolescents. and it's true that many people didn't have access to education before covid. the long closure of schools, however, further hampered the right to education enormously. 1.8 billion schoolchildren had limited access. this means huge educational deficits, but also lack of care and meals, little social contact with peers, increased risk of violence, including domestic violence, abuse and exploitation. digital learning and teaching methods have been helpful, but one-third of children worldwide do not have access to the internet. the important thing is that all the children really go back to school, otherwise many of them will be left behind. schools provide not only education but also the indispensable contact and psychosocial support. the european union must therefore provide comprehensive programmes, measures and support to meet the needs of all children.
in writing. it's actually five minutes past twelve! what about the commission and the council's strong commitment to fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law within the eu? what are they doing to stop the erosion of democracy in poland and hungary, including with eu funds?! article 2 teu defines these values as the basis of our union. they should therefore be taken for granted in all the countries of our community, but they have been trampled on for years in hungary and poland in particular. it is high time that the commission and the council show that they are credible and firm in their commitment to the rule of law and that they are not just lagging behind or not acting at all. we need continuous consultations, transparency and concrete proposals and recommendations with deadlines, and we need them now. the situation has continued to deteriorate in both countries since the procedure was initiated, and we must reverse this trend! the commission talks a lot and does little. if the article 7 procedure does not progress, it is up to the commission to react accordingly and to use other instruments. we must finally do everything we can to protect our values, and there can be no compromise on the values of article 2 of the treaty.
madam president, just in a couple of days on the 9th may, we will remember the visionaries who embarked on a project of peace, stability, growth, prosperity. we will also attempt on that day to be looking ahead towards our bright european future together. today, our continent is struck by war. but we have seen that our freedom no longer lives in fear. and this is because of our unity and of our solidarity. i hope that one day, very soon, we can offer the same european future to our ukrainian friends. what this conference did is to reaffirm those exact values and to root them into fresh ideas. i was one of many colleagues working within the digital transformation working group, and we have put concrete proposals that aim to make europe’s tech sector more vibrant, more innovative, safer and full of opportunities for the next generations to come. i think citizens want a union that understand the needs of its towns, of its villages, of its cities, of its capitals, and that knows how to defend their rights and values on a global stage. a europe that has the confidence to see itself as one, with pan-european candidates that are able to reflect those values. this is how i believe we are going to be building a european union, by the citizens and for the citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have attended all the meetings of the conference on the future of europe and this, like you, has enabled me to listen, as never before, to citizens who were transforming themselves, becoming committed to thinking about common policy. a path has been opened which will not be closed thanks to new technologies. and this new form of citizen participation is here to stay and is very interesting for all of us. we have been able to draw some conclusions: that only together can europeans meet the challenges and that citizens are asking us to be agile, to be effective. and we can do it because the crisis has shown that we can do things quickly and do them together, and we have no other choice for the future to come. there is one point that has been raised here: the denial of the existence of a european identity. of course there is a european identity! there is a european democratic identity, and this house gives it. among other things, it is given by the treaties. like all the identities that each of us is made up of, it is modified over time and is improved. that is why we need the convention: to change and improve our democratic european citizenship, our democratic european identity, our future as europeans, our future in general.
blue-card speech. – madam president, i thank mr boeselager for his explanation on how to dare more democracy. now we have conducted a poll in the netherlands, an independent poll amongst 2 400 people. and we conducted the poll on the recommendations of the conference on the future of europe. only 23% were in favour of transnational lists. 63% of the dutch people were against european taxes, and 55% are not in favour of a european asylum policy. just to give some examples. now, to give you a sense of that, it was representative. there was some slight majority in favour of more european climate policy. so you can have that. are you willing to conduct the same poll in your home country?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to revolutionize this europe which is today a bureaucratic monster and a political dwarf in order to build a new europe which is more modern, more secure, more democratic and capable of solving the problems of its citizens: this was the great challenge for which the conference on the future of europe was born, a challenge which should have been met with courage and foresight, but which has been sorely missed. the conference was yet another wasted opportunity, the usual eu propaganda exercise involving very few citizens. just to quote a fact: only 52 000 citizens out of 450 million europeans have signed up to the conference's digital platform. the figures show the enormous distance between the citizens and the buildings in brussels, which have once again stood up to defend a model of europe that is not working. the most striking example of the failure and the errors of the conference are the famous transnational lists which the citizens did not ask for and which the usual politicians imposed as a dogma. transnational lists which are not even mentioned in the motion adopted by the italian parliament and against which italian and european citizens have spoken publicly and in the working group on european democracy. the citizens do not need the transnational lists which only serve to guarantee the seat to some politician. the world is on fire. we are experiencing a devastating economic crisis. millions of families and businesses are struggling to pay their bills. get your feet back on the ground, get your head back in the game. listen again to the people who are calling for a change in this europe from top to bottom. the citizens are crying out for change, because they do not need another europe, but a different, new, courageous europe, which knows how to build a future of work, development, prosperity, freedom and democracy for our peoples. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the answer is "blue card". it was two italian citizens who asked me for the blue card i knew and who had the party card in their pocket. so, since that wasn't the place, i'll confront them at another time. i have heard from another italian citizen who spoke in the european democracy group, who said quite clearly that we had discussed transnational lists, an uncomfortable point on which we disagree. this town is chiara alicandro, and yet you haven't listened to her.
madam president, the conference on the future of europe is an important opportunity to work together to find creative solutions to make europe deliver for our citizens. with the social, economic and geopolitical consequences of the pandemic, of russia’s aggression against ukraine, and of the growing assertiveness of the chinese communist party, we must ensure that europe is capable of facing the many challenges ahead. that’s why i find it essential that we return to the heart of the principle of subsidiarity, one of the founding principles of the european union. we need to use the conclusions of the conference not only to focus on where the eu institutions should do more. instead, we must discuss which levels, including local, regional and state level, can best contribute to addressing specific challenges and bring solutions. this also means that the eu must not interfere into the exclusive competencies of the eu member states. we must respect the division of competences between the different levels of governance, and make decisions as close to our citizens as possible, and thus ensure the unity, resilience and future of our union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that this conference on the future of europe has produced really good results, beyond what we had expected, and also the discussion with the citizens. the hundreds of proposals now on the table show one thing: people, citizens, expect europe to provide solutions to the problems of the time. and you cannot just wipe that out and allow a working group to meet again where the results were sent. it is now a matter of taking these results - this momentum - with us, so as to enable europe to act and to make possible what the citizens of europe expect: the abolition of the blockers, the adoption of majority decisions, the abolition of the principle of unanimity, which in reality only strengthens the anti-europeans within the european union, the strengthening of the european parliament as a major force for democracy with the right of initiative and all that. it is a pity and a sign that it was not possible to produce a joint final report of this conference. but it is good that the european parliament is adopting a final report, a resolution, not as the end of the conference on the future of europe, but as the starting point for a real reform of the european union, which will finally be brought to fruition with modern treaties.
madam president, madam vice-president, colleagues, we have strongly defended this conference proposed by emmanuel macron in march 2019 from the outset. and for good reason! for one year we have been doing europe differently, with a totally new democratic exercise. citizens are demanding radical change because the world has changed, war has returned to our continent, empires threaten our lives and our values. and i would like to say to our colleagues on the far right that they should show a little more respect. mickey mouse, the circus! you make me feel like a child who, when playing football... (some reactions and applause) absolutely, you're from the far right, you're from the league, so you're from the far right. you make me feel like those kids who play soccer, but when they lose, they stop the game, pick up the ball and walk off the field. that's exactly your attitude! the citizens have done a serious job, a respectful job, we must respect them, and now parliament is waiting for the turn. we wanted this citizen debate. we must honour our commitments and follow up on the conference. we did that this morning with the transnational lists, and again you are in bad faith, and again you are lying, because they were clearly requested by the citizens, and we must do it now by activating the revision of the treaties without any hesitation, without any taboos, in full transparency. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by mr glinne)
blue-card reply. – yes, i will answer in italian, so i hope she will understand better. sono convinto che ci sia un'identità europea. sono convinto che come cittadini europei noi possiamo esercitare i nostri diritti in qualsiasi posto dell'unione europea. è per questo che da italiano ho deciso di candidarmi in francia e l'ho fatto esattamente per portare avanti questa idea di politica transnazionale, di democrazia transnazionale, che noi porteremo avanti insieme. sono sicuro, caro damian, attraverso le liste transnazionali, perché questa è l'europa, questa è la democrazia che vogliamo.
madam president, it has been a very long process from the first announcement of the conference to where we are today, with a concrete set of proposals together with the citizens and institutions for more europe, but also for another europe. and as a member of the working group, a stronger economy, social justice and jobs, i really think we can be proud of what we have achieved together and also of the strong role of the european parliament in this process. i am personally very impressed at how strong the wish of the european citizens is for a true social union with a common europe-wide minimum standards and a social feel to leave no one behind. framework for minimum income and wages, guaranteeing gender equality and equal access for all to public services, minimum pensions, social housing, fight against youth unemployment, a ban of unpaid internships – and last but not least, of course, a strong focus on the green and sustainable economy and green jobs. we now simply have to deliver on that, colleagues, we have to deliver on that. and the citizens have to and can count on us. we have to ensure these proposals we formulated together with the citizens must not disappear after the first round of applause on 9 may, and that they are taken seriously. and this is why we, as greens, strongly support a convention as soon as possible, including treaty changes, to move forward to a social union, to a sustainable union, and to a gender equal union.
madam president, thank you very much, dear colleagues, despite the initial scepticism of some eurosceptical governments, the conference on the future of europe turned out to be a success, empowering participative democracy at its outmost and putting long-sighted proposals on the table. now it is time to move forward, to achieve citizens’ goals and hopes, turning them into concrete actions. and there is only one way to do so. we must open a new convention for discussing the much-needed deep revision of the treaties towards a federal europe. and as this would be a clear divide in the history of the european integration, there would be no better place than ventotene island, where everything began, to do so. we are in front of a crossroads. we can move towards a genuine political union, a strategically autonomous union, moving to qualified majority, and thus growing into a real player at the global stage. or we can remain divided, becoming the chessboard where other actors play their geopolitical games as is happening with the criminal aggression of ukraine. only a new treaty of ventotene can allow us to pursue the first option. and if the main road is the convention, we must also be prepared to cope with certain national reluctances or blockages, thus foreseeing back-up solutions, including the possibility to set up new forms of reinforced cooperations. let’s finally sit around the negotiation table. there will be an understanding of who wants to be on the right side of history and who does not. we stand for a treaty of ventotene, for a free, democratic, sovereign and federal europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – thank you, my answer is very clear in that regard. i stand for the strengthening of the european integration moving towards a federal europe because i truly believe that, otherwise, facts will decide instead of us. as is happening right now with the criminal invasion of ukraine, as happened many times also with the multiple crisis we were experiencing in the last decades. and i must, of course, underline the fact that we did not always have all the tools we needed to face and tackle these crisis. sometimes we have been a bit original and creative, we found an ambitious solution, like next generation eu, but i am calling for a permanent structural common european debt and a real federal budget to tackle the global challenges in front of us. so, for me, this is the main road that i am going to stand for and defend as well as you. but i also hope that it will be the outcome of the conference and the convention, because the citizens were very clear in that regard and their voice must be listened to. otherwise, we will just fuel and foster frustration instead of more commitment towards european integration.
madam president, jean monet said "we do not unite states, we unite people". the conference on the future of europe demonstrated that the european union is made up of people who share the same values. the debate has been given a clear perspective as a result of the experiences of the last decades. unfortunately, the perception of european leadership among citizens has not always been the best, and this was not because of european policies, but because we failed to communicate with them, brexit being the best example of this. the debate on the reforms needed was substantial. beyond these debates, however, we have strong concerns about what it means to have access to an effective health system that increases the life expectancy of european citizens, or to education, which can be defined as immediate priorities for them: tackling climate change by using resources efficiently and taking into account the specificities of each country or access to affordable and quality food are also strong concerns of citizens. the realities around us have changed, however, from the beginning of the debates to today. we are all witnessing russian aggression, and europe is experiencing the greatest challenge to security and peace since the end of the second world war. at the same time, our citizens need security guarantees that can only be provided by a strong europe. this conference has shown that tomorrow's europe has a future. across europe, citizens have spoken out about how the european union can be a better place for everyone. our major objective is to consolidate a europe of values in which no one is left behind. this is in our hands, in everyone's hands, and the conference on the future of europe has shown us the way forward. beyond any dispute, dear colleagues, do not forget to love europe every day.
madam president, in the beginning the conference on the future of europe was very abstract and very slow, and it only gained momentum because of the fantastic dynamic in the nine working groups, where finally all components came together to debate. citizens from the european and national panels, colleagues from the national parliaments, meps, representatives of civil society, social partners, regional authorities, council and commission members, all were able to join forces to reach compromise, to make europe stronger, more resilient, more sustainable, and more social. yes, and these citizens represented all the citizens because there was a recent eurobarometer poll where nine out of ten europeans said they want a more social europe, so they were representative of these citizens. the dynamic of the working groups also translated later into the plenary and last saturday we concluded this unique democratic process with this fantastic 56-page document containing 325 concrete proposals endorsed by all components. now action is needed. of course, we must deliver on the citizens’ requests, and this requires, of course, policy change, legislative acts and in a few cases also treaty change. and therefore we need to convene the convention as this excellent joint resolution with debate suggests. to conclude, i think we proved during one year that representative democracy and participatory democracy can go hand-in-hand, and we must continue this exercise.
madam president, madam vice-president of the european commission, dear colleagues, i echo those colleagues, saying that the conference was an enriching exercise of democracy. i couldn’t agree more with that. but a bigger question is what is next? what kind of change? because we all mentioned the need for change. first of all, we would like to start with implementing the citizens’ proposals. certainly, we have to implement what the citizens have proposed us. there must be no excuses, otherwise we are simply leaving it to those on the extreme right and left to do it for us, and we don’t want that. secondly, i think the conference was clear: we need a change. we need a change on health union, on energy union. we have to abolish the unanimity rule. and for that, we need a new convention. thirdly, the conference was a model and should be a model – perhaps not at the same scale, but a continuous exercise involving citizens, bringing them together with the european institutions. what happens at european level has tremendous impact on people’s lives. so for that reason, we need pan-european solutions for pan-european challenges.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. yes, i assure you that i will defend italy's interests even with transnational lists. i wonder, however, whether your colleague, my colleague gozi, who was under-secretary in the renzi government, under-secretary in the gentiloni government and therefore had access to very specific papers and who then moved to macron's court, being an adviser and now a parliamentarian, can say the same thing, that he defends the interests of the italians or the french? i wish i could understand that. i'm asking your opinion.
i have to say, madam president, the conference is now coming to an end, and this should be the start of real reform in the european union. i hope i speak for everyone when i say thank you: all the citizens who have taken the time to participate and have had a really passionate debate and - as i have noticed - have moved and triggered a lot of colleagues, after they have really felt - as i have long suspected - that the citizens of the union are often much further ahead than some politicians would have us believe. i think that you have heard and felt this a little bit now, that many of the extreme right in this house, who always say: "we are the people", are now a little shocked when the people come and suddenly say something different from what they really meant. it must be really frustrating, disappointing. okay, but it is what it is. the citizens want a europe that works, that works for them. and for that europe must be strong. and for that, the european union must be strong. and for that, we're gonna need new contracts.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have heard enough about russia's cyberattacks, and europe is not sufficiently prepared. but i would like to ask another question, an additional one, namely: are we, as a european democracy, as a free world, able to convey the truth to the russian civilian population? we know about the information war, the war and the attack on democracy, on ukraine in europe, but also on the freedom of the press in russia, which has become the first victim of putin's dictatorship. we know about the thousands of protesters who demonstrated in russia against the war and were imprisoned by putin's police. and what we also need are channels, digital and information channels, that will bring the unvarnished situation - the truth, if you will - into the living rooms of the russian people. because that is also necessary so that the civilian population in russia can wake up.
i have to say, madam president, yes, it is gratifying to see that the european institutions and agencies are using the money of european taxpayers in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. nevertheless, it is expected that the discharge for a few organizations will be postponed. but the internal management problem at frontex in particular must not prevent the agency from guaranteeing the protection of our external borders and border management. i welcome, commissioner, the notification based on the conditionality mechanism to protect the eu budget. if you want to benefit from the eu, you must also abide by our principles. the rule of law must be the dna of the european union. a key point for me is also digitisation. we need comparable data and uniform reporting by the member states so that the use of eu funds can be monitored at any time. the first priority for the future must be to ensure effective control of the reconstruction fund. mr president, i would like to thank you very much for your excellent work and i wish you well.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. pegasus has arrived in the heart of the european union. in recent weeks and months, there have been more and more revelations about the use of spyware by the israeli private company nso group in several member states. the establishment of a committee of inquiry is rather rare in the european parliament, and this underlines the enormous importance of combating illegal eavesdropping on citizens. it is about defending the fundamental rights of the european union, its values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. we must restore confidence in the safety of our citizens. the pegasus commission of inquiry is tasked with investigating the purchase and use of spyware by national governments. the allegations are heavy: phones and devices of politicians, judges, prosecutors, journalists, opposition figures, human rights activists and diplomats are said to have been hacked, yes, have already been hacked. huge amounts of data have been stolen, reaching far into the private realms of the targeted individuals. the identity of the persons who have unlawful access to this data is, in most cases, unknown to us. the dangers of directly influencing democratic processes are evident. there was a recent parliamentary election in hungary, and there are allegations that this spyware was used in the election. it is therefore necessary to clarify the extent to which the use of pegasus has affected the election results in our member states. the attack on media freedom by the targeted interception of critical journalists also needs to be investigated, precisely because the studies on yesterday's press freedom day revealed shocking deteriorations in member states. the committee must not only focus on the member states where national investigations are also being carried out, but must also involve the european institutions. and as the last few weeks have shown, we can all be targets of espionage attacks, after not only members of this house, the european parliament, but a commissioner and eu officials and staff have been monitored with spyware. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. through hearings, studies and missions, we will do our utmost to uncover any allegations, to carefully investigate all leads and indications. we want to put an end to speculation. this discussion is a starting point. there's a lot at stake. we need a clear and sustainable strategy to combat the illegal use of spyware in order to protect the people affected and to protect europe's fundamental values and to win trust.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's the end of a long debate, and i think we're all aware of how much pressure we're under in the virtual world to protect our data. but how far have we come when governments in eu member states are using spyware like pegasus not to lawfully monitor real threats, but to monitor opposition and civil society? it is high time that we finally defend the fundamental right of european citizens to privacy on the world wide web with passion and vehemence. because this misuse of pegasus is a massive attack on our democracies. we are therefore now in great demand as legislators - commission, council and parliament. we have a responsibility to act effectively together. encryption, privacy by design and security by design must be considered at all levels of the technical value chain. we also need to invest heavily in prevention and awareness campaigns about spyware, and last but not least, we need to have serious consequences for all those who have abused and continue to abuse it as a by-product.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's been 1,637 days. osman kavala has been in turkish prison since 2017. he is 64 years old, an entrepreneur, a patron, a cultural activist, a human rights activist and a critic of the government and erdoğan's policies. he is accused of leading protests in gezi in 2013. there was no proof of that, but a life sentence was. is he the only one? i'm afraid not thousands are in erdoğan's prisons for fighting for freedom, for human rights or simply for the normal political right as mps or mayors 4,000 from the hdp party alone. in 2021 alone, 46 people died in turkish prisons because they were tortured or became ill. turkey is all of these. and mr erdoğan is moving further and further away from european standards. we must act against this.
mr president, dear commissioner, threats to stability and security shall never be the justification to leave the path of democracy. democracy, rule of law and human rights ensure freedom, stability and prosperity. fortunately, many countries in western and sahelian africa consequently stand by this principle. but they are threatened not only by a difficult economic situation and the consequences of climate change, but also by questionable developments in the region: armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, military coups, followed by the depletion of basic human rights, refugee movements, and the lack of basic social services, education and even food. putin’s war against freedom and international law does not take place only in ukraine. western and sahelian africa has already become a battlefield of his aggression. the russian government so far denies any links to the wagner group, but confirmed operations in mali and libya, which resulted in serious human rights abuses. indeed, we also have to answer the question what responsibility the european union and the member states have for this situation. the european union is obliged to defend stable democracy and the rule of law in the region. it has to support the fight for security and stability and against human suffering and despair.
i have to say, madam president, the unhcr forecasts that 8.3 million people will have to flee ukraine. it is truly incredible: this is the population of my member state, austria. 90% of them are women, but 2,300 unaccompanied minors were also registered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as rapporteur on the roaming regulation, i was particularly concerned that the women who had fled could continue to be in contact with their relatives and friends in ukraine. together with commissioner breton, i was able to convince the european telecommunications companies that the provision of sim cards for ukrainian refugees was unbureaucratic, but also that roaming charges for ukrainian providers had to be reduced, so that refugees would not have to pay huge costs for calling or sending messages to their loved ones back home. an important step for the hundreds of thousands of ukrainian women now in the eu to make their lives a little bit easier.
in writing. it is the values of art 2 tec that define our community. the erosion of the rule of law must not become a trend within our union. we cannot tell the outside world that the copenhagen criteria must only be in place at the time of accession, and then we look the other way. we are a union of values and we must be credible in that too! the right and the safety of critical public expression is a core element of a free and democratic society, but it is also becoming increasingly difficult within the eu. the application of slapp lawsuits, the control of state media and the surveillance of media, journalists and human rights defenders through the use of spyware make this fundamental freedom a dangerous activity and a direct threat to democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the commission's report is essential but it is open to expansion. it needs to be extended to include an assessment of all the rule of law measures implemented in the previous year, including an analysis of their effectiveness and suggestions for improvement. but here's the thing. writing reports is not enough. there must be consequences! it is necessary to have country-specific recommendations and concrete follow-up if these recommendations are not implemented. preventive action at the political level is essential, but reports alone cannot deter an autocrat.
mr president, north macedonia has undertook huge, very huge reforms. and north macedonia, to say precisely, the people of north macedonia deserve that we start with the eu negotiations. the bulgarian veto does not solve any of the existing problems and none of the issues which were raised today. the veto affects not only north macedonia negatively, it also affects the european union negatively, and most negatively affected is sofia and bulgaria itself. so i don’t know why we are not taking up the chances which are lying on the table for north macedonia, for bulgaria and the whole european union. so therefore, dear colleagues, it’s not any time to waste on huge discussions. it is time to start the negotiations, where you can put every issue you want on the table – that is the best: a ‘green light’ for the negotiations, for north macedonia.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, thank you commissioner to be with us for this debate and also for your words and for the content. sometimes i think maybe we need also you to take over this issue to move quicker forward. but anyway, i want to thank also the rapporteur, isabel santos, for this report and everybody who also contributed to this, because i think it’s an excellent report which outlined what was done, which is tremendous, and also what needs to be done further. i think it is important in the outline to say also albania undertook a very important reform and also deserves that we start with the negotiation now. when we say we wanted negotiations to start, it’s not for the albanian political establishment, it’s not for edi rama that we need to start – it is for the albanian people. it is for the albanian young generation, which also want to see their future in the european union. they want to see us also to start for them and to open the door to come to this european future. there is a long path, but we have to start to go it.
mr president, europe’s energy crisis is not the lack of natural gas that we have, but it is our dependence on natural gas. fossil fuels are not only the drivers of climate change, they are now also instruments of war. and i want to thank the commission for the repowereu plan, because our future, the basis of our liberty and our democracy, depend on its success. we have to become the continent where the energy future of tomorrow actually happens today and where we leap into that development. we need to have a decentralised, renewables-based system with a strong european grid supported by sustainable storage solutions. we need to have affordable, clean heat in insulated homes all across the european union. we need a solar carpet covering all unused spaces and a green economy powering the growth of the future. it is the only future that we have, and i know that we have been working on these developments for many years, but we will need to speed it up. we will have to leap into the energy future of tomorrow today, otherwise our freedom also depends on that.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. commissioner, thank you for making yourself available for this exchange. you have the full support of the farm-to-fork strategy, because we know it's urgent and it's burning: the cost of inaction is increasing every year. and the thing about pesticides is, the more pesticides we use, the more they damage not only the health of the soil, not only our own microbiome, but they also damage the environment, the water, the air, the animals, the pollinators. so it's very important that we understand what sustainable agriculture is, what sustainability means. and that's certainly not the use of any chemical pesticide, and certainly not highly dangerous pesticides. i don't know if you're aware of this, but there are french studies that have done 80% reduction in pesticides and found that there is no loss of yield. there are even studies from italy which show that even with a 95% reduction in neonicotinoids, there is still no loss of yield. this shows very clearly that we have an overuse of pesticides. so my question is, are you going to do something about it? will you keep your word? are you really pushing this sud and the farm-to-fork goals? and will the sustainable use of pesticides really be introduced before the summer?
i have to say, madam president, i have no question, just a comment: as a beekeeper, i will look carefully at what you want to do about pollinators. not only are you responsible for our food, but you're also responsible for a hopefully good and non-toxic honey.
i have to say, madam president, it is an absolute fact that air travel is a rapidly growing source of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide. if we are to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 - and i hope that a large majority of our colleagues here still support this objective - then all sectors must contribute, including air transport. yes, we are talking about a global industry, a global industry, a global problem. but unfortunately, far too little is happening on an international level, and we can't wait for someone else to organize it for us. the eu must be bolder on this. the international icao system covers only a tiny fraction of the emissions. it is absolutely ridiculous what is being presented as a solution at the moment. and above all, it provides no incentive to use alternative technologies that are more environmentally friendly. the eu ets is the better system and we should also use it to its full potential in air transport. the revenue can be used specifically for the use of new alternative fuels and thus really help to find solutions for the future. in recent years, far too little has been done, and some eu member states have also been far too inactive in this area. it is time to change that, and we are doing so now with this legislation as part of the "fit for 55" package. it is time to show the world of international aviation where the future of travel is headed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if in my home country, austria, the production of a good emits 1 tonne of co2, and if the production of that good is then - for example because of excessive requirements - moved to a third country, then statistically speaking, 1.9 tonnes of co2 are emitted there, almost twice as much. it would, of course, be sensible to continue producing this good in austria. this safeguards jobs, value creation and innovation and is also environmentally sound. what is the european commission doing? they're betting everything on moving production overseas. there are new goals and requirements all the time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. competitiveness on the world market, job security, value creation and innovation at home - these are all things that brussels does not care about. this strategy of driving industry out of europe is highly damaging to the environment, counterproductive and pointless. and that's all there is to say about this dangerous piece of crap.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we voted overwhelmingly for the green deal here a year ago today. and tomorrow we'll see if the green deal is just green or if it's going to be a deal. but i don't see a deal if we weaken our airports and airlines with a one-sided emissions trading system. i also see no deal if we undermine technological neutrality by banning the combustion engine, shift our dependence on resources to china and fail to exploit our great strength in research and development. a green deal needs green jobs. it would be a deal to regulate aviation as it is: international. and it would be a deal if we were to expand good, sustainable and produced in europe biofuels and synthetic fuels, because to maintain our competitiveness and to achieve our climate targets quickly we need all the technologies, and that is why europe needs the combustion engine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are going to adopt a series of ambitious climate targets tomorrow, and we really have the opportunity to make europe more climate-friendly and take our technologies with us to the rest of the world. but what is threatened to us in the lulucf regulation is unfortunately far from reality. we want to increase the current target of 310 million tonnes by another 50 million tonnes. and, commissioner, do you know how many hectares of forest are storing the co2 here? that's another four million acres of forest. this is half the size of austria, my home country, which we should now magically bring here overnight and store co2. how can you do that? how do you really do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us really look at the numbers and ask our farmers what these numbers mean and how we can implement them. let's not play numbers here.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the attack on the catholic church of st. francis in the city of owo during a pentecost service left up to 100 people killed or severely injured. there were many attacks by jihadist groups on churches in the north of nigeria before, but never before did an incident like this take place that far away from the field of action of boko haram. it happened in south-western nigeria, where christians and muslims used to live together peacefully. with only 187 police officers responsible for 100 people, the security system is underdeveloped and, in some parts of the region, does not exist at all and is in no way able to tackle terrorism. there is lack of trust in the judicial system. the structure of state institutions cannot match the enormous population growth. the european union is well-advised in its own interests to show initiative and contribute to create a perspective and stability, above all, with regard to the situation of other neighbouring west african countries. it is urgent that, post-cotonou, the joint africa-eu strategy and global gateway come into effect.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in principle, it must be the task of a state to ensure that its legislation prohibits forced labour and punishes it accordingly. it is sad that forced labour is not only found in third countries, but also in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. it is important to ban forced labour products from the market, but even more important to find the right people behind them, but also to ensure that companies are only accused based on sufficient evidence. it is unnecessary for many, especially small firms, to have any possibility of obtaining information on their working conditions from their indirect suppliers in third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. in short, we in the epp welcome a wto-compliant trade instrument, because forced labour must have no place on this planet in the 21st century.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to face the coming winter it is imperative to fill up the strategic gas reserves. however, the cost of raw material interferes with this operation. the price of gas is now around 120 euros per megawatt hour, compared with 19 euros a year ago. and this is not only because of the war in ukraine and russian interference, but also because of the unmanageable speculation that plagues international markets. the five star movement is calling for an immediate cap on the price of gas, but also for a tax on financial transactions in energy markets to tie the hands of speculators. we also call on the commission to proceed with the joint purchase of gas, but without forgetting the real long-term objective, the ecological transition, which can only be achieved through a new european recovery fund intended exclusively for the financing of the latter. a key step towards a green european union that is no longer dependent on fossil fuels.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr buşoi and his entire team on the agreement reached on an important and urgent matter. these measures mean that the european union will be better prepared to deal with new crises and increases in energy demand. i would point out the introduction of the mandatory minimum of 80% for gas storage and i am pleased to say that my country, portugal, is well placed to meet it. but this is only one of the steps needed to ensure energy security in the european union. it is also necessary to diversify sources, suppliers and resources, build the infrastructure that is still lacking, increase energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy and create the conditions for a true hydrogen economy and society.
mr president, mr vice-president timmermans, it is a pleasure to have you here today and to tell you that, from our point of view, this directive was more than necessary, because it removes one of the reasons for the speculation we had in the gas market in the european union, namely the lack of a mandatory minimum level of storage of natural gas. and obviously now we have to look a little bit at what the next step is: available capacity. i would like to ask you, mr vice-president timmermans, to make these salt mines compulsory for use in gas storage, since they are the only technical solution for the safe storage of hydrogen. why do some object to the use of salt mines? because they have a great advantage, which is not to the liking of the gas price speculators, that you can extract the gas every day if you want, unlike traditional deposits, where you can only do it twice a year. and that would make it possible to have a mechanism on the gas price and to limit these increases that are speculative. i would like to say what my colleagues have said: mr timmermans, please send commissioner simson a very clear message: the amsterdam gas hub is causing these increases, which are not justified, have nothing to do with the cost of buying gas and there are profits beyond the bounds of common sense. and commissioner vestager has started an inquiry into how prices are formed at this ttf gas hub in amsterdam and we hope to see a result of this inquiry soon, because it is unacceptable that there are 100% profit margins, that you cannot buy gas at one price and sell it five times as expensive. this led to inflation and led to a difficult economic situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, it's about the fact that we need more gas in the gas tanks. but i have to say, professor krasnodębski actually made a good point. what do you fill the gas tanks with? with russian gas! the gas that is currently being used to finance the bloody war in ukraine. we cannot ignore that, of course. because the conclusion he has gleefully drawn from this, that we shouldn't have railed about the money, is of course completely wrong. this is not the way we have to go now. we must now - and this is the next task for this parliament - talk about how we can finally massively expand renewable energy and renewable energy storage. what we've done in the pandemic -- that suddenly a lot of companies have been producing ventilators, producing masks, that suddenly a lot of people have been working in a field that they haven't worked in before -- we need that now. we need companies that produce solar panels, that produce heat pumps, and many people who have the opportunity to install them in european homes. we must do this now, and not rely on coal, which would be the wrong way to go. and when in austria they say: "no need to panic", you really wonder what people do for a living. because that's a problem we have to solve now.
in writing. the tragic events of 24 june, when some 2,000 people attempted to cross the border fence between morocco and the spanish enclave of melilla, killing 37 people, are another wake-up call and demonstrate once again the need for a european migration policy of solidarity and human rights. the deadly violence by security forces at the eu's external borders must finally come to an end. there are eyewitness reports that moroccan officials have forced refugees who had already reached spanish soil back to morocco. these refugees, many of them minors, have a right to seek asylum, but this right is denied them by 20 foot high walls - many of them have fallen to their deaths. our thoughts are with the victims of the violence and their families. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it is understandable that cooperation with partner countries must play an essential role in europe's asylum and migration policy. but this cooperation must not be used to suspend human rights violations. on the contrary, it must effectively combat trafficking in human beings and provide opportunities for legal immigration. europe is a union of values, we must not abandon the member states on the external borders. we need a policy of solidarity with migrants, as well as solidarity with people seeking protection.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission is not the digital services act is a very good example of the increasing restriction of freedom of expression and press in the eu. critical opinions are branded as hate speech or misinformation, and under this pretext, a relic of bygone days is now being revived - censorship. it is precisely in those areas where opposition to the eu's anti-citizen policy is growing that the eu now wants to censor and suppress these unwelcome opinions. this applies to criticism of unchecked mass immigration, of increasing centralisation or even of climate policy. and to put it bluntly, the only limit to freedom of expression is criminal law. we do not need additional eu censorship. the many correct and important approaches of the digital services act are unfortunately being undermined by this attempt to introduce censorship through the back door. the eu does not need to point the finger at the east. there is enough dirt on our doorstep to be swept, and the increasing restriction of freedom of speech is undoubtedly part of it.
i'm not going to tell you. thank you very much for allowing us to speak so quickly. biodiversity is a global crisis. i think it is good that we are consulting here, and i think it is very good that we are implementing very ambitious objectives at european level. but my question is: how can we help to make the biodiversity crisis visible in other parts of the world? what concrete steps are you taking as commissioner in this area to really bring attention to this and to really promote biodiversity not only in europe but also in other parts of the world? because i'm already very confident that if we all implement our green deal goals, we'll still want to provide food security. how do you know that some of the production in other parts of the world is not going on in worse conditions and destroying the environment in other parts of the world? that is a very specific question.
mr president, first of all, i want to mention the sound of the commission is very low, so maybe the technicians can increase the sound a bit. my further question would be, do you think that with regard to the cop15 resolution, can there be really part of food security, and also with the context of the war in ukraine and with the changes of delivery of wheat to north africa – what is your expectation on this topic?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, the last good year of bosnia-herzegovina’s path towards the european union, on its european path, was 2016, when bosnia submitted its candidacy application for the membership in the european union; six years ago. and the current political situation in bosnia-herzegovina is also the best indicator that progress cannot be found without consensus. bosnia must use the new circumstances, which are those of the ukraine crisis and the candidate status for ukraine and moldova. but it’s up to the commission to submit also its evaluation as soon as possible, and it’s on the other side up to bosnia-herzegovina to finally fulfil the main part of this obligation. but in order to succeed in doing so, it takes also a significant change in the behaviour of the political leaders in bosnia-herzegovina, especially of the leaders of the specific entities, to overcome divisions and to work towards a european future. this is what is necessary, and what is about bosnia.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i can simply continue where my colleague lukas mandl also stopped. in a summary, kosovo is moving forward, is making progress. it’s more stable than it was before politically. and also it undertook a lot of reforms, but much more have to come also. and i think there are two important things. the one is the belgrade-pristina dialogue, which has to be strengthened and emphasised, and the other one is the visa liberalisation. every precondition is fulfilled, but still what we are missing is the green light for visa liberalisation. and this blocking is stealing the young generation of kosovo its future chances and therefore it’s unacceptable. and also, we discussed this issue with the background of a european council, which was concerning the western balkans european perspective, slightly saying disappointing. it was a council which did not give the answers which the western balkans citizens expect from the european union and what they deserve from the european union. there was no answer, only disappointment. and i would say even today, looking at the commission – not to you commissioner lenarčič – but the absent commissioner for enlargement is of high symbolic value that the european union is missing a western balkan politics. and honestly, it is unacceptable that the enlargement commissioner is not here and it is symbolic of how we do also our politics. not enough.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, first of all, thank you to our two rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. dear visitors, please come to the house. the european investment bank is the only international financial institution owned by our member states and which contributes to the common objectives of the european union through our european legislation. the european investment bank has done an excellent job in these crisis-ridden years. last year, with 95 billion in loans, many smes were able to get support for their investments and - mr president, you have already mentioned this - also this important vaccine research and production by biontech/pfizer. the european investment bank has, of course, faced new challenges in february, which we must now tackle in the future. the european investment bank has long been committed to the green deal. by 2025, 50% of the loan volume is to be used for climate finance. what is important for the future is that digitisation, innovation and research are given top priority, particularly in relation to the green deal. sustainability also means that the process of transformation is successful, that the employment and competitiveness of european enterprises are also safeguarded in this change. i welcome the investment made by the european investment fund in education and thus directly in the labour market. we should also use these investments to support the dual training of teachers in the future. germany, switzerland and austria show that this system is the best way to promote employment and, above all, to combat youth unemployment. not to fix it with the european globalisation adjustment fund, as we have just done in spain and france, but to invest proactively in dual training; i believe that this is what will best serve the citizens of europe. mr hoyer, i congratulate you and thank your team for the excellent work you have done.
mr president, commissioner, and honourable members of the presidency of the council! the fact that the post-cotonou agreement has not been signed to date is the justified cause of a massive loss of confidence in relations between the african, caribbean and pacific countries and the european union. this is to the detriment of the european union and plays into the hands of putin's russia. and to start with, it's not about unfettered immigration, it's about giving young people, all people in these countries, a future and a perspective. it is not about giving and taking, but about achieving common goals, about being able to work together and to benefit each other. the responsible parties who are delaying the entry into force of the agreement must be named, because they are harming the european union and its citizens. one aspect that is particularly important to me is that education must be given top priority. it is the key to employment, stability and a sustainable outlook for the lives of people in their home countries. let us not leave the countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific to the influence of putin and china. let us follow our words with action!
i have to say, madam president, a member of this house, a member of the european parliament, was spied on. the phone of nikos androulakis was tapped. to this day, he doesn't know, and to this day, we don't know why. it is therefore essential that we deal with these events here in the house and that we give him the opportunity to speak about them. it is a matter of democracy, freedom and the rule of law when cell phones are tapped by members of this house, but also journalists. we have to discuss this, and i therefore urge that the agenda not be changed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu forest strategy is crucial to the success of the eu green deal. we need multifunctional, sustainably managed forests if we are to achieve our climate and environmental goals. but without the active use of the renewable resource wood and the involvement of forest owners, it will not be possible. we must therefore speak out clearly against the new obstacles to sustainable forest management and to the empowerment of forest owners and the principle of subsidiarity in forestry policy. the forest owners are the ones who are giving life to the eu forest strategy by implementing it on their land, their property. they must therefore be taken into account in future forest legislation. so too do the eu countries, regions and communities, which know the diversity of europe's forests and can set up targeted forestry policies. in forestry, we are ready to contribute with our know-how, our renewable resources. we are ready to support the transition to a sustainable europe and to showcase the many benefits of europe's multifunctional, sustainably managed forests.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the midst of the energy crisis, with energy prices exploding, the eu commission wants to limit and reduce energy production from wood - that is precisely the consequence of this forest strategy. the use of the only renewable raw material readily available in europe for energy production is to be massively restricted and reduced. and people are right to ask themselves whether the eu is still in a state of comfort. in recent years, in the interests of sustainability and regional development, a large number of plants for the production of energy from wood have been built: biomass, wood chips, pellet plants, combined heat and power plants. the commission wants to destroy all this with a stroke of its pen. the european energy supply is threatened with the stroke of a pen. and in the midst of the economic crisis, countless jobs are being destroyed at the stroke of a pen. and with a stroke of a pen, world-class know-how in the field of energy production from wood is destroyed. the commission is thus making itself the greatest enemy of its own citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. finally, something is happening! the eu's deforestation law, put simply, no longer allows products such as corn, beef or soy to be imported into the eu from deforested areas. a great success that we are celebrating here, and a big thank you to everyone who worked on it. in recent years we have increasingly tightened the conditions for production for our farmers in the eu. and now we finally move in, and there's a lot of work going on here. because it is more than fair that only products that are produced in the same or at least in close proximity to the same conditions in the eu should be allowed to enter the eu. but this law can only be a beginning for the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's farmers. and there's a lot of work to be done here in the future. it is fair to our farmers, it is fair to our consumers and it is a great contribution to the protection of the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. where is greece going? the way we handle this wiretap thing will tell. and the greek prime minister must take issue with the question of whether greece is heading towards autocracy. but he has the power to answer and disarm that question as well. if there's nothing to hide, why isn't the committee of inquiry public? if there's nothing to cover up, why doesn't mr. androulakis find out why he was bugged? and then i wonder why journalists in the european parliament are saying that they feel lonely. there can be something wrong with that, and that means for us to look very closely at this situation, how this country is developing and what steps are being taken now. the commission must also consider what steps are to be taken, because it seems that countries are falling into line. and it seems that the violation of the rule of law has become a matter of course when it comes to the use of such spyware.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. mental health was one of the most pressing concerns raised by young people at the conference on the future of europe. it is therefore regrettable that there is no full debate here in the european parliament's plenary, that we are discussing this topical subject at a time when the visitors' gallery is empty and young people cannot hear and see this parliament dealing with a subject that is so important to them. we have declared this year a european year of youth, partly because young europeans are among the most affected by the impact of covid. the situation of mental health among children and adolescents has reached an alarming level. the number of children and adolescents affected by mental health problems in the eu has increased from 10% to 20% before the pandemic to 20% to 25% in the last two years. the suicide rate among youths has skyrocketed. this sad development is a clear call to action for all policy makers. the adoption of this report by the plenary should be a first step towards significant improvements for children and young people in europe. let's learn the lessons of this pandemic. covid should be an opportunity to implement measures and investments in education that have been needed for a long time and even before. school is a place of interpersonal relationships and social contact. schools should therefore be kept open for future crises or pandemics. early childhood education and care facilities are particularly important for the educational and psychological development of children and their offerings should be expanded accordingly. let us create better conditions in the learning environment through school psychologists and staff for special educational needs. we need more funding and a more inclusive approach for erasmus+, the creative europe programme and the european solidarity corps. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy. let us finally achieve the goal of a european education area by 2025. a healthy learning environment prevents mental problems, particularly by including arts, culture, music and sport in the curricula. small local cultural initiatives, sports clubs and leisure facilities providing voluntary youth work need to be given more support and more financial resources. we will make education and digital infrastructure more accessible to all pupils, including those from disadvantaged backgrounds and in rural areas. let's implement measures to raise awareness among young people about the risks of digital technologies such as violence, cyberbullying and disinformation. the european union must also coordinate effectively with the member states, especially with our cities and towns, with regional cultural, sporting and educational institutions. a gender-specific approach and, in particular, stronger support for girls affected by mental health problems, bullying and violence are needed. the report was prepared with the involvement of a wide range of practitioners and researchers from the fields of culture, education, sport and youth psychology. recent studies on the impact of covid-related closures of schools, cultural, sports and recreational facilities have also been received, and the authors of these studies have been consulted. i thank you for the good, constructive and purposeful cooperation. the european year of youth is a time for action and action must follow. let us show the young people of europe that they are the future of the european union.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let's call it what it is. we feel that europe must turn its back on the energy question. in the past few months we have been fighting hard in the committee on transport to ensure that existing hydropower plants can also be counted towards the production of green hydrogen. it is all the more incomprehensible that the renewable energy directive is now discussing that these hydropower plants, which have been producing wonderful green electricity for many years, should not be counted for the production of green hydrogen. ladies and gentlemen, nobody in my home country of austria understands this. in austria, 61% of electricity is generated from hydropower. we have less wind and less sun than many other member states. in the spirit of subsidiarity, please, you cannot take that away from us. that is why i am calling for support for our amendments nos 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14. let us use our existing hydrogen potential, not only in austria but in the whole european union, on the common path to climate neutrality.
i have to say, madam president, we really don't have time to act. the citizens of the union, our businessmen and women, have no time to wait for real action. we are facing a harsh winter here - for many people who also write to me that they are already looking at their energy bills with despair, entrepreneurs who are afraid that they will not be able to continue their businesses in winter. however, there are some member states, such as austria, where i feel the motto is more like 'it won't be that bad'. but this is not a serious policy against inflation, against the exploding electricity prices. europe can no longer wait for a drastic and really tangible relief, and europe can no longer wait for clear energy saving targets. europe cannot wait any longer for us to finally give a radical priority to the expansion of renewables. better done than perfect. we really don't have time to waste, and it's up to us to deliver here.
the commission has already done so. the new european bauhaus is an opportunity and indeed has the potential, like its historical model, to become a cultural movement and to create new consciousness. but it will only succeed if it reaches the people of europe, if it does not become an elitist project, if europeans can also imagine something of it, if there is no conflict between urban centres and rural areas, if access is social, equitable and inclusive. the neue bauhaus can play a decisive role in this context, particularly in times of rising energy prices and the acute risk of impoverishing millions of households in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but under no circumstances can the neue bauhaus be financed from existing funds and programmes which have already reached their limits and which the commission is constantly trying to reduce. if we actively create the conditions for sustainable social and economic development, we will improve the quality of life in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that much of what you have said today can and must be supported. but the key point is that we must not underestimate the social consequences of this crisis. the citizens can no longer afford to live. they are groaning under inflation, rising food prices and, of course, skyrocketing energy prices. that is why it is important to take the surplus, it is important and good to redistribute to those households who can no longer afford to live. but it also requires a radical intervention in the energy markets. the way these energy markets are designed and organized, they no longer work. energy market liberalisation has failed because at the end of the day it cannot guarantee supply or reasonable prices. we must therefore also be careful not to liberalize too much in other areas, as the commission sometimes proposes, for example in the railway sector. i believe that the commission has a duty to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european economy is facing dark times. the increasing number of burden packages is weakening competitiveness. whether it is the implementation of the green deal or the sanctions against russia, there is simply no accompanying measures for our companies. one in five german companies is considering moving its production site abroad. the statements of the german minister of economy that the bakery should temporarily close because of high energy costs and that the population can shop at the discount store cheaper, do not only create confidence. this is very bad for the german economy, but also for the european economy. it is therefore all the more important that we now rapidly reduce energy costs at european level for the benefit of businesses, jobs and competitiveness. the european union must now show that it will not be economically brought to its knees by self-appointed political alpha-wolves.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and the council, ladies and gentlemen! i really wish i could do this speech differently today. but nothing has changed. so once again , the hungarian government under viktor orbán has been systematically and deliberately undermining democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in its own country for years. this applies to almost all areas, such as the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression and assembly, freedom of teaching in universities, women's and minority rights. the european parliament has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia. in 2018, the eu parliament initiated the article 7 procedure against hungary in the hope that it will be conducted with the necessary seriousness. four years have passed since then, the procedure has stalled and we have to watch the situation in hungary deteriorate further and further. in this report we are detailing and factualizing this and again highlighting the systematic violation of the european values enshrined in article 2 of the eu treaty. we call on the council to finally present and adopt binding recommendations with timetables. and we also have high hopes for the consultation mechanism which the commission has now set in motion. the council and the commission can both be sure of parliament's support. i hope to see broad support for the vote tomorrow and i thank my group for the confidence it has placed in me to lead the report for the s&d group. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gwendoline delbos-corfield, for her really good work. the rule of law in europe!
madam president, dear commissioner, when huge oil fields were discovered on the shores of lake albert in uganda in 2006, it was hoped that this would lead to a significant new source of foreign investment for economic uprising. but the hope is offset by the great potential danger of the plans, which have been marred by allegations of human rights violations, slow payments, disruption of children’s education, loss of traditional sources of livelihood, and unclear resettlement processes. the health, food security and water supply of hundreds of thousands of people would be threatened, and the expected oil spills would affect people’s livelihoods as well as the rich ecosystem, nature and climate. journalists and activists who would report critically on the developments are intimidated and, in some cases, arrested. ecologically diversity is threatened. up to 140 oil wells are to be drilled in murchison falls national park. we need to listen, inform and respond to communities concerned in uganda and tanzania. and we need to defend the human rights defenders and ensure human rights advocates, journalists and civil society groups are free to carry out the work in communities at risk.
the commission has already done so. cohesion is a fundamental idea of the european union. cohesion policy is at the heart of european policy and it must succeed, because the future of europe is decided in rural areas and in those regions which feel left behind, which are deindustrialised. this is also very clear in the fact that there is more eu-skepticism than in other regions, that nationalist ideas are more strongly pursued there and that brexit was not decided in urban centres, but precisely in these regions. europe must therefore act there and bring the programmes to the people who live there. regional policy is more than agricultural, industrial and economic support. it's about being socioeconomically effective. it needs childcare, education, cultural services, health facilities, mobility, energy efficiency, and also disaster prevention and protection. i can cover because that is what constanze krehl has been living, and i would like to thank you, constanze, from the bottom of my heart for your work and also congratulate you on this report. have a good day.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on international trade. the commission has already made a number of proposals. energy costs, shortages and rising energy prices are increasingly placing our industrial enterprises in difficulty, and many of them have already had to close production lines or close factories. our strategy, our reorientation is very positive, but now we must also take action. we need a rapid reduction in energy costs, we need intensive research funding. it is superfluous to discuss in committee whether or not horizon europe is being cut back, whether or not the council will allow it. in austria we have a 14% research premium. this is the best support we can get from our industrial enterprises. it is also important that we support our industrial enterprises in diversifying their export markets. we want to avoid dependencies, and to do that we must also encourage them. and last but not least, fast approval procedures. i looked at this in the commission proposal, but it will take about three years to implement it. help quickly, and you'll help twice. commissioner, please work quickly to make our industrial companies better off soon, because in our country industry is already talking about a total failure of the european union.
i have to say, madam president, as an entrepreneur, i can tell you that since the last sme debate in this house, on the one hand, everything has changed, on the other hand, nothing has. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they must not forget that our smes are still weakened by the covid pandemic and are currently facing problems with funding, supply chains and staff shortages, as well as increasing bureaucratic constraints. and the biggest problem is the enormous price increases for them. i also welcome the commission's sme package. but still: we must act quickly now to get these price increases under control. commissioner, i must say, from the point of view of smes, it is really five minutes to midnight!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the coronavirus pandemic has shown that nation-state approaches are totally irresponsible in such a situation. they are not useful in normal times, but in a common crisis, we need more solidarity and cooperation. but it has also become clear that the european union has clearly not enough competence in this area. people looked to brussels for answers and solutions, but europe has had too few options, and we must change that. we will now take steps with these regulations to better prepare for and respond to future pandemics. we will also invest in research and development, reduce dependence and facilitate joint procurement. and one thing is very, very important to me personally, and that is where we need to get to, which is to have strong public health systems in europe. they are the central anchor for people in times of crisis, and this must also be coupled with real precautionary thinking in the health sector.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. putin's war against democracy, freedom and european values is taking place in ukraine. another scene, however, is on the african continent. russia is building its disinformation network on west africa with the aim of denigrating the european presence, emphasizing and expanding the allegedly positive russian influence. military coup after military coup, we regularly discuss here in the european parliament the causes, consequences and consequences. burkina faso, which translates as "the land of the upright", has been shaken by a military coup for the second time in eight months. the european union must act and tackle the causes of this development. only then can the dramatic security and supply situation be brought under control. only then can the people be supported in their quest for democracy, peace, stability and the rule of law. what is striking, unfortunately, is that trust in europe has fallen sharply. the mass protests and violent riots that preceded the coup were directed against the transitional government, but also against french institutions and companies. the demonstrators demanded the withdrawal of france and waved russian flags. the new leader, traoré, announced in a televised speech that he would reconsider his partnership with france and seek and find other partners to help in the fight against terrorism. the head of the wagner mercenary corps, prigoschin, assured his support in a statement. these events and statements should be a wake-up call to the european union. the russian influence and disinformation will only be eradicated if the people on the ground feel that europe is a credible partner in the fight for a better life and prospects in their home countries. i appreciate all the effort.
in writing. water scarcity, drought and drought, floods and floods have been a frequent feature of recent global news coverage. in fact, 90% of all natural disasters are water-related. at the same time, water is a foundation of life. access to water could therefore not be more essential. however, three out of ten people in the world do not have access to safe drinking water. 40% of the world's population lives in regions where water is regularly scarce. we have now made it clear once again in the european parliament that access to this basic necessity of life is a human right. the focus is also on women and children who suffer from the inequitable distribution of water resources. in addition, refugees must be guaranteed access to water and sanitation. overall, water needs to be protected as a public good, as the scarce - not endless - resource is already over-exploited. this includes ensuring that companies are water-friendly throughout their supply chain and that consumers are transparently informed of the water footprint of a product. so let's do everything we can to make water a human right, not just on paper, and protect this precious resource. water, a basis of life - for all equally!
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, for many years, russia has continued to use information warfare and other hybrid threats to weaken our democracies. russian aggression against ukraine has only deepened this, from spreading lies about the brave people of ukraine, to cynically claiming that putin’s russia is a defender of traditional values. we must fight putin’s propaganda, and there are concrete measures we can take. first, we must strengthen our stratcom units on both national and eu level, including the under—funded and under—staffed east stratcom unit. we must actively expose the kremlin’s lies and, at the same time, actively communicate to our citizens our policies and actions. second, although propaganda is not a new phenomenon, it has been exacerbated by social media. we can only successfully fight russian propaganda if social media are part of the solution. third, we must defend freedom of speech, and that’s why we mustn’t allow ‘cancel culture’ or any similar trends. at the same time, we must understand that freedom of speech belongs to individuals, and not to bots or any anonymous social media accounts. dear colleagues, just as the ukrainian people are bravely fighting putin’s aggression, so must we not be afraid to give them all our support, and to fight putin’s propaganda and lies. truth will conquer, and it will win over lies.
mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, today and every day we feel the power of the russian disinformation campaign. disinformers also exploit the fear of rising energy prices to incite hatred among people. this is why measures against price increases at both european and national level are so important. we must fight the war of misinformation by refuting lies and half-truths. and since we are not going to be able to put down a blue card in this debate today, i would ask my colleague mr david to give me a written answer. so who funds the blocked disinformation websites if they claim it's not russia and its allies? if he doesn't know the real investor, then he can't spread this misinformation. i thank the commission and the czech presidency for their efforts and call for even greater financial support for effective instruments such as stratcom and the european digital observatory. ladies and gentlemen, our greatest weapon is the conviction that the truth is on our side.
the respected chairman! my dear colleagues! the kremlin has been bombarding europe with propaganda for years. therefore, there was no strong european response to the russian aggression in georgia and crimea, which would have possibly prevented the war in ukraine. putin is not able to improve the standard of living of ordinary russians. instead, they cultivate the myth of the good liberators of europe from fascism. the non-condemnation of the oaths of these liberators at that time encouraged russia to complete inhumanity in ukraine. in fact, russia is the country that is now ruled by a fascist regime. the european union budget already includes a pilot project i developed to combat russian disinformation, but it needs more serious funding. disinformation has made the russian nation sick, as evidenced by its widespread support for the terrible war in ukraine. we need to block access to all kremlin media. there's no freedom of speech because russia lies all the time. we must get rid of the kremlin ideologues in europe and increase arms supplies to ukraine. we must be as determined as the ukrainians in the karabakh to fight russian propaganda. thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a russian newspaper published today a column by the former austrian foreign minister of the fpö, karin kneissl. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas market is not affected by the crisis. the putin sympathizers in austria and the european union are not only standing for a literal kneeling, as in the case of karin kneissl, but for complete moral decay. a styrian communist party deputy described ukraine as a crippled state and repeated well-known lies, for example that the sanctions were against international law. what's the official austria doing? chancellor nehammer is meeting with some of the most influential putin sympathizers: viktor orbán and aleksandar vučić. russia has perfected the war of lies, but the truth remains: russia is the aggressor, vladimir putin is a war criminal, and ukraine must win this war.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals. firstly, trade agreements are primarily for the mutual benefit of free trade. trade agreements should not be used to unilaterally impose one's own world view on the trading partner. this total overloading of trade agreements with ideological wishes is a dead end and is driving the eu further and further into isolation. secondly, sanctions in trade agreements: sanctions against trading partners and the suspension of trade agreements should and must always be the ultimate measure, the last resort, when the essential interests of eu member states are threatened. the required sanctions for non-compliance with the paris climate targets should therefore be rejected. given the enormous energy needs of emerging countries, excessive demands would only push them further into the arms of china, rather than making them reliable partners for the eu. unfortunately, we have to face the fact that europe's weight in relation to other global players is continuing to decline. and the european commission is unfortunately accelerating this development. in future, therefore, it will take a sense of reality and a lot of tact to be able to conclude really good trade agreements. i regret that both are missing from the commission's 15-point action plan on trade and sustainable development.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i never thought that as an austrian mp i would be giving a speech three times on the plight of the people of haiti. it is absolutely necessary. in recent months the situation, which already seemed hopeless, has reached a dramatic climax. the haitian authorities are powerless to deal with the scale of gang crime. in the first half of this year alone, some 800 people were killed and 540 people were kidnapped. the director of a children's home in port-au-prince reports that 14- and 15-year-old boys have machine guns around their necks, ready to shoot anyone. more than a third of the population is food insecure, with some 220 000 children suffering from acute malnutrition. the blockade of the capital's main oil terminal has led to fuel shortages, leaving hospitals unable to provide basic medical care, including for pregnant women and children. the european union must take effective action: it must provide the authorities with the means and know-how to help them build the rule of law, democracy and infrastructure.
the commission has already done so. the greatest problem for our prosperity and cohesion in europe is dependence on imports. we see this in many areas: in energy supply, in the problems of global supply chains, but also in the agricultural sector. russia - it's been mentioned today - is the world's largest exporter of fertilisers. up to 60% of the fertilisers used in the eu come from russia or belarus. we all know the strain on farms. the price increases, the problem of keeping products, do not stop there either. and it has to be a concerted effort by all of us to intervene in a supportive way. the food supply of the citizens is at stake, but so is the survival of many farms. so far as the current situation is concerned, and i think we're all in agreement here. on the other hand, it is a fact that the reckless use of pesticides and fertilizers is causing a massive strain on our soil, water and air. and as the shadow rapporteur on the environment committee's regulation on the reduction of methane emissions, it should be noted that the unnecessary use of synthetic and mineral fertilisers also leads to an increase in methane emissions. we can continue as we have been, but what is really important is to change things. we must move faster towards the self-imposed targets we have, 50 per cent less pesticides and 20 per cent less fertilisers. it has been shown that pesticide use and over-fertilization in the soil cause problems in the area of nutrient supply and also in soil fertility. so a profound change is needed. we have certainly missed an opportunity in the common agricultural policy. the fact that we have abandoned the obligation to grow legumes in the order of their fruitfulness can now be safely described as a mistake. so let's use this challenge as an opportunity to drive change!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. european agriculture is facing major challenges. this year has been particularly marked by the scarcity of fertilisers in the european union, which is a serious threat to food production. there is a shortage of gas and 60% of the fertiliser is imported from russia and belarus. but we also need to look at the fertiliser suppliers in the eu. the czech babiš group agrofert is currently threatened with a merger with the austrian fertiliser manufacturer borealis to become the second largest nitrogen producer in the eu. we cannot look the other way when a large industrialist is gaining even more market power here, when there are already almost no fertiliser producers in the european union with their own hands. this is an additional price driver and brings additional unrest to the european market. i would ask you, commissioner, to take these circumstances into account. the european commission has the opportunity to intervene here, and i ask you to pay close attention to that when it comes to it. help us to prevent the european fertiliser industry from being sold off.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not there is so much to criticize about the current eu transport policy that i really don't know where to start. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. and the expansion of alternative fuel infrastructure is completely pointless unless a fundamental problem is solved: where will the electricity for the millions of electric cars come from? road, rail, air and sea transport - all sectors of transport are to be converted to alternative fuels. the unrealistic timetable and the exaggerated objectives of this proposal alone will require billions of investment, and all without first ensuring an affordable and reliable supply of electricity. the affordable and reliable supply of the highly industrialized eu member states is not technically feasible with wind and solar farms. so we will continue to be dependent to some extent on fossil fuels. the rules of physics and technology cannot be replaced by ideological fantasies. and all the other problems that these fantasies bring - the loss of jobs, the loss of mobility, the loss of know-how or the increasing dependence on critical raw materials, lithium or rare earths or the problems of disposal and recycling and so on - i won't even mention them. and let's not forget that we're also in the middle of a dramatic energy and supply crisis right now. you've got to face facts. these projects are helping to reduce traffic poverty. mobility is becoming a luxury, especially in rural areas. finally, please present realistic and technically feasible plans for the energy supply in the eu countries. then and only then can we talk about what it looks like to build the infrastructure for electric cars.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can certainly make a profit on some of the savings proposals, but certainly not on horizon in heading 1. the future of europe depends on four strategic pillars: research, development, innovation and digitalisation. i know that many of you here are not good with economics and technology. but think of the green deal, which can only be implemented with new research and new technologies. only 17% of global r & d expenditure comes from the european union. and we also need to catch up on investment in our companies. here we are behind the united states, china, japan and south korea in percentage terms. it is particularly important at this time of change to position ourselves strongly in the global competition and to underpin our leadership, our claim to economic leadership. the focus must therefore be on those programmes which are certain to strengthen europe in the geopolitical environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the swiss playwright max frisch wrote a famous play, biedermann and the firemen. it's about the fact that the citizen biedermann lets two arsonists into his house and believes that by making them feel good, he can prevent them from setting the house on fire. and how does the play end? the house is on fire and mr. biedermann is risking his life. and the same thing is happening now to the common european home: that it is being set on fire and burned to a great extent. as in sweden, where the moderates only get support from the sweden democrats because of their desire to hold on to power or because of their greed for power. or as soon as in spain, where the popular party is getting closer and closer to the vox. or as in italy, where berlusconi and others have long since moved to the extreme right. or as it happens in austria under black and blue and sebastian kurz. and at the end, at the end of all of these things, there's the judge, who has to convict many of these politicians. but in the end, our democracy and the common european project suffer too.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. every year, when we debate the court's report, we ask ourselves the same question: what is the error rate, and how much of it is due to fraud or lack of knowledge about the handling of eu funds? large companies have departments which are exclusively concerned with the application and processing of eu grants. but what do medium-sized companies do that do not have this expertise? many do not even try to submit something because they do not go to the trouble of doing so. but it also means that we are losing a great deal of potential. i can therefore only agree with the statement made by the austrian representative to the european court of auditors, mrs berger, that we must simplify the support models for smes so that everyone has the same opportunities. i am convinced that this will certainly not lead to more fraud in the funding.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for many of us, it probably wouldn't have taken the global crisis and the war in ukraine to realize how important the western balkans are to europe and how european and how much the western balkans are part of europe. but it must be stressed once again that we must not forget the countries of the western balkans in the waiting room of the european union. on the contrary, we must bring them to us as quickly as possible. we must also support the reforms that are being carried out, for example, in north macedonia. we must also support albania in its reforms and enable it to become a member of the european community as soon as possible. we need visa liberalisation for the citizens of kosovo, just as we cannot leave the people of bosnia and herzegovina alone at this moment, where they have shown in the elections that they are in favour of reform and have voted down and voted down the old elites. last but not least, we must not be indifferent to the situation of the rule of law in serbia. the european union must be much stronger and more efficient in this respect and must also defend european values with a firm hand towards serbia and serbian president vučić.
the commission has already done so. the economic and social crisis in tunisia has reached a dramatic climax in recent days. the state's bankruptcy was only averted by a 1.9 billion pound imf loan over the weekend. and the imf is demanding unpopular reforms, such as freezing the salaries of the bloated public service and cutting subsidies for energy and food. these savings plans will be painful for many tunisians. for weeks, basic foodstuffs such as rice and sugar have been completely sold out, even bottled water has been rationed at times, and fuel is in short supply. the government blames the war in ukraine on speculators who hoard food to sell it on the black market. economists, on the other hand, blame bad fiscal policy. of course, short-term credit alone does not guarantee a sustainable future. a tunisian student summed up in an interview: "if the money is not used for reforms, it will flow back into the pockets of the elite, whose policies drive the youth out of the country". many tunisians are looking for a way to europe. just a few days ago, 18 young tunisian refugees lost their lives in a boating accident. the european union must do everything possible to give the people of the country a new perspective. tunisia must return to democracy as soon as possible, and thus to stability and optimism.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. from 2019 to 2021, enough calories were produced to feed the world's population. it is therefore even a surplus of 24%. yet the number of people suffering from acute hunger is increasing rapidly and continues to do so. the latest data from the united nations are alarming. food insecurity has reached a ten-year high, driven by rising food and energy costs and also by the aftermath of war. but basically, we have enough food in this world. the problem is access to it, its distribution. and hunger is a direct consequence of poverty. three examples of the dramatic impact of climate change, war and inflation in already troubled acp countries: in sudan, food prices rose by almost 150% in one year, in ethiopia by 50%, and in the solomon islands rice and milk prices tripled. the european union acted quickly last week by pledging a 100 million euro grant to the imf's poverty reduction and growth trust fund. that's a first step. however, it needs additional funding, debt relief programmes and an effective fight against corruption. because we need 50 billion dollars to end acute food insecurity in the next 12 months. no one should go hungry, not in africa, not in europe, not anywhere else in the world.
the commission has already done so. sigmund freud wrote to albert einstein in a letter: "everything that promotes the development of culture also works against war". the russian war has attacked the culture of ukraine. the consequences: flight and expulsion, cancelled concerts and performances, destroyed museums, theatres, concert halls, cultural sites and cultural monuments. nevertheless, culture plays a big role, as we remember the impressive images of ukrainian choirs and orchestras playing music in the open air. you have made a powerful statement about the incredible importance of culture in the face of this war of aggression and the power it has. putin's war is a cultural war against everything ukrainian. russian troops have seized 1,700 valuable artifacts from melitopol, including a 1,500-year-old gold diamond set with precious stones, one of the world's most valuable artifacts from the time of the hun king attila. unesco has documented damage to some 200 buildings and monuments in 12 regions of ukraine since the war began. russian occupiers shot dead the ukrainian conductor yuri kerpatenko, who refused to collaborate with them. and at the same time, russia is sending its own cultural workers into this war. the aggression of putin is an attack on our european values, on democracy, cultural diversity and freedom, but also on russian culture and russian humanism. the war also poses serious problems for the cultural sector in the european union. in addition to the after-effects of the pandemic, cultural workers are struggling with the sharp rise in inflation, the associated price increase and a decline in purchasing power. the energy crisis will present cultural operators with problems that are difficult to cope with, especially this winter. the european union must not make cuts in the cultural budget and must not justify the war in any way. to the call for the war to be financed by cuts in culture, winston churchill is said to have said: "what are we fighting for then?" we are fighting for european values.
the commission has already done so. repowereu has to solve the urgent problem of our energy supply, to get us out of dependence on energy imports, to guarantee affordable, secure and sustainable energy for europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy and its implementation in the context of the union's climate change strategy. while repowereu overlaps with many other programmes and also with cohesion policy, to be successful it must involve all the levels involved at national, regional and local level and above all be socially inclusive. repowereu must not be financed at the expense of the people by under-funding and missing out on other eu programmes and projects. repowereu is not an instrument of cohesion policy or environmental and climate protection. but abandoning climate action is not an option, especially in the wake of the un cop27 climate conference in sharm el-sheikh.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. nextgenerationeu is the union's largest joint funding programme, benefiting member states directly in the form of grants on the one hand and loans on the other. this will be achieved by raising eur 150 billion annually until 2026. the decision to adopt this comprehensive programme was necessary to cope with the reconstruction in the individual member states. i congratulate the commission on the success of the loan programme. because one thing is clear: we cannot put the next generation in a debt-backpack, let alone slide into a debt union. yes, the ecb's raising of key interest rates is necessary to combat inflation. it is therefore all the more important that the institutional agreement on the introduction of additional own resources be implemented swiftly.
i have to say, madam president, the main purpose of this bond programme is not to promote specifically promising sectors of the economy, but simply to break the taboo of finally being able to borrow. under the pretext of crisis management, the eu is simply extending its powers in the budgetary field, and that is all there is to it. and in addition, the funds are also allocated in an opaque manner and without any parliamentary control. in reality, the eu is distributing debt-based money to the member states in a completely purposeless, uncontrolled, more or less arbitrary manner, breaking its own rules. and it is the height of arrogance to call the whole thing "nextgenerationeu". the next generation will be left with nothing but a mountain of debt and an even more bloated union. it is a moral image of this commission: undemocratic, non-transparent, costly and pointless.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. many studies and business practice show that publicly traded companies with a gender balance also perform better in their business results. that is why it is important from an economic point of view that an agreement be reached now. it is gratifying that those member states which have already done the preliminary work are now exempted, because they already have the relevant laws guaranteeing fair and transparent selection procedures. but one thing we have to realize in this debate is that we are talking about a microcosm of very successful and also well-educated women. i am very concerned about the fact that we should encourage girls in basic education to study the so-called stem subjects, because then they will not only be able to work in more profitable companies and thus in better paid sectors, but will also have an easier time breaking through the glass ceiling in the future.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the interinstitutional agreement on the creation of new own resources must go ahead. firstly, because we need to find the money to repay the nextgenerationeu loan without burdening the community budget by cutting programmes that citizens are waiting for, but also to finance the new social climate fund and tackle energy poverty. the commission's proposal is therefore supported by parliament, which calls for specifics and improvements, and we are strongly critical of the council, which is late and does not honour its signature of the interinstitutional agreement. the european parliament, mr hahn, is also asking for the next step on own resources to be even more ambitious, because that is how we can overcome the permanent contradiction between net contributors and net receivers which keeps the budget of the european union at the extremely low level of 1% of european gdp. and we expect you, finally, to come up with a drastic proposal to tax the great wealth. the european union, which has been at the forefront of tackling climate change, cannot fail to take the lead in this area too, at a time when social and fiscal inequalities are dangerously increasing.
the european commission wants to be able to levy taxes in addition to those levied by the member states. a tax that corporations levy on citizens. what does the commission do with this money? it gives this money to the big pharmaceutical companies in opaque multibillion-dollar deals that give the appearance of a conflict of interest. it gives this money to foundations that pay human traffickers to bring in migrants illegally. and it gives this money to ukraine where it disappears into the pockets of corrupt businessmen and politicians, all the way to the united states! because the big guy needs to get his cut, too. it gives these companies money to exercise total control over people through digital money systems. this european commission is taking away the jobs, the property and the freedom of the ordinary man. the only hope for the citizens is their own state. with patriotic politicians fighting this satanic web trash. this proposal must be thrown out of the window immediately.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why does the european union need more of its own resources, more of its own budgetary resources? because they create more space, because they make us crisis-proof. the fact that the european union has historically been almost entirely dependent on the will of the member states for major budgetary decisions has been a design flaw. and those who say that possible sources, such as emissions trading, are burdening companies, can finally start doing their homework at home, looking at their own tax systems and reducing unnecessary burdens on entrepreneurs and citizens. we take responsibility for the climate. we are taking responsibility for a sustainable economy of the future in europe. and we are now at last working to give the union more freedom to make the key investment decisions for the future of its citizens more independently and autonomously.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate mr picula on this text, because it is urgently needed and a very important and good text. we must become more flexible, we must become more transparent and, above all, we must become more rapid in the process of enlargement of the european union and probably also more rigorous in respect of adherence to our values, the implementation of reforms and the fundamental orientation of european foreign policy. the balkans need a clear signal from the european union. the citizens of the balkans have long been waiting for a clear signal from the european union. i have said this many times here and we have discussed it many times here in the european parliament. but recent events, including geopolitical events, have once again shown that it is high time for a dynamic and strong enlargement process.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union is facing another migration crisis. the small country of austria has already received 100,000 more asylum applications this year than in the record year of 2015. and even though we are a landlocked country, 75 percent of our refugees have not been registered in any other eu or schengen country. it is therefore high time for a common migration policy which makes a clear distinction between migrants and economic refugees, which ensures effective external border controls, which takes a hard line against smugglers and their multibillion-dollar business, and, last but not least, which also takes account of the distribution of refugees without a pull factor. the council and parliament have committed themselves to implementing the proposals of the commission's pact on asylum and migration. this should be our top priority now, because our citizens are frightened by the many crises. and i think we all don't want those empty rows to get filled up over there on the right.
madam president, commissioner simson, ladies and gentlemen, after months and months of requests, yesterday the commission finally proposed the gas market correction mechanism, but the extraordinary effort which the european states were called upon to make, as mario draghi had repeatedly stressed, does not seem to have been put into practice. we knew that the proposal would be delayed, but that it was so weak, almost useless, was a surprise. the mechanism, if it is adopted, could only be applied in practice to conditions much worse than those experienced in recent months, and we obviously do not wish that to happen. we are now awaiting the discussion of the energy ministers tomorrow, and we hope that the proposal will be substantially amended so that it can really have a deterrent effect on speculative behaviour. when europe is not courageous, we must say so, and in this case europe is the member states. it is to them and to the commission, perhaps too timid, that we must ask for an answer.
madam president, in september, here in this very place, i dared to warn of the dramatic consequences of the energy situation in the european union. nothing has changed. rations are rising, shortages are taking hold. we're abusing our children by locking temperatures in their schools at 19 degrees. and the french prime minister can no longer hide that the power cuts will inevitably take place. in this context, what solutions do you recommend? the single energy market. what incompetence! because it is precisely because of this market that electricity is so expensive. a market that harmonises energy prices raises the lowest and lowers the highest. the european union has been constantly sabotaging the most affordable source of electricity, nuclear power, by imposing the liberalisation of electricity and the dismantling of edf. and let us not forget macron, who closed down fessenheim and shut down half of france's nuclear fleet. but also because the suicidal european sanctions have pushed up the price ceiling for oil and gas. this european energy market is not a solution, but a cause of the disaster. we must get out of this situation as a matter of urgency, as several european countries have already done wisely. i told you we'd end up in the cold and dark. that prediction is coming true. if we do not abandon the ideology to which we sacrifice our basic living conditions, we will return to an energetic middle ages, all lit by a small object. this little object, it's called a candle.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. since russia has weaponized energy supplies, a new question has arisen: how will the energy supply, primarily natural gas, work for the few years until sufficient renewable energy is available? yes, additional gas infrastructure will have to be built in the short term, and unfinished business is now falling at our feet in the eu. commissioner simson, you mentioned a number of new interconnectors and you added very quietly that member states are now abandoning the isolation of their energy markets. it is good that this is so, and it was long overdue, because now the tasks are bigger and more urgent than protecting our own markets. the member states must be able to provide each other with supplies and support in the event of energy shortages. but it is important that the new gas infrastructure that is being built must be ready for the transport of hydrogen, because otherwise these investments will be obsolete in a few years. therefore, public funding should only be available if the new infrastructure is also suitable for hydrogen.
madam president, dear commissioner, tomorrow we will be able to observe a jubilee, because i counted and our energy ministers will meet for the 10th time since the start of russia’s invasion of ukraine. in february, views were exchanged, and there was a discussion in june at some point – the energy crisis wasn’t even on the agenda. at another meeting repowereu was welcomed, and at some point there was at least a commitment to reduce gas demand. in september and october, at multiple meetings, we again had lots of discussions and proposals. i’m sorry, but it is bloody november and some people might even be wondering: ‘what are they actually doing for a living?’ our citizens and our businesses demand more. they want solutions. they want actions. so obviously, i guess we all wonder what will happen tomorrow – proposing to propose another proposal by the proposing entity? at this point, i don’t think we can even afford any more to have a debate about pros and cons in certain models, but the best model would probably be the one that we can agree on to finally move on, for actions that our citizens and businesses desperately need.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is really sad that in the 21st century we still have to discuss the issue of violence against women. violence against women is first and foremost a terrible weakness of a not insignificant group of men. there's nothing to gloss over. this is certainly not a chivalrous offense, it's just criminal. it's a punishment, a psychological work-up. but those at risk must also take responsibility for their own failures. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the legal protection of the environment is guaranteed. but some countries still have to sign the istanbul convention. i would also like to see a campaign at european level to raise public awareness and to increase civil courage. only weak men beat women; strong men stand by them as equals.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the russian invasion of ukraine is a turning point in european history and has caused unimaginable human suffering. the european union is therefore called upon to find new solutions. i therefore support the commission's proposal to grant ukraine loans of eur 18 billion. i would like to deal with two aspects of budgetary control. firstly, the idea of a diversified financing strategy is very sensible. however, parliament still lacks information on transparency, governance, risk management and methodology. a delegated act might be a solution here. secondly, who will bear the burden of interest after 2027 if member states are unable or unwilling to pay? i am of course in favour of the commission's proposal, but i am convinced that we still have some internal matters to settle.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr charles goerens, and his shadow rapporteurs in the committee on development and cooperation for the important points they have taken from the opinion of the committee on budgets on the new european financial architecture for development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the refugees, including the establishment of a european asylum system. the creation of economic opportunities on the ground also reduces the influx of economic refugees into the european union. it is therefore essential to provide development aid with adequate resources. to ensure that every tax euro is used as effectively as possible, it is now up to the ebrd, the eib and the national development banks to avoid duplication and to work together in a common thread to achieve european development aid objectives.
a writer. the commission has already done so. since the armed conflict between the army of the democratic republic of congo and the militia escalated again on 23 march, over 262 000 people have been displaced, the vast majority of them women and children. 2.4 million children suffer from acute malnutrition. 7.5 million people currently lack access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation. the united nations documents serious human rights violations, sexual violence against women and forced child labour. the conditions in the refugee camps are dramatic. the violence is not accidental the region in eastern congo is rich in mineral resources. the armed groups also finance themselves through the illegal trade in minerals that are important for the arms industry. the neighbouring countries, especially the rwandan government, are called upon to stop the illegal trade in minerals through their countries, to stop any funding of rebel groups. the european commission must send clear messages with the eu strategy for the african great lakes and provide humanitarian aid to the people affected by the catastrophic circumstances in the democratic republic of congo.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in austria, 680 animals were torn from their wolves last year; by november of this year, there were 730 confirmed wolf tears. yes, we can see this as a success that an endangered species has finally spread again, but we also have to see the problems. and now, if my colleagues come here with great ideas - we need guard dogs, two-metre high fences or shepherds - i invite them all to come to an alpine meadow next summer at an altitude of 1500 to 2000 metres in the high alpine region and then put up a fence or tend a flock of sheep. have fun with it, it's just not gonna work. and, commissioner, you cannot just walk away from your responsibilities here. we have been waiting for concrete proposals since 2019, and nothing has come. we need a sensible european wolf management that is based on science and facts, and we need a reassessment of the conservation status so that our member states finally have the necessary leeway to carry out a sensible wolf management.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are once again witnessing a very emotional debate about the return of the wolf to our habitat. what i really criticize is the way in which some political forces have in recent years raised a debate which has been detached from the facts and without concrete proposals for action and solutions has acted and worked primarily with fears. the wolf is a great danger to man and beast. i have already criticised this as a member of a regional parliament, and i am doing so again today. and yes, if there are problem animals, then you have to be consistent. it is clear that we must support grazing and rearing in this great challenge for our landscape, for our ecosystem and that the freedom of movement in nature must continue. agriculture needs all possible support, including financial support. we have enough funds and programmes to make this possible and even to provide additional funds. the present resolution - which is supported by six political groups - is a good example of a good and objective resolution, and i therefore ask you to support it and reject any further amendments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the wolf population in europe has now risen to over 20 000, a more than favourable conservation status. the number of wolf holes has therefore more than doubled in austria alone to almost 700 holes in one year. the eu rules, on the other hand, date back to 1992, when there were almost no wolves in europe. so it is high time that we took account of the changed situation. the alpine alpine and grazing industries are particularly at risk and the local authorities must therefore be able to react flexibly. and to do that, the wolf's conservation status in the habitats directive needs to be moved from annex 4 to annex 5. this would allow for rapid, efficient and above all legally secure action by the local authorities. that is why i am calling on the commission to abandon its blockade. let us continue to make possible a positive coexistence between man, wolf and farm animals!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the protection of our rural areas, our family farms, is a matter of great concern to me. i am here in parliament for them and i want to stand up for them too. the average alpine farmer in my home country of austria drives eleven animals onto the alpine meadow to eleven animals. and if even one falls victim to the wolf, it is a disaster; we are talking about 10 percent. this year, there have been some 1 200 such disasters in austria. 1 200 times the loss to farmers, 1 200 times the emotional toll and 1 200 times the avoidable suffering of animals. it is therefore urgently necessary, and i hope for the first time in the history of the european parliament, that a majority in this house should vote in favour of a sensible resolution in favour of rural people and small-scale farming, in favour of livestock farming and against the uncontrolled proliferation of wolves. there is much more at stake here, and the european commission must also recognize this. it's about checking the wolf on a scientific basis, the conservation status. it is not the wolf that is in danger of extinction, but our rural regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm really glad we're discussing this today. we've been fighting for a year to have the big predators on our agenda this week. and we have heard many examples in the last hour from all parts of europe that growing wolf populations are causing more and more damage, but also more and more suffering, and thus becoming a growing problem. and that is why it is all the better that we are finally discussing this today, because i believe that the eu institutions must not turn a blind eye to this, but must provide solutions. the commission, commissioner, we will take you up on your words and, by voting tomorrow on the resolution, we will ask you to take up the problem in a very concrete way, not only in terms of financial compensation but also in terms of practical solutions for the regions of the european union and, above all, for the smaller member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are discussing today our policy programme for the digital strategy, to be fit for the site of the future, as they say. it's about infrastructure, artificial intelligence, 5g, 6g, cloud computing, blockchain and much more. it's also about quantum computing, and i want to talk about that briefly. the report - and i congratulate you, madam rapporteur - emphasises that quantum computing capabilities are becoming a crucial prerequisite. by 2025, we want to have our first quantum computer, so that by 2030, we can be at the absolute top of quantum capabilities. and i think we have great potential as the european union to become a truly global leader in this area. i am proud to say, commissioner, that in my home region of tyrol, the world's first quantum architecture company is based. we need to create the conditions for such companies to be able to do this, so that a european ecosystem for quantum computing can change the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need a strong vision for europe's rural regions, as they are a key to solving many of today's challenges and a yardstick on the way to a more sustainable european economy. the commission has also been working on a number of proposals for the development of rural areas. i therefore have a heartfelt desire to see people in the regions more closely involved in eu policies. europe cannot be built without them. the future simply cannot be designed without them. with the long-term vision for rural areas, we are creating a forward-looking basis for the next generations to live well and above all to enjoy living in rural areas. europe needs the people in the regions as much as our farmers, forestry and energy producers. they are the ones who are implementing and giving life to the eu legislative projects on the way to a more independent and greener europe. europe needs stronger regions with good infrastructure, attractive educational and economic development opportunities. the eu commission must now move away from conflicting legislative initiatives and instead strengthen rural areas economically, ecologically and socially.
today, i have convened an extraordinary meeting of the conference of presidents on the application of rule 21 for the early termination of office of vice—president eva kaili. the conference of presidents unanimously decided to propose to parliament that it bring to an end the term of office of vice-president eva kaili, pursuant to rule 21 of the rules of procedure. parliament shall take a decision on that proposal today, at the beginning of the voting session at noon, acting by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast, constituting a majority of its component members.
we are discussing today one of the important documents in the fit for 55 series, renewable energy. first of all, i'd like to thank my colleague marcus pieper for reporting on this rather than a light matter. i greatly appreciate his efforts to find maximum support for a common approach. this is a really important document, which should mainly simplify the administrative process for renewable energy construction. we are indeed currently facing in many member states a situation where there are different settings, whether geographical, energy mix and these conditions are very complex. we should therefore not ignore a very different situation and take care to avoid crisis situations. we also need to take very seriously the need to maintain the stability of energy networks, as member states have to deal with back-up electricity even in the event of a power outage from renewable sources. i would like to thank mr pieper once again and i hope that together we will be able to find a sensible solution to this complex legislation, so that we can simplify and speed up the process on the one hand, but not create unnecessary crises in the supply of electricity or energy in general.
madam president, please. europe is facing an unprecedented energy crisis. european citizens are forced to pay a daily penalty surcharge for energy. so now we must focus all our efforts on solving the energy crisis. in the current situation, any initiative that increases the role of renewable energy and reduces red tape should be supported. the acceleration of the authorisation procedures can achieve both of these objectives at the same time, and i would like to thank mr pieper for his balanced report. however, it is important to note that to increase the weight of renewable energy, significant improvements to the electricity grid are also needed. this requires major investments, which can only be undertaken by a union with a strong economy. the harmful sanctions should therefore be abolished, the member states should be given their funds and all assistance should be given to the undertakings. it's the only way to deal with this crisis in a complex way.
madam president, mr timmermans, you have made a very good proposal because you, and we, and all those who are interested in having energy that is cheap and available, have found that this renewable energy is not available in the quantities that we need. why would you do that? well, what if the average approval and commissioning of a renewable project in the european union is seven years? there are member states that were 10 years old. so it was an absolutely unacceptable situation. that's why, the fact that we reduced the mandatory implementation time to nine months, the fact that we said that for the elements that have to come to operate these renewable energy parks, whether they're wind or solar, the approval time is limited to six months, so that we can get them up and running quickly and for the benefit of everyone. and i did one more thing. you know, everybody's tried and started putting solar panels on their homes now. i told everyone one thing: you don't need any kind of approval to put solar panels on your roof anymore. just send a simple notification and let's get this over with and get serious. and one last thing: we're going to fight to have hydroelectric plants. it's the only storage source we have available that we can use. without storage, we can't have renewable energy, we can't have the quantities we want. and to be consistent with our energy policy, that's something we want to do. and thank you again for all of you who have worked on this extremely important case.
i have to say, madam president, the energy crisis shows the destructive power of fossil fuels. they are destroying our climate, and they are destroying european security. renewable energy is our future, not just in the fight against climate catastrophe, but for european independence and affordable energy. these legislative changes finally give us the tools we need to really get into the permitting process, the bureaucracy. any unnecessary prolongation of the procedures for photovoltaic, wind energy or pumped storage is a hindrance to the freedom of european women. in vorarlberg, for example, in my home region, bureaucracy is threatening to unnecessarily prolong one of the most important infrastructure projects of the next 15 years: lünersee ii, a truly promising pumped storage project that will bring 1,000 megawatts of power to the entire cross-border region, is facing a process of six to eight years. it's too much. we can't afford that anymore. and this has to end for our freedom.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 3.8% of all european workers are employed in the cultural and creative sectors, which contribute a considerable 4.2% to european economic output. it is therefore high time that the strategic framework of european cultural policy was adapted to the challenges and pursued ambitious objectives. culture as a driver of sustainable development and social justice must be given top priority in the council's agenda until 2026, in the face of high inflation, inflation, war and horrendous energy prices. the aftermath of the pandemic is already being felt, and full recovery is years away. the professionalisation of the cultural and creative sectors is a contribution to countering precarious working conditions. let us create a common legal framework for fair working conditions, common minimum standards for all member states with adequate remuneration. the european parliament called for this european status of the artist last year. so far neither the council nor the commission have acted. but it's the culture that's worth fighting for.
the commission has already done so. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. and what we have experienced there is a region where a minimum of stability, a minimum of civilization, a minimum of just and free life has been made possible - namely in rojava, in north-eastern syria, in the autonomous region as well as in the autonomous region of kurdistan in iraq. what we are witnessing today is turkey's brutal attacks on this region, on the freedom of the people there, sometimes with chemical weapons on the civilian population and, moreover, with the great danger that the isis fighters who are being held there will be released up to 12 000 isis fighters. therefore, we need to act now, fast namely, to stop the attacks by turkey, to establish a no-fly zone and also to ensure that the representatives of rojava have an equal seat at the table at all future conferences on syria. we stand in full solidarity with the kurdish people in this hard struggle.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the events of the past few days, the past weekend, have left us all stunned. i too, although i have been active in legislative bodies at various levels for 25 years, have never seen anything like this. but it also makes it very clear, so poignantly and sadly, that we need a defense of democracy package very badly. institutions are under attack, from within and without. i only remember the hack after the russia resolution last week. the corruption scandal, the russian attacks and others all have a clear and unambiguous objective, namely the destabilisation of europe, the attack on a free, open and vibrant democracy. the commission's proposed regulations on political advertising, on party funding, on the extension of voting rights are good. but we need to reflect on the issue of whether we are going far enough or whether we need more, which is to better understand the impact of what is called covert financing and its impact on political activity and how authoritarian states try to buy in here in europe. the inge committee, as already mentioned, has investigated the events and has already stated several times in the report: it must be illegal to engage in covert activities funded by foreign actors aimed at influencing the european and national policy process. we must close the loopholes in our regulatory framework now, and make it democratic and invulnerable. so now is also the time to see the current events as a liberating blow and an opportunity to make our democracy and our rules clean, transparent and invulnerable.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. protests against the transitional government in chad have left up to 150 people dead. the number of injured is still unclear. more than 1,300 people have been arrested and tortured, and 200 are still missing. most of the prisoners are held in the high-security koro toro prison, 600 kilometers from the capital, in catastrophic conditions with temperatures of over 40 degrees celsius in summer and zero degrees celsius in winter. the announcement of his own candidacy and the extension of an 18-month transition period until elections by president mahamat déby, who succeeded his murdered father, brought people to the streets. the country is marked by serious violations of fundamental and human rights, and faces corruption, extreme poverty and widespread famine. the eu must respond to the humanitarian situation in the country and support the democratic transition with determination. an investigation into the violent suppression of peaceful protests is absolutely necessary. and it would take a joint statement from this house, the support of all members - and especially from the largest group in this house - to send a clear message that these weak people, who are in this situation, are being supported accordingly.
