madam president, mr president, do you really believe that your three promises of democracy, progress and peace can be fulfilled if europe does not become a chance for all? 137 million europeans live in rural areas. trust me, they don't just have to cross the street to get a job or get into a hospital. they have to travel long distances every day, tirelessly, and at a price, moreover, that keeps exploding. a significant proportion of these europeans have turned away from democracy by abstaining or, worse, by supporting the extremes. these citizens of the forgotten territories do not see europe as an opportunity to improve their lives and those of their families. they often see europe as an opportunity for others, those who do business, those who are hyper-connected or those who have done erasmus. not a single line, mr president, not a single word to tell them that the absolute priority of your presidency will be to offer them 5g, new technologies, or massive investment in public transport. not a word to the farmers either. every european citizen must be respected, regardless of his or her skin colour, beliefs, origin or geographical location. the real economic, social and democratic promise is that europe is a chance for all and for them too.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, the internet is a mirror; a mirror of the best and worst of our society. it mirrors the realities of our offline world. if the real offline world cannot be perfect, neither can the internet. but this does not mean that we should not try to make it a better and safer place, a place which respects freedom of speech while supporting our european businesses. this must be the goal of the digital services act. this is about creating a better system that will help us fight illegal content while giving citizens the right to challenge removals. it is about requiring the big giants to take a transparent look at themselves and to address the risks that are inherent within their systems. it is about making all providers, including marketplaces, understand that they have a social responsibility, and they must be honest and true in how they act towards us, their users. it is about protecting our children so they can avoid the worst of the internet. at the same time, we create a system that will support the growth of e—commerce and digital innovation in europe without unneeded over-regulation. we need start—ups, we need scale—ups in europe, and a system that works for them. today, we create a law and a justice system for the internet, a system that can work for the whole diverse internet. however, this law is just the first step. not the last one. we still have a lot of work ahead of us.
i have received the results of the second ballot for the election of quaestors. the results are as follows. members voting: 688. blank or void votes: 20. votes cast: 668. the votes were cast as follows: karol karski: 324 votes marcel kolaja: 344 votes on the basis of this second ballot, i therefore declare marcel kolaja elected as quaestor of the european parliament and i would like to congratulate him warmly on his election. in accordance with rules 18 and 17(2), the quaestors will take precedence in the order in which they were elected and, in the event of a tie, by age. the composition of the new bureau will be notified to the presidents of the institutions of the european union. thank you and congratulations.
we are now returning to the debate on the report by mrs christel schaldemose (a9-0356/2021).
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the digital services act is a key legislation of this term, changing the functioning of the digital market across the entire european union. first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms schaldemose, for her hard work done on this important file during the last few months. i would also like to express my support for the horizontal character of the text that we managed to maintain. my group was focused on preserving a robust and open digital economy in europe that proved its importance to citizens and businesses during the covid pandemic. this would not be possible without maintaining the key elements of the e—commerce directive, like the limited liability regime. in my capacity as the shadow rapporteur in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i mainly focus on strengthening the freedom-of-speech safeguards, on protecting users’ freedoms in the online world, and on removing the incentives that could cause hasty removal of content by platforms, which could consequently introduce soft internet censorship. indeed, the european conservatives and reformists support an open internet where users can move around freely, have content at their disposal and where their freedoms are respected. consequently, we closed loopholes in the text which would have encouraged the excessive removal of content, just in case there was a suspicion of its illegality. there was also a need to define when platforms should step in to tackle illegal content. there must be clarity so that users are preserved from the unilateral restriction of their freedom of expression. in this context, it is worth pointing out that we have succeeded in introducing some provisions to challenge platform discussions on content moderation. thanks to my group’s negotiations, the new tool will provide additional protection for users in the event of arbitrary decisions by websites. in addition to the platform’s internal complaints-handling system, users will be able to quickly and easily seek redress through the courts in their country of residence. it means that internet users will eventually gain access to robust tools, strengthening their position. however, despite a very good final text, i still believe it requires further improvements, especially regarding the introduction of social media definition, which has been included in my plenary amendments. member states cannot remain idle and inclusively rely on limited administrative capabilities, while very large social media platforms alter public discourse and arbitrarily influence the debate or are used for disinformation. i hope that during the trilogues with the council and the commission, together with members from other political groups, we will continue the dialogue and achieve a better digital environment for european citizens. we shall also remember that the digital market not only represents threats, but also great opportunities.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not years of legislative inaction and regulatory inaction have led to the development of a digital surveillance capitalism driven by the profit interests of facebook, google and others. the digital services act, the very law that we're discussing here and now and today, is designed to put an end to this digital state of nature. consumers must be protected, and businesses must be given clear rules to follow and ensure that they are respected, and transparency must be ensured. but unfortunately the present draft falls far short of these expectations and requirements. there is progress, for example, in banning so-called dark patterns - those confusion tactics that trick users into agreeing to data mining. the obligation for large platforms to make accessibility for people with disabilities is also good news, as is the proposal that companies must make some of their data accessible. however, the draft has serious shortcomings. instead of finally ending the unscrupulous business with our most personal data, the digital services act unfortunately stands at this point after the first step. i am of course in favour of banning personalised advertising to minors. however, in order to effectively protect users, the extraction of highly sensitive data must be prohibited. the profits of facebook and other internet giants cannot be based on our political or sexual orientation and our health data. the generous derogations now being proposed for small and mediumsized enterprises create a monster of bureaucracy. transparency rules should instead apply to all companies with more than 10 employees. the whistleblower frances haugen had already pointed out to us here in the european parliament in november that the loopholes for companies must be closed. we cannot continue to allow platforms to hide behind the protection of trade secrets and to evade transparency rules. the game of hiding behind the country of origin principle by platforms like airbnb must be stopped. only by strengthening the legal capacity of member states and improving cooperation between authorities and platforms can illegal content and infringements be tackled consistently in the interest of tenants . in the run-up to the negotiations, i met and consulted with many ngos and other civil society actors. i do not know who others have met, but this text hardly reflects the wishes of civil society, but above all the positions and interests of the companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it has been said many times that digital platforms have completely taken over our daily lives. in many cases they are also indispensable for some of our fellow citizens. but the cases of problems that have a truly catastrophic effect have been accumulating in recent years. and that is why it is late, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, but not too late for the european union to come to a decision of principle now with the law on digital services, which ensures once again that only what is right is allowed in europe. and the law in europe is made by the european parliament. and for that i would like to thank the rapporteur, but also our shadow rapporteur, arba kokalari, from the bottom of my heart. the fact that we are sitting here today after several months of hard negotiations and have found a compromise that certainly does not satisfy the epp group, but which also provides a good basis for negotiations with the council of ministers, is a great step forward, a great achievement of democracy. and for that, i want to thank you very much. i believe that the key achievement of the digital services act is that it brings order back to the digital single market. and that order has been destroyed in various places in the last few months. i just remember the news coverage, partly live coverage, of the terrorist attacks in new zealand. this is not something that should be on the internet. and with the digital services act, we're making sure that it can be monitored and banned in the future, as quickly as possible. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we in the epp group have fought to preserve the principle of country of origin - not to hide behind it, but to ensure that innovative companies - and it has been pointed out - that young companies can quickly take advantage of the whole market in europe and are not held back by the old national borders. we want innovation and the whole single market to be available to everyone. thirdly, i would like to mention here, of course, the points on which we are far from satisfied, even in the case of such compromises, and where we believe that we still need to work on some points. with fake news, it is certainly true that the big media companies can do a lot to fight fake news. whether we have actually reached the best middle ground here remains open. there will be a lot of work to do on algorithm transparency to ensure that third parties actually get enough insight and that the authorities don't always chase after them. and so there are other points, mr president, which i cannot mention here. i would like to thank all my colleagues. i believe that this cross-cutting legislation is a major step forward in ensuring that the law is back in power in europe and that the gatekeeper is not.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the digital services act is indeed a way to write a new digital constitution for europe. we want to strengthen the fight against illegal content, we want to protect internet users and above all we want to overcome national isolation. we will hold platforms like google, facebook and amazon to a greater responsibility. and we're going to make sure, above all, that they're going to give access to the data, that researchers are going to have access to the algorithms. we're making sure there are no more black boxes, but more transparency. but there is certainly room for improvement in this proposal. for example, the present compromise does too little to prevent personalised advertising. this house voted in my own-initiative report about a year ago to ban personalised advertising. and i would like to call on all members to vote this time, as they did last year, to ban personalised advertising - there are all these amendments to that effect - or at least to ensure that we severely restrict such personalised advertising - there are also amendments to that effect. the negotiations were very intense and i would like to thank the negotiator, mrs schaldemose, very much for her persistence and for working so quickly. but there are indeed amendments now which are making the compromise dangerous and endangering fundamental rights. some meps from the epp, especially from the cdu, are now trying to reintroduce upload filters via stay-down orders in the last few metres. we have discussed upload filters with great passion here. no, mr schwab, this is not fake news. and just today, commissioner breton uploaded a video, a western, a clip from the good, the bad and the ugly. he couldn't have done that if this house hadn't made sure that parody was still possible and that upload filters didn't filter out that content. and now there's an amendment that would introduce exactly this upload filter for all platforms through the back door. that is really, really, really, really indecent, ladies and gentlemen. i'm equally shocked that the same group of mps want to make sure that dark patterns remain legal, meaning that users are being pressured into consent to use their data for advertising. the motion for a resolution is therefore for a separate vote. this is a joke on the citizens, it must not go through. so hopefully we can get this done, that these split votes don't go through, that these upload filters don't come through, and that we, with the dsa, create an internet that's fair for all users.
mr president, madam vice-president of the european commission, mr commissioner, two centuries later, the union is finally taking its responsibilities in the face of the digital revolution. yes, two centuries, ladies and gentlemen, since the last major text on e-commerce was written in the year 2000 and twenty years in digital terms, that is two centuries. digital is part of our lives and brings many benefits, opportunities, but also new threats to citizens and democracies. i'm talking about counterfeit products sold online, fake news, misinformation, hate speech, harassment, cyber threats, and so on, and so on and so on. with the dsa, an imperative: in europe, what is forbidden offline must also be online. it is the end of the wild west and i invite you to watch a video on twitter that the commissioner has just posted and which i think is very effective in this respect. i am convinced that the sdc will make europe an example for the rest of the world. in fact, in contrast to the chinese model where the state controls everything and the american model which advocates laissez-faire, we propose a balanced text which will ensure fair competition for european companies and better protection of citizens' rights. with this text, we are forcing the platforms to face reality and take all their responsibilities, a new system of sanctions will be put in place and, above all, we are opening the black box of the algorithms. we're introducing more transparency into the algorithms. this is unprecedented legislation worldwide and the union is a pioneer in this field. i think we should be proud of that. the dsa is a good basis for future negotiations. and as president emmanuel macron reminded us here this morning, the conclusion of these discussions under the french presidency is both possible and necessary. we must work towards that goal.
president, ladies and gentlemen, in our modern democracy, much of the social debate takes place on social media such as facebook. these digital platforms are modern information marketplaces. but there are no alternatives to this. they are monopolists, and that gives these companies great power, too great power. because they abuse that power. they control, block and censor anyone who disagrees with them. after all, their multicultural model should not be questioned, or they call it hate speech. their lies can't be refuted, or they call it fake news. they are tyrants for whom citizens no longer have rights but are degraded to submissive consumers, dependent on the arbitrariness of the anonymous manager and the interests of the rootless shareholder. free speech is fundamental to a democracy, just as censorship is fundamental to a dictatorship. that's why it's an inalienable right. it is not the big tech user agreement, but the constitution and our european treaties that establish and protect that right to free speech. that's why we need to stop the illegal censorship by big tech and prosecute. what's legal offline should be legal online. protecting free speech, not facilitating censorship, should therefore be the starting point of this digital services act.
mr president, there is a lot of good in the digital services act. there will be more transparency, better consumer protection and uniform rules for the digital single market. but i'm very concerned about freedom of speech, a fundamental right. any exception must be limited to this and it is unacceptable that a few powerful private players should be allowed to arbitrarily censor public debate, that blind algorithms should silence citizens. the major internet platforms are the mail and letter boxes of the 21st century and they must be subject to universal service obligations. everyone should have the right to post messages and receive messages. and the big platforms should only be allowed to remove well-defined, manifestly illegal content. any other discussion of free speech is a matter for the courts in a state governed by the rule of law. i come from a member state where the constitution prohibits censorship. let this be a guide for the european union.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a report on sudan featured a conversation with a woman. she was raped and then pregnant. she dragged the perp into court. what do you think? she was flogged. he walked. these women have no life left. following the military coup of october 2021, which abolished the transition to a civilian-led sovereign council, civilians continued to play a key role and organize peaceful protest demonstrations. these were met by excessive force by the security services including sexual violence against women and girls , unlawful arrests, detentions and disappearances. the public services were purged. this violence must stop immediately and the state of emergency be lifted. the eu should support the efforts of the un interim transition assistance mission to sudan to smoothly conduct a dialogue on the return to civilian rule, in line with the 2019 constitutional declaration and with a clear timetable, and to this end should also cooperate with the african union and the countries in the region. the eu should also press for sudan's ratification of the rome statute of the international criminal court.
madam president, i would like to start by telling you a short story. many among us know of a girl who did not want to stay pregnant or who got pregnant when she didn’t want to become pregnant or who was raped. where i come from, i saw girls at school who died because they were pregnant. not only because they wanted an abortion and didn’t get it and had to do it illegally, but sometimes because their parents kicked him out. i was about 16 when my neighbour killed his daughter because she was pregnant. at school, some girls were sent out because they were pregnant. but who made them pregnant? these people didn’t get any punishment and didn’t take any responsibility. when i remember the speech by simone de beauvoir in the french parliament, what she was saying was not that abortion should become some kind of pill or condom. she was saying that we cannot abandon women, that we need to understand them, to help them and to have a legal framework to support doctors who can help them, that, as a society, we are responsible together. we cannot let girls die. when i was a teenager, when a girl died because she tried illegal abortion, people would say ‘it was abortion’, like you would say ‘it was malaria’ or ‘it was an accident’. this is what happened. today i would say i support legislation to help women have a free and safe abortion. but i have a question. why does this parliament always keep quiet when mostly women can’t even decide if they want to have sex with the husband? they are imposed. please think about that. we all deserve the same rights.
mr president, commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, young people have paid the price of the covid crisis. and today, their unemployment rate is skyrocketing, making their future even more fragile. paradoxically, all over europe, our companies are failing to recruit. craftsmen, hoteliers, restaurateurs, farmers, family carers: in all these sectors there is a serious shortage of labour, which is hampering the recovery all over europe. so what can we offer, funds, financing? there are already a number of them. initiatives for mobility? they exist here too. perhaps we should simplify and coordinate things better. but i think that we must above all encourage the member states to set up training schemes that are adapted to the needs of the economic world. this is how we can help young people who are full of energy and good ideas.
mr president, colleagues, i have some pictures of some of the thousands of young people and children i have met and supported together with the romanian press over the last eight years. they have never heard of erasmus, the guarantees for young people and children, alma. all of these things are very far from the problems that they have. their concerns are to have adequate clothing and food every day, to have a tablet to log into online classes, to find a profession or a job for a more decent living. the pandemic has made it difficult for them to survive. their housing became increasingly cramped, and their quality of life declined exponentially. in this difficult context, the authorities in my country, romania, ignored these issues last year, ignored the rise in youth unemployment to 20 percent, ignored the psychological effects of the pandemic, and forgot about youth programs. we have to go beyond the speeches because real life is what we have shown in the photographs and if we fail to do something concrete, then our functions are irrelevant. the european commission must act now and urge member states not to ignore these realities.
mr president, i am delighted that president von der leyen has designated 2022 the european year of youth. it is a fitting response to the challenges that our young people faced during the covid—19 pandemic and goes to show that every adversity can create a new opportunity. there is no doubt that this parliament needs to follow through on our promises to provide a new vision for young people which is green, digital and more inclusive. this year, young people will be a clear priority across all eu policy and funding areas. the pandemic has been extremely difficult in many ways, but for me it has also highlighted the important role that sporting clubs play in the fabric and history of local communities, especially in rural areas. we also need to pay attention to young people in disadvantaged areas, who particularly benefit from organised activities in their locality. i look forward to the launch of the aim, learn, master, achieve (alma) project for the disadvantaged young people. let’s make 2022 a year to remember for our youth.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the debate today confirmed that on youth our institutions see eye to eye and confirms also that we are ready to continue to work constructively together and with member states to turn our political commitments into concrete reality. and i fully agree with everyone here who said that concrete means concrete, that we need to have the programmes which will reach those who need the support and those who want the support. so i also agree that we cannot design the programmes for the young people without the young people, and i can confirm on behalf of the commission that we are designing all the programmes which concern the young people together with them. we are consulting the best way because this is not only about having the programme, the money in it, but also the method, how we distribute the support and how also the coordination and collaboration with the member states work. so i think that it is a very clear outcome of this debate that the commitments we are making have to lead to efficient investments into the young generation. our young people deserve nothing less than that, and we need to join forces at all levels to support our youth and the next generation. investing in our children and our youth is the best way to build a more resilient and inclusive society as a cornerstone of a strong european union. i am convinced that the european union is the best address still for children and for young people. but we have to do everything to keep this state of affairs and also to look at those who need our active support. we have to do everything to guarantee that the young generation will have better lives than their parents.
president of the council. mr president, thank you for this debate which has, i believe, shown a broad consensus on this priority given to youth, which, i would remind you, is therefore the theme of our year 2022 and a priority for the french presidency of the council of the european union. we have said, and you have said it many times, that there is no such thing as an isolated policy that targets only young people. it is a general effort that we are making for growth, for investment, for our health policy itself. but i want to mention a few points that many of you have mentioned and which also call for perhaps more intensive action in conjunction with the european commission. the issue of mental health is indeed a vital one. i am pleased that in the health programmes, especially in the new budget, we have put this issue of mental health at the heart of european priorities because indeed, here too, through the covid crisis, it is often young people who have suffered the most from these difficult conditions, sometimes with an impact on their mental health. several people have raised the question of paid internships. on behalf of the presidency, i cannot have a collective or unanimous position, since this is a matter for our individual member states. but i would point out that in recent years several member states, including france, have moved to incorporate this obligation to pay into our laws. this is particularly the case in my country. mrs sander, you have in particular stressed the issue of vocational training. i believe that this is an effort which we must strengthen by drawing on good practice from other member states. in france, for example, we have tried to draw inspiration from the successes of apprenticeship in germany, which has allowed us to increase our apprenticeship training very significantly in recent years. many other examples could be cited in europe. i would simply like to say, finally, that we also have a responsibility to the young people who are listening to or hearing our debates. we can have disagreements about the tools to fight the pandemic. i do not think that we can make anyone believe anything about the question of vaccines, and i say this because there are different procedures in the member states, but we have all taken restrictive measures. it is not cheerful, but the tools we put in place to encourage vaccination, sometimes putting in place passes to restrict certain activities, is the best way to not have general closures that are, as we have said, we know, particularly painful for the younger generation. so this is also an effort we are making, above all, for our young people.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the covid-19 pandemic has had devastating effects on the employment, education, training and mental well-being of young europeans. responding to the aspirations, employment and career prospects of those who are entering or have recently entered the labour market must be an eu priority. young people have suffered the most from job and income loss in those sectors where they are most present and have been most affected by the pandemic, such as retail, hospitality and tourism. the effects of school closures and social distancing on the psychological, social and educational dimensions of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable groups were equally important. the effectiveness of measures such as the 'enhanced youth guarantee' programme or initiatives such as alma will depend on the success of their proper implementation. much more needs to be done to enable young people to play a key role in shaping employment and social policies, to ensure quality learning and work opportunities, and to put an end to low wages and new forms of exploitation and discrimination.
the covid-19 pandemic has gripped our society for almost two years now. the impact on our young people is huge. first and foremost, there is the closure of educational institutions with potentially major implications for learning disability. but also the closure of sectors where many young people work. for example, youth unemployment increased from 11.9% in 2019 to 13.3% in 2020. restrictions on social activities have implications for the mental well-being of our young people. one in three said they had difficulty with the covid-19 measures. i am therefore very pleased that 2022 has been renamed the european year of youth. europe is making young people an absolute priority and is investing more than ever in the future of our continent. the youth guarantee has already been extended to support young people up to the age of 29 with a job, a new training course or a traineeship within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving school. at the request of parliament, additional attention will be given to young people with fewer opportunities or mental health problems. i therefore wholeheartedly support the 'alma' project proposed by ursula von der leyen in september to encourage international mobility among disadvantaged young people.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my aim here as rapporteur was to send a strong message to put an end to the transitional regime, which is a source of weaknesses and is increasing the vat gap. i want to thank the fictional reporters for their cooperation. this report was voted by a large majority in the econ committee, showing a united front to propose solutions to questions that have been outstanding for more than four years. this implementation report deals with particularly sensitive issues, which affect member states' policies, the efficiency of the internal market, the digital and environmental transition and the well-being of our citizens. the vat gap in the union has increased from 20% in 2009 to 10% in 2019, but it varies considerably between member states, which is detrimental to the union budget, businesses and european citizens. the first element is compounded by the large differences in standard rates between member states and the multitude of reduced and special rates. this complexity leads to opacity, compliance costs, errors and fraud. it severely limits the coherence and interoperability of the vat system and cost the union some eur 134 billion in 2019. this is why our report proposes several strategic options. we propose first to identify good practices at national level in order to apply them to a reform at european level. we also believe that a thorough examination of reduced and special rates is essential to reduce the cost of compliance and to modernise and rationalise the tax system in the interests of consistency. we also believe that while the pandemic has catalysed the development of digitalisation for all transactions, transparency, accountability and automated reporting still need to be ensured, which are essential for a definitive, simplified and sustainable vat regime. however, the commission must also support our smes in acquiring technology and know-how. in addition, our businesses urgently need the 'taxes in europe' database to be fully operational and to provide fast, up-to-date and accurate access to relevant information on the implementation of the vat system in the member states, in particular on all standard and lower vat rates. finally, we propose to support the climate transition by gradually removing harmful products, but also those that are highly polluting, from the list of derogations from the standard rates. such a phasing-out should include compensatory measures and reduced rates on basic necessities to help low-income households. on 7 december, ecofin ministers approved the long-awaited reform of the vat rate directive. the reform, as requested by parliament, provides for the phasing out of fossil fuels or products harmful to the environment and an acceleration of digitalisation. she doesn't want to leave anyone on the side of the road. it will therefore be up to the member states of the european union to ensure a fair balance between compliance with the standard rates and the derogations allowed, but also to avoid eroding the tax base when using the new reduced vat rates.
president, commissioner, rapporteur, dear véronique, after a year and a half of hard work, listening to experts and a working visit to the world health organization, we have sharpened our knowledge with progressive insight. the result is a comprehensive cancer plan. because the momentum is now. every year, 2.7 million europeans are diagnosed with cancer. here's a partner of a patient who's had cancer four times already. it puts you on an emotional rollercoaster, from the first bad news smoke to the autopilot in the treatments to a future perspective, at best from control to control. our objective was clear: a 360-degree approach that focuses on all stages of the disease and the patient. our proposals go beyond those of the commission, and that is good, that is the task of parliament. we ask for special attention to be paid to adolescents and young adults. they must be recognized as a distinct group. we are advocating a european right to be forgotten, better protection for our workers in the workplace, the joint purchase of medicines. every patient should get the best possible treatment. it can't be that your chances of survival depend on where you were born or what you earn. finally, as the president has already said, it cannot be more symbolic today. today is world childhood cancer day. let them be the benchmark for what we vote on tonight.
the honorable chairwoman. i thank the european parliament's special committee on cancer for the outstanding work and the final report we are voting on today. the vote for the european union is a vote for a common european fight against a disease that affects three million europeans a year at european union level. the vote for the united kingdom is a vote for closer european health union and a vote for more social justice and equality in healthcare, with less disparity in the survival rate of cancer patients still above 25%. i am well aware of the importance of timely diagnosis and the invaluable value of timely and quality treatment of cancer. this saved my life years ago and is why i support and advocate in all areas of my work for timely screening and detection of disease, for equal access for all europeans to the highest quality oncological care and to equally fast and affordable quality medicines. a vote for the resolution is a vote for life.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against cancer is really the subject for which the european union is the right scale and has real added value to offer. because we've all been affected, we've all lost loved ones. so yes, access to better treatment and care for patients, the right to be forgotten or better cross-border cooperation in access to therapies must be priorities. but we must remain moderate, especially when it comes to the use of alcohol. yes, undoubtedly, excessive drinking must be fought; but not to zero. wine and beer are part of the rural way of life and are essential economic sectors, creating jobs in many areas. so let's be ambitious in our fight against disease, but let's do it pragmatically.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. cancer is a terrible disease that affects almost every family in europe. we are 10 per cent of the world's population in europe, but a quarter of all cancers diagnosed worldwide are in europe. i think cancer really needs to be one of our top priorities, but it's also a personal concern of mine that we're sending signals from here in parliament that we're doing everything as politicians that we can to fight cancer. three thoughts on this: first, i believe we need to invest heavily in research on prevention, diagnosis, treatment, follow-up care for the affected and their families. secondly, i think it's very important to invest in patient organisations as well. so what i see in my country is that patient organizations are making a very, very valuable contribution to cancer treatment, and we need to empower them. and third, i think banning certain lifestyles is not the way to go. i believe that a blanket ban on alcohol advertising at sporting events or a conspicuous warning against alcohol is the wrong way to go. we must of course combat alcohol abuse. but it is important that we do education work on the ground, especially with our children and young people, that we do prevention campaigns. i think that role models are much more effective and convincing for young people than we are here to issue bans.
madam president, i would like to thank you. so much brilliance has been said and so much available evidence is available about the fact that we can make a difference for so many people. each year, 120 000 european workers are exposed to dangerous substances and tens of thousands die. it is unacceptable that ordinary people should be put to death because of our inability to make reasonable demands on the employer. we need to ensure routines and raise the level of knowledge around the eu. it's obvious to me. it must not be because of social injustice and because of the inequalities that people in the eu have to put up with in trying to provide for themselves and their families in the hope of creating a better future. we can make great strides in this area and together we will succeed in fighting cancer. so let's all help each other find common solutions in the fight against cancer, so that no one has to die because of going to work.
madam president, please. the fight against cancer is not just for science, it's not just for society, it's not just for politics, it's for all of us. cancer kills more than 1.3 million people a year, including 6,000 children. 3 million new cases are diagnosed, and more than 12 million survivors struggle to return to normal life. it is important that the results of scientific research are communicated to everyone in a comprehensible way. there's a lot of misconceptions, unfounded, inaccurate information in the public consciousness. if we're afraid of beliefs, we won't even participate in our regular self-exams and screenings. therefore, it is very important to take active prevention measures by adopting a healthy lifestyle and regularly attending screening. it can't make a difference in curing cancer. the fight against cancer must be about people and the preservation of human dignity.
madam president, we are faced with a very comprehensive report on the characterization of this serious reality and the elements that the fight against cancer is currently shaping up to be. as in the pandemic situation, the role that national public health services have played and continue to play is essential. we are therefore not following the development of a so-called health union, decentralisation of powers or a privatising of health care. this requires the strengthening of free, high-quality national public health services, increased investment, more staff, more and better equipment, access to treatment and medicines, adequate follow-up at all stages of illness and family members, and the creation of a public care network to this end. the need to strengthen prevention policies and the role of the competent national authorities is apparent. it requires that, without prejudice to increased cooperation between states, each country maintain and develop its own capacities in the production of medicines and medical devices that allow the necessary response to cancer patients without being at the mercy of multinationals or dependent on supranational policies that restrict diversity and response capacity.
madam president, this report, which the special committee of which i am a member can be really pleased with, is a major milestone in the history of european cancer policies. it will help our governments to better strategies in the field of oncology, no doubt. if i had to summarize it, i would choose two concepts: prevention and equality. prevention is always the best health policy and oncology is no exception. to reduce the incidence of cancer in our societies requires transforming the habits and lifestyles as well as the social and environmental conditions of our population. the field we have to cover to achieve this goal is still immense. in this respect, our amendments have focused on the concept of health in all policies and we are pleased that they have been taken into account. the fight against inequalities between countries and regions in cancer treatment must be our undisputed priority as europeans. there are still unbearable differences between our citizens in terms of screening, early detection, overtreatment and therapeutic innovations. in conclusion, i would like to point out that we can understand that the genetic code determines the probability of survival in the face of a cancer diagnosis, but what we cannot accept, in any way, is that this probability depends on the postal code.
madam president, 1.3 million people die of cancer in the eu every year. every nine seconds, a new case of cancer is diagnosed in the eu, meaning that by the time i’ve finished speaking, six people will have been diagnosed. this is already shocking, but studies show that it will only get worse, that by 2035, the number of cases could double and an estimated 40% of the population will face cancer at some point in their lives. covid has showed us that we can and should do more at european level to save lives. we need to invest more in research to utilise new technologies like ai, and to ensure earlier detection and better care, and we need to share best practices. the fight against cancer is not new. we have been pledging to defeat cancer for a long time. i don’t know if we will ever be truly free of it, but i know that, as the european union, we can do more. so let’s do it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i want to start with mep falcă. sharing a personal experience is never easy. but when i heard him share his today, he put this discussion in perspective, and i want to thank him. honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, i want to thank you for your valuable interventions. i really noted as many as i could. i am sure i will leave some behind or out, but not because they were not important. i want to look at the different topics raised. first of all, the importance raised in this report on research. this was raised by meps liese, gamon and pereira, and they’re absolutely correct. and i want to assure you that the horizon mission is already part of our process, and we have recently launched the first calls. many of you mentioned the importance of prevention – meps ripa, fritzon, metz. i just wanted to say here that we know that 40% of all cancers in the eu can be prevented, and this is one of our most important pillars. and mep dorfmann, you are so right: we cannot push it aside. we cannot ignore that cancer is there. we need to work on prevention. meps ries, ştefănuță, ijabs, kopcińska, solís pérez, toia and many others have mentioned the importance of inequalities, the impact of late diagnosis. and this is why we have set up an inequalities register to guide investment and support where we need it most, and we will continue to work in this way. meps ripa, hojsík and niebler talked on healthy lifestyles, on the importance of consumer information. we will be updating the european code against cancer. we need to do more on this. mep mélin, you spoke of the need to have a budget. well we have an unprecedented eur 4 billion available to us that we will be using. there was a mention on tobacco by mep fiocchi, and i just wanted to say here that tobacco is still the single largest avoidable health risk. this is why we approach it in our cancer plan. mep georgiou, you’re absolutely right that we need to take action and that action needs to be together and we need to implement what we do. the right to be forgotten – véronique, i know that this is so close to your heart and to so many others – and mep cerdas, meps clune, toia, franssen have raised this, and we are looking at this in europe’s beating cancer plan and we will be coming forward with a report on this very shortly. mep moretti said, we are bringing an entire process to a conclusion. in one way i would say yes, but hearing this, i was thinking in a different way. you are right at the beginning of opening another one – one of adoption and one of implementation. meps kopacz, metz, glavak and others spoke about the affordability and access to medicines, and this is one of the key objectives of the european commission’s pharmaceutical strategy. and this, i think, is going to be very important in really looking at issues to do with affordability and inequality of access. meps montserrat, ilčić and konečná spoke of the impact of covid-19. we know that an estimated 100 million cases may have not been diagnosed in the last two years, and 100 million cancer screening tests may have been postponed or not carried out. and this has an important impact on patients and their families. and in our plan, we are addressing this. we are looking at how telemedicine can be used and we need to have contingency plans for the future. on alcohol, several meps mentioned this. now, europe has the highest level of alcohol consumption in the world, and alcohol can cause several types of cancer, and that is why we have included a clear target in the commission’s cancer plan to achieve a relative reduction of at least 10% of harmful use of alcohol by 2025, also supported by who. citizens are often not aware of the risks. there is no intention whatsoever to target any gastronomic cultures, and our work will be based on science. many of you mentioned that cancer is a word that brings the thought of someone who died or is now being diagnosed. but i believe that this report and europe’s beating cancer plan is also a plan and a report that can make this a work of hope. i hope that we can do something. let’s not demonise cancer, let’s do something about it. meps georgoulis, pavlova and sokol, you have spoken of the importance of this report and the level of ambition, and we share this with you. mep fourlas and mep vautmans spoke of paediatric cancers and said that tomorrow, once this report is voted, it will be a great day. but even more important is its implementation, and we will be partners in this as a commission, as we have a strong commitment to change the realities of cancer and, as mep rafalska also said, to also looking at how we can reduce risks in the workplace. and last but not least, rare cancers and paediatric cancers raised by many of you: children have the right to the best possible diagnosis and treatment. the european reference networks – our comprehensive cancer networks – are evidence that we’re giving a priority to this and to paediatric cancers. so in ending, honourable ladies and gentlemen, i want to congratulate you. i want to congratulate you on the important work of this report. i want to congratulate you, on behalf of the commission, on the support of our europe’s beating cancer plan. we are putting in place the necessary building blocks to ensure that this plan is implemented effectively. we have an implementation roadmap to which we are accountable so that we are able to have real delivery and tangible results. but your constructive and ambitious report is really such an important contribution to this effort, and i can assure you it will guide and inform our work. we will continue to work closely with you in order to be implementing this plan, and i am truly convinced that, when we work together, as we have shown on so many areas that we can, we can achieve our goals – goals that we need to do for citizens, for patients, for their families, for their support network and their colleagues, for our health systems and for our societies.
i thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have spoken. the debate is closed. the voting on the amendments will take place today, tuesday, february 15, 2022, and the final vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, february 16, 2022. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the cancer report is a very thorough strategy document, preceded by a huge amount of analysis. it describes the effects of air pollution, alcohol, tobacco, radon and other components on cancer, as well as the deadly effect of covid-19 on cancer. tobacco products are considered the biggest cause of preventable cancer and therefore i support the target to reduce tobacco consumption from the current twenty-five per cent to five per cent by 2040 in the fight against cancer. an honest analysis will help to reduce the number of cancer deaths in europe.
in writing. the proposed text contains important ideas in the fight against cancer. one sentence particularly struck me: strengthening public health services, both in terms of funding, infrastructure and health professionals, the report says, is essential to improve cancer prevention, screening and detection. i did! but in so doing the report rejects the whole policy of austerity pursued by the commission and the european governments. austerity has brought health care systems to their knees. how can effective prevention campaigns be carried out with a public apnea system? how can you get an early diagnosis when you're faced with endless waiting lists? or what about the delay in care during the covid-19 pandemic because our hospitals were underfunded and understaffed? under-investment, lack of infrastructure, unbearable working conditions for workers and prohibitive cost for the patient... the effective fight against cancer requires a break with european policies. we need massive investment in public health care systems. making the fight against cancer a priority means breaking with the commodification and commercialization of health.
president, 60 years, 60 years of development aid shows that it doesn't work, except for those who really don't want to see it. i was ten years old when the french came to my village school in burkina faso. they gave us pencils and books, but we already had them. "because we were poor", they said, "they came to help us". after class, i ran home sobbing. dad, we're poor, did you know that? "don't worry, child", he said. it's okay to be poor. i knew we weren't rich, of course, but i never thought we'd be so helpless. i felt like i was suddenly deprived of my wings. as a teenager, i saw european leaders in the spotlight in africa announcing huge checks. we wondered where all that money would go, what would change for us except that africa would go deeper into debt. the last check i saw on tv was from president chirac. when i see commission president von der leyen in dakar now, more than 20 years later, waving a cheque, i have a feeling of déjà vu. more pens and pencils. the nanny diplomacy is alive. this breaks my heart and makes me furious as a legislator. that signature, the gesture, the eternal lie, a hug that chokes. please stop the nanny diplomacy in africa! that must be the mandate of the eu-africa summit. save the european citizen the money and the african youth the humiliation. in burkina faso, i see no development, but i do see a russian flag flying and jihadists triumphing. what did chirac's check bring in? he made people lazy. i ask macron and call on him to leave his checkbook at home on thursday!
madam president, mr borrell, you are a bit of a european foreign minister, but you have taken a few blows in africa, let us say. the european union went to the african union to propose an alliance, but the africans thought it was a bit excessive. they didn't want it. why would you do that? but because they have seen that, rather than seeking mutually beneficial cooperation, you want to perpetuate the grip of european multinationals on africa. so when researchers in south africa are trying to develop an african vaccine, you deny them access to the technology. worse, you're even making a buddy-buddy partnership with the kenup foundation, which is sabotaging their efforts. all this to protect the profits of european monopolies at the expense of the health of africans. you yourself say on twitter - i brought the tweet - that you want a european approach to health in the service of european geopolitical priorities and strategic interests. multinationals first, not africans. the money, not africa. so, mr. borrell, enough of this imperialism. share the technology and lift those patents.
mr. chairman of the board! russia's behaviour towards ukraine has once again confirmed the need for full security cooperation between democratic countries. this concerns both the structure and functioning of the eu's common security and defence policy, and the eu's smooth and non-rivalry cooperation with nato, including the us, and with other democratic countries outside the eu and nato. only then can the international ambitions of the great authoritarian regimes to determine the present and future of other countries be curbed. russia's goal is to make ukraine its sphere of influence. that ukraine would stop moving in the direction of the european union and nato. ukraine has so far withstood the conditions of great pressure and now the democratic western countries themselves must not make it more difficult for ukraine. this means, among other things, that we must stand with the ukrainians in times of crisis. and it's about the real presence of democratic states in ukraine right now. the diplomatic missions there should not be closed, but rather new ones should be opened. thank you!
mr president, my colleagues want to impose universal human rights everywhere in order to make the world safer, but they do not realize that these are not rights, and certainly not universal rights. after all, they are not enforceable outside the western world, which means that they are not rights, and most countries do not even think about applying them, which means that they are not universal. it is highly unlikely that islamic regimes will renounce the cairo declaration on human rights in islam, in which 50 islamic countries agreed in 1990 that sharia is above international rules. communist dictatorships, such as china or north korea, are equally unlikely to respond to such pleas. the eu can better deal with realpolitik rather than moralpolitik based on left-liberal illusions and utopian moral ambitions.
the single market is the main source of prosperity in the eu. the lack of access to the single market would reduce my country's gross national product by as much as 18%. the report rightly calls for the completion of the single market. recent studies have shown that this would increase our combined national product by nine percent. so the profits are there. unfortunately, protectionism is on the rise and more and more retailers are selling only products from their own country. this forces companies to relocate their production and undermines confidence in the european union. these obstacles in fact are therefore rightly mentioned in the report. i therefore call on the commission once again to take a strong stand against this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, as we discuss the ukraine-russia issue today, i think it would also be helpful to recall the year 2003, when president bush, then secretary of state powell and then british prime minister blair lied to the world public and led the world into the iraq war. let's also remember the year 2014 after the maidan, when ukraine was reorganized and the son of the then us vice president biden, namely hunter biden, was elevated to the supervisory board of burisma, one of the largest ukrainian energy companies, and the american woman jaresko, i believe, was expatriated in the express procedure and on the evening of the same day she was ukrainian and became minister of finance. it is always a matter of business interests, and here too the current conflict has the smell of vested business interests in my view. i would also like to point out that as an austrian i come from a country which is committed to neutrality, and i like russians as much as americans, and i have only one goal in mind here: to secure peace in europe in the long term. but i do not think that if we europeans become a plaything between american and russian interests here, that is really beneficial for the european continent and this union and this european community. in my view, it would be helpful to resolve this conflict without the involvement of the americans, who have certainly provoked one administration after another, and i am speaking to the two administrations, when it was clear that nato's eastward enlargement was not taking place in this form, and nato was nevertheless expanded from 15 to almost 30 member states. i propose a tripolar conference between the europeans, the russians and the ukrainians to secure lasting peace here and to stop making us the plaything of geopolitical financial interests.
mr president, putin’s russia supporting ethnic cleansing, then self-determination, using hybrid war, political corruption and energy blackmail against the west, killing opponents on our territories. the aggressor, always pre-empting non-existent strikes in its propaganda. we have to stay united and firm. i stand by ukraine. they know it. i stand by the people of belarus and free georgian society. the european parliament should reiterate its long-standing position on nord stream 2: to halt it immediately. not in case – immediately, because it is a very bad project, and the message sent at this dangerous time to russia may be very bad, with dilution of our position.
(start of the microphone speech) ... de-escalation is needed in ukraine and as always in diplomacy this means that we have to negotiate with particularly unpleasant people, like vladimir putin. but charles michel has just called for the mobilization of hundreds of millions to integrate ukraine into the western or european sphere of influence. he had support from the nationalist right all the way to the greens. the greens have clearly forgotten that they were once part of the peace movement. but just imagine what would happen if china or russia were to mobilize hundreds of millions, billions to bring mexico into their sphere of influence. how would the united states respond? think about that for a second. europe understood that at the time. until recently, we realized that the neutrality of austria or finland was important. today you forgot those lessons. you want to integrate ukraine into nato, and that leads to conflict. i want to negotiate. stop this expansion of nato. negotiate and create a common architecture for peace in europe.
the institutions of the european union are increasingly appropriating powers which no one has ever given them and for which they are accountable to no one. the european commission was originally set up as a body of officials to carry out what the member states agree, but it is increasingly behaving as a kind of european government that wants to dictate policy in the member states. citizens are especially wondering who these people are who have not been elected by anyone. technocracy is the opposite of democracy. the european court of justice was originally set up to review the application of the european treaties. by a broad and activist interpretation of the treaties, the court places itself above the constitutions of the member states in areas where it does not even have jurisdiction. it gives itself the power to assess the internal organisation of member states, to make policy choices and even to rewrite laws against which there is no appeal. the european parliament has also been asked to give its opinion on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000. jurisdiction is the opposite of democracy. the commission and the court then work together to deprive member states who do not want to bow to their liberal sharia law of the right to vote and to blackmail them financially by withholding billions from the corona recovery fund. it's now clear that this was never about corona, but about power and control. this seizure of power is then sold as a defence of the democratic rule of law. it really can't get any more hypocritical than this. the rule of law can only be democratic if it respects the sovereignty of the people, and thus democracy. the organization and political choices of states should not be determined by the judges and officials of the european union, but by the nation states themselves. they are democratically legitimized by their people. the european union is not. the european union is completely losing its way and is turning into something we never signed up for. the british have drawn their conclusions and are the first to leave. if we continue in this way, however, they will certainly not be the last.
mr president, i would like to thank you. climate policy must have a gender perspective. an effective climate policy in sweden, in the eu, globally should require women to be at the negotiating table. women's influence on the policy and technical solutions to be prioritised. if we take a gender perspective, we also see very clearly how climate is linked to a justice perspective. we are seeing in concrete terms how we are creating societies that are resilient and sustainable, both socially and ecologically. on the left, we have a program that puts these pieces together. we see the need to protect nature and adopt ambitious climate targets. we see that we have to reset our production, our industry, if we're serious about actually dealing with the climate. we see the need to invest in care, in welfare, in what holds society together, where women are also the majority of those who work. we see that we need to allocate resources in a way that is much more equitable, and where those who pollute the most have to contribute more to the transition. it is, my friends, a feminist, red and green climate change.
mr. chairman, please! gender equality is one of the fundamental values of the european union. i think it's safe to say that we're a leader in promoting this idea, which is to make sure that we're working for security, peace, economic growth, environmental improvement. there is no doubt that there are links between gender and climate change and environmental challenges. all the research and data shows that it is mainly women and children who are the victims of conflict, climate change and disputes over natural resources. on the other hand, the full and equal participation of women in political and financial decision-making, including those related to sustainable development and the fight against climate change, has a significant impact on the positive effects of the actions undertaken. and while women are increasingly influencing economic change, entrenched social attitudes are significantly slowing it down. in many places, women's rights are being challenged, access to the labor market, education, health care is being restricted. violence against women is common, including sexual violence, which has been further exacerbated by the covid pandemic. but i hope that the strategies and programs that are being implemented, i hope that the attitudes of the younger generation, i hope that the activism of many ngos, which i would like to thank from this place, and i hope that the responsibility of wise politicians will raise social awareness and contribute to solving the problem of inequality and support positive change and transformation.
mr president, dear commissioner dalli, dear secretary of state, climate emergency is our reality, as well as gender inequality and both are intrinsically linked. but so is the solution. when we take gender—responsive climate action, we further close gender inequalities. when we have more women in decision—making, we have better, more effective decisions also on climate mitigation and when we empower women, especially in indigenous communities, we protect mother nature. so yet, let us not forget europe claims to be a leader in both fields. but we still are far from reaching equality and climate neutrality. the upcoming un session on the status of women in march is the place where we can show the commitment, but also take the necessary action.
the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. it is a matter for our society, it is a matter for culture, but it is first and foremost a matter for the european union itself. the founding declaration of the european union, which is the 'constitution' of the european union, stated that without any concessions, delays or shortcomings, the european union was to implement gender equality. i am a proud european because i regard the european union as the best, the greatest, the strongest, the most important achievement of mankind. however, the failure to achieve this objective, laid down in the treaties of the european union, is the great gap, not of the sexes, but of the declarations of the european union with the acts. it is not possible for european citizens to have waited 65 years for gender equality to be implemented, as required by the treaty of rome of 25 march 1957, and to have only made beautiful declarations, speeches and appeals, while gender equality has not been achieved. the numbers are staggering. what we expect here in the european parliament, and what 500 million citizens expect, is that the european commission and the european council come to the next meeting and tell us that gender equality has been achieved, or at least that the european commission and the european council commit themselves to sanctions against those member states which do not implement gender equality. but when even the european institutions, bodies and agencies of the european union themselves do not implement gender equality, how can we expect it to be implemented in all the countries of the european union? i am putting my proposal forward and i expect you, commissioner, to implement it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is a tendency to paint feminism as redundant and outdated. i am convinced that the feminist struggles need our strength now more than ever. the paramount challenge today is climate change, a threat hanging over our heads, but especially over the heads of women. many countries structured according to patriarchal patterns trap women in marginal roles, such as managing increasingly arid lands or supplying increasingly scarce resources. the major international summits must develop concrete proposals and strategies to support women in the face of climate change, so that they are not forced to migrate, facing violence, exploitation, denied access to rights and health services, including sexual and reproductive health. we need to give girls opportunities to study in stem subjects, which are the future of climate change management. being a feminist today, ladies and gentlemen, is important because it means fighting for a fairer, freer, more civilised and safer world for half the world's population.
member of the commission. – mr president, the priorities which honourable members underline are indeed key to address the issues at stake. women and girls must be agents of change and drivers of sustainable solutions when it comes to climate change, environmental degradation and disasters. together, we will continue to push for a human rights based and gender responsive approach towards climate change based on the actions laid down in the european green deal. together, we will ensure strong outreach to build allies and truly use our leverage. civil society organisations, including women’s organisations, human rights defenders and youth organisations, have been of crucial importance in defining our policies. i am looking forward to continuing the cooperation during the commission on the status of women. let us build a world of equality where more women and more girls can speak up and act as role models as part of a positive contribution towards fighting climate change.
president of the council. mr president, commissioner, you have summed up the issues and the debate perfectly. we have european values to bring to this united nations commission. i recalled the work that had been started and carried out in the council in january to define five priority areas which i believe are broadly reflected in most of the speeches made this afternoon and which we will have to continue. the european union is only credible at international level if it upholds its values, in particular gender equality, within its own geographical, historical and cultural boundaries. we can do more. the french presidency, as i have said, has made these legislative texts on gender equality a top priority. we will work on it and i am of course prepared to report back to your assembly as often as possible. this credibility within our borders is essential if we are to be able to effectively convey these messages beyond our borders and internationally. i thank you for your commitment, mr president, ladies and gentlemen.
this debate is closed. before i address the next item on the agenda, allow me, with your permission, to say a few words. this is the first sitting i've ever chaired here in the plenary. it's a great honor. thanks for your support! and it is indeed an honour not only for me as a member of parliament, but also for the first time here in the european parliament, to preside over a sitting in latvian, which is the official language of my people, of my country. since this is a very important day, i also think not so much of the great people, but of course of the very respectable people in the european parliament, in the country. and let me do the best and most efficient way to manage the seats. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. the 66th session of the un commission on the status of women provides an opportunity for global discussion to identify challenges and formulate commitments to be implemented in promoting gender equality and women's empowerment in the context of climate change and environmental disasters. these phenomena are a constant threat to the peoples of the planet and have a disproportionate impact on women, in particular those in situations of vulnerability and marginalization, through inequalities in access to essential resources and services, poverty, conflict, violence, discrimination and migration. actions towards climate neutrality and fossil energy independence will need to take into account specific gender needs, so that the opportunities emerging in the green transition are equally beneficial and accessible. a renewed commitment to the fight to remove the structural and cultural barriers that generate unequal participation of women in decision-making, labour markets and pay gaps will provide equal opportunities to contribute to a sustainable and inclusive economy, and to the prosperity and well-being of societies.
according to un figures, an average of 21.5 million people have been displaced annually since 2010 as a result of natural disasters arising from climate change. as many as 80% of the displaced are women and girls. it is urgent that this issue be brought to the attention of the annual session of the un commission on the status of women. climate change is affecting women proportionately more. in addition, women are still underrepresented in national decision-making bodies on climate change, and represent only 32% of the renewable energy workforce worldwide. it is high time we came up with gender-responsive measures to address displacement, poverty, human trafficking, gender-related violence and food insecurity. this is why we need to focus more than ever on gender-targeted initiatives such as gender mainstreaming in the european green deal. finally, we need to make extra efforts to ensure that women play a more prominent role in climate policy.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, i would like to ask for a 20-second extension. i need you as a member of a family of fishermen to remember, in the heart of the union, the victims of the sinking of the pitanxo village. my solidarity with the pain of their families, my brotherly embrace for those who have lost everything, and my vindication of a sector and people who deserve empathy, understanding and support, which is also felt and understood when, against all odds, you have waited for your loved ones on a pier. may they rest in peace. the report we are adopting today is key to stimulating the decarbonisation of transport and to harmonising the tasks that the member states of the union have been carrying out in their road charging systems. those differences threaten the normal functioning of the single transport market. we therefore replaced incomplete, unsatisfactory and more unfair regulation. to oppose this advance is to support what was. we all agree that whoever pollutes and whoever uses, pays. the tariff is better adjusted by replacing time by distance, also lowering costs for cleaner vehicles and incorporating a congestion charge. the scope has been extended to include lorries, light transport vehicles and buses. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to include cars, for which there will be short-term vignettes, including a one-day vignette for vehicles in transit. the standard is also expected to be revised if transport is included in a future carbon pricing mechanism. but the users, the payers, deserve in return that the money they contribute funds transport support programs, sustainable transport, from incentives to renew the fleet, to investments in infrastructure. because better roads, digitisation and intelligent traffic management are vital for safety, to avoid congestion and to achieve the emission reduction targets we have set ourselves. the credibility and fairness of this system requires this exercise of pedagogy and justice.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, we are discussing again a matter which is related to a new regulation. regulation which should create new conditions and new pressures for people working for small and mediumsized businesses. again, all of you here, especially the 10 people in the room, as you can see, we want to make new regulations and make these people spend more money. this is not right. we're in the group where we think there should be less regulation, and we think we should let people work, make money. we think that's much better. we think it's much more fair.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the european union may well try to paint its policies green and claim marked reductions in environmental impacts. it cannot hide the set of interests that serve the processes of liberalization of sectors at the expense of the interests of peoples, of labour and of workers' rights, compromising the provision of services, development and the territorial, social and economic cohesion of states. it is the large economic and financial groups which, by determining and benefiting from these policies, rub their hands with the prospects of profit far removed from any concern for the environment. the so-called eurovignette directive, which we are discussing here, is a modest example of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road transport sector is not subject to the same tax burden as other sectors. the impact of road transport on greenhouse gas emissions is undeniable. however, what this directive proposes is to contribute to the expansion of road network charges, putting a burden on the general public, who often have no alternative, either for the transport of goods or for their mobility options. the proposal directly interferes with a national competence: taxation policy, by transferring revenues from the states to the concessionaires of the road networks. it also incorporates an unacceptable dimension subject to the perverse system of emissions trading. this legislation will impose increases in fares and travel, penalising those who have no options in the face of poor public transport or freight supply. development, cohesion and mobility are affected. you don't do what's necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately there are some flaws in this text. some member states today - particularly belgium - have the unfortunate idea - fortunately not yet implemented - of introducing a mileage tax on private cars, which would obviously have important consequences for the employment of people living in rural areas. the text will not prevent this kind of bad thinking. secondly, the revenue earmarked for this additional burden is not automatically and necessarily directed towards investments in new infrastructure, multimodal transport and relief for certain regions. there is no obligation in this respect in what is presented and proposed in this text. various amendments are attempting to improve the situation. i hope, of course, that these amendments will be supported, particularly in order to provide solutions for the allocation of revenue and to give this impetus to multimodal transport, particularly rail transport, and also to relieve certain regions, simply by the reality they are experiencing today. for these reasons, at this stage - and it will obviously depend on the development of the debate - it is not possible, at least for me, to support this text as it stands. i hope that various amendments will be adopted to improve it in the sense i have just indicated.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the next item is the report by mrs stefania zambelli, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2004/37/ec on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work (com ((2020) 0571 c9-0301/2020 2020/0262 cod)) (a9-0114/2021).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, fighting against cancer is one of the key priorities of the commission and, i know very strongly, of your parliament. it has to be a priority because today 52% of annual occupational deaths in the eu can be attributed to work—related cancers. these figures show the importance of the file we are discussing today. improving workers’ health and safety in the context of rapidly changing economic, technological and work patterns. this fourth update of the carcinogens and mutagens directive revises the limit values for three key carcinogens widely used in the eu, and we estimate that it will improve the protection of more than one million workers in the eu. and i’m very pleased to see that both the european parliament and the council supported these limit values throughout the discussions. but we also went much further in this update, and i thank the parliament and particularly the rapporteur, and i wish you all well, having listened to your personal experience, as well as the former president of the committee on employment and social affairs for the very ambitious approach of the parliament. firstly, the co—legislators agreed to include the reprotoxic substances in the scope of the directive. we will now be working further on putting in motion this amendment. another substantial point of discussion was the protection of workers, including nurses, from the exposure to hazardous medicinal products. we all agree that as soon as these medicinal products have carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic properties, they fall within the scope of the carcinogens and mutagens directive. however – and i must say, i appreciate that very much – your negotiators in the trilogue strongly defended the need to ensure a higher degree of clarity on this specific aspect, and for that reason, both the co—legislators and the commission agreed on making statements to clarify this. the provisional agreement includes reinforced training measures and, among other elements, the publication of guidelines, and i am strongly committed to publish these guidelines by the end of this year. we have to better protect those who every day take care of those patients who need these treatments. but we know now better than ever, the crucial role of health workers – and it has been mentioned by the rapporteur – who every day take risks to bring health to those who suffer from cancer, and it is not acceptable that they have to take these risks. so, these guidelines will be clear and they have not just to be there, they have to be implemented and their implementation also has to be controlled. the third substantial point in this discussion, was the introduction of a new methodology for setting limit values at the eu level, a so—called risk—based methodology. on this issue, we all realised that we will still need time to assess the relevance of such an approach, and we will continue our work on this topic. this provisional agreement also provides that the commission reviews the limit value for respirable crystalline silica and adopts an action plan this year for proposing, where appropriate, new or updates of limit values for an additional 25 substances. and as i mentioned already, this is already the fourth revision of the carcinogens and mutagens directive, and since 2016, the commission has submitted proposals to address 30 chemicals. in addition, as announced in the new eu strategic framework on health and safety at work, we have already planned the fifth revision addressing five additional chemicals and therefore such an action plan is fully in line with the commission’s desire to constantly improve the protection of workers against occupational cancer. mr president, honourable members, before concluding, i would like to highlight the key and constructive role again played by both the european parliament and the council because this proposal was adopted and approved at the council level by unanimity, which shows that everybody now is aware of the importance of what we are doing here. the provisional agreement we have before us today is ambitious and it is another significant step forward in improving the health of eu workers. and it shows also that europe cares about the health of its citizens and workers. and, therefore, i am confident that you, members of the european parliament, will largely support this text so that it will turn into practical measures on the ground very quickly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cancer, whether of occupational origin or not, is the second leading cause of death in the european union, after cardiovascular disease. they are responsible for about a quarter of the total number of deaths. they also put national health and social care systems, public budgets, productivity and economic growth to the test. for all these reasons, the fight against cancer must be strengthened. there is a political consensus to support this objective. it is in this context that we are today undertaking to improve the protection of workers against the risks associated with exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work. cancer is responsible for 52% of all occupational deaths each year, and that is far too many. to achieve this improvement, it is necessary to amend directive 2004/37/ec, which is the basic text for the protection of workers against cancer. the committee on legal affairs voted 15 amendments to add to the list. one of the main ones recommends, for the sake of transparency, that medical prescriptions should only be drawn up after consultation with the economic and social actors concerned. another suggests that national and european stimulus plans should be used to finance research programmes on the health risks to workers. a third pointed to the particular case of workers exposed to a cocktail of dangerous substances, which would require a downward revision of the limit values to take account of the combined effects of these products. a fourth point is that cobalt is carcinogenic and should therefore be subject to specific limit values. other amendments specify deadlines, including a deadline of at least every five years for reviewing limit values. i shall conclude with two more general considerations. the committee on legal affairs would draw your attention in particular to the fact that smes and microenterprises have limited financial, technical and human resources. care must therefore be taken that the application of the directive does not have disproportionate consequences for them. the committee would also like to point out that the directive does not prevent member states from providing for even more protective provisions if they so wish. in conclusion, the fight against cancer is a major european cause, to which the committee on legal affairs is happy to contribute.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party. we approved yesterday the european plan for the fight against cancer and today we are voting on the fourth revision of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens or mutagens at work. almost a year and a half after the european commission's proposal for a directive, the european parliament can present a fantastic result. this review is a real milestone in the fight against cancer due to occupational exposure to dangerous substances. the directive already included limit values for occupational exposure to 30 carcinogens and mutagens and is now being extended to include substances harmful to reproduction and dangerous medicinal products. the european parliament has been working hard to achieve this since the first revision of the directive. but our work is not over. in the european union, 80 000 workers still die of cancer every year as a result of occupational exposure to the substances mentioned above. this must be stopped by 2022. the fourth revision of the directive should therefore be followed up by the commission as soon as possible with an action plan to address the next 25 substances on the list of dangerous carcinogens, mutagens and reproductive toxicants. to achieve this, both the recommendations of the report of the special committee on cancer, on which we voted yesterday, and those of the report on the protection of workers from asbestos, which was put to the vote in october 2021, need to be transposed into legislation. only in this way can we ensure that workers no longer die of cancer simply because they are doing their jobs. i therefore expect that this report will receive a great deal of support.
author. – madam president, ne y beoogo, this is good morning in burkina language. just to greet these people who are suffering so much. if africa does not succeed, i can tell you one thing, europe will fail, said president macron. i welcome this statement, but i regret that europe is 60 years late and is now still sleepwalking. europe is a true zombie in africa. why don’t we believe reality when we see it? dear colleagues, we must not only stop paternalism, we must also believe reality when we see it. we were wrong yesterday to ignore it when it started in syria, and we are wrong today to deny it when it keeps spreading in the sahel. radical islam, it’s a poison that eats a society faster than we take time denying it. but it has nothing to do with islam – some people keep saying until it becomes too late. but i’m telling you civilisations do not collapse all at once, but gradually lose their building blocks and pillars until eventually an empty shell remains. today, burkina faso is even less than its own empty shell. because of radical islam, because of western debt aid money that feeds corruption, because of global eyes shut while islamism progresses everywhere, because of the western weakness towards china and russia, because of paternalism like we still see today and tomorrow in the eu-africa summit. all children should be able to play together beyond religious boundaries and know the warmth of a safe home, not the ordeal of a displaced life. families should share meals over various religious celebrations, not fight over a vicious religious divide. women and girls are persons, not objects. businesses must have room to grow and give young people perspectives. but today, the peaceful, joyful, secular burkina faso i have known as a child does no longer exist. the international community failed to anticipate. but as lawmakers, we do not have the right to be surprised, we should always anticipate. the first thing we must do now is to finally open our eyes because if the sahel is defeated, it is us too who are defeated.
for the greens/efa group mr president, european passports and visas for sale... for a majority of exiles, the dream of joining the european union ends at our borders. for a minority of ultra-rich, however, a snap of the fingers, accompanied by a handsome sum of money, is enough to obtain the european grail. a promise of investment in exchange for a golden passport that allows you to travel freely, open a bank account, vote, do business, even launder your money and exert your influence. rights granted with impunity to russian oligarchs, loyal servants and financiers of the putin regime. their european passport or visa must be withdrawn immediately. but the golden passport and visa system itself carries inherent risks of tax evasion, corruption, money laundering, dirty money invested in european economies. eight years ago, this parliament was already calling for the ban on golden passports, which would have closed the door to russian interference. today, the reality of war is catching up with us, pointing to the urgency of what the european commission and the member states have lacked so far: a real political will to, among other things, abolish the golden passport system within three years, regulate golden visas to make them unattractive, strictly regulate the commercial intermediaries who profit from this system. the time when the european union served oligarchs and other corrupt undesirables is over. keep moving! european citizenship is not for sale.
president, commissioners, this is the european parliament and i am speaking here today as a fleming and as a european. like someone who wasn't always free. as someone who knows the value of citizenship and the power of protection it brings to each of us. but i'm not forgetting the responsibility that comes with it, and i'm embracing it. to become flemish and european, i learned the language, i integrated myself, i promised in my heart that this country is mine and i am of the country. those are my values that i will always carry and help protect. isn't that what we call integration and citizenship? i also know how easily a civilization can be broken. she's gradually becoming empty, from within, by a treacherous lack of respect and attachment to her soul, to courage, to dignity. we must act to protect our way of life. europe must re-arm its identity against corruption, but also against islamism and the culture of cancellation. corruption and ideologies like that are destroying us. they are regressions that shrink people and our nations. they threaten our security and our sense of pride. citizenship is not for sale, but it's not free either. if elon musk wants to be a fleming today, he's welcome. putin is not.
in belgium, 17 trade unionists were recently convicted of 'malicious obstruction of traffic'. the chairman of the general central antwerp-waasland and abvv antwerp was also convicted on the basis of article 406 of the belgian penal code. that article is almost two centuries old and would never be applied to trade union action. that promise was repeated in 1961. today, it seems that more and more is forgotten. not just in belgium. is every social action going to be a crime? our democratic rights were enforced through social action. think of the general right to vote. or social security. forced by the working class, who took to the streets, staged strikes, blockades and marches. today, too, effective action - and it is to such actions that we owe our social achievements - is not without the right to blockade. unjustified restrictions on social action may affect every citizen. think of a parent organization holding an awareness event at an unsafe intersection. can he be sentenced later? these convictions set worrying precedents in the heart of europe. that is unacceptable. this parliament and the european commission should take a full stand on the side of trade unions and the right to social action.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the report by mrs salima yenbou. the report on racism, which is another one, seems to be aimed at maintaining a guilt complex among europeans. the left-liberal elite hopes to continue to swallow mass immigration, while europe is the least racist continent in the world. we're letting tens of millions of immigrants in here. and tell me, where else does that happen? in china? in japan? in pakistan? nowhere is there such tolerance as here. but much is not enough: we must renounce our identity, accept the inter-population, finally integrate into a globalized world without borders, and also give millions more foreigners the right to vote so that they can influence our policies ... seventy paragraphs long, it is claimed that the poor foreigners are often victims of intimidation, victims of physical violence, physical violence by the police, and so on. and after reading such a report, one ends up asking why millions of non-european foreigners still want to come here. it is also good to know that this report by the extreme left was approved by christian democrats and liberals in this parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, has anyone recently looked into their mother’s eyes? when i look into my mother’s eyes, i see the scars and our failure to protect women. when i look in my daughter’s eyes, i see the promise we must keep for the future, as lawmakers. as lawmakers, we do have the power to change things, to build a world where all women are free. i’m honoured to be standing here today on international women’s day, but i wish this day was no longer necessary. as i stand here, i think of the women we know and those we do not know. i think of us and the power we have to drive change. we must consolidate the rights that we have acquired and build more, because equality is unfinished business, because freedom is in danger. the ukrainian women who hastily had to kiss their husbands goodbye and walk away, alone and torn apart, know this. this war is a shame and a failure for the west. they have so much courage. when i listened to you today, ms zabuzhko, i didn’t know what to say anymore. to be honest, i could have walked over here and just given you a hug because sometimes words are not enough. but this would not be appropriate and would also not help you for anything today. so what i want to say is, know that we see and hear you. thank you for coming and speaking to us. your courage and your authenticity remind us of what we are fighting for. we must fight for people like you, but we must also fight for all other women, women of today and women of tomorrow, destroyed by war against their country or by war against their person. this year, several women were killed also in europe. everywhere women have to fight to survive. in february, madeleine, 44 years old, was trying to escape her ex-partner in belgium, who was strangling her. eventually, he killed her son, who was trying to protect her. this is not a single story. but together we are stronger.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, faced with the arrival at our borders of hundreds of thousands of ukrainian refugees, mostly women and children, who were not even given the opportunity to escape through humanitarian corridors from their land, which was tormented by russian artillery, europe did not turn its back, as it has done too many times, but showed its true face, its face of solidarity, and put into practice the values which the treaties have put at the basis of our being together. in short, we can say that the response to the ukrainian refugees has finally been european, as we have been asking for some time and as has not been the case in the face of other migratory crises of our time, i am thinking in particular of the mediterranean, from which refugees of the b category do not arrive simply because they have a different colour of skin from ours. the first activation of the directive on temporary protection for refugees and all the actions that the commission is taking ensure solidarity and humanitarian aid to the ukrainian people and solidarity between the union states that need assistance and help. solidarity and unity: the best response we could give to putin, who was convinced that he could use the migration crisis as a threat to the integrity of european cohesion; we are not responding to brutality with humanity. we must now add to the consistent efforts of the institutions to coordinate and facilitate the entry at european borders of the continuing flow of refugees and to welcome women and children throughout europe. all this while we must continue to condemn this aggression against a sovereign and free people and call for an immediate ceasefire, so that this massacre of defenceless civilians in europe will cease. a europe which wants to remain a place of peace.
president, ladies and gentlemen, we can only condemn the russian aggression in the strongest terms, but the ukrainians have little to say at the moment. action must follow! my party's motto is: our people first. that doesn't mean: only our people. we have always defended the right of asylum for genuine war refugees and fought against the abuse of asylum as a channel for unwanted mass migration. of course, we cannot solve the problems of the whole world. that is why we are calling for a shelter in our own region. well, ukraine is our own region. here we must fulfil our humanitarian mission to the fullest. millions of genuine war refugees, women, children and the vulnerable are on the run. hungary is now taking in 200 000 people, poland is taking in 1 million. just as both countries recently protected us from the illegal invasion of single young men from mainly african and arab countries, they are now opening their hearts and their borders and offering shelter to genuine war refugees. we don't know how many millions of people we have to take in, and we don't know how long we'll have to take them in. we know that the neighbouring countries cannot do this alone. all european countries have a fundamental humanitarian mission in this tragedy. we must also use all our diplomatic energy to stop the senseless bloodshed in ukraine as soon as possible. every dead one is one too many. always someone's father, always someone's child. the longer this war lasts, the more losers there will be, because this war may also cause a global food crisis, collective impoverishment and uncontrollable hyperinflation in the long run, apart from the potentially uncontrollable consequences of further military escalation. this is no time for partisan politics. i hope that everyone will not take lightly their historic responsibility to neutralise this conflict.
mr president, almost two weeks have passed since the russian invasion of ukraine and already two million people are on the roads of exile, fleeing an attack that is more deadly and more unjust every day. two million, and more to come. so many lives and childhoods broken, separated by war, resistance unabated. in the face of this tragedy, europe is activating temporary protection for ukrainian refugees. this is a normal and welcome decision after so many years of solidarity with the exiles, which rested solely on the shoulders of citizens and associations, without any real support from the public authorities. this protection must now apply to anyone fleeing ukraine. it must also be accompanied by human and financial resources to ensure that these people are given a dignified welcome and protection in the member states. the awakening of consciences touches the very heart of our humanity. the spirit of solidarity and generosity that is sweeping us must make us aware that everyone who flees his country must find refuge in europe, at all times, without distinction or discrimination. fortress europe must fall. long live the europe of welcome!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so, how far away some people are from the people out there, i think you can see that in some of the messages i've heard today. i am not by nature a pessimist. i just don't feel like it. but what we're seeing here in the context of this price movement, what's happening in the energy market, is deep black clouds moving towards europe. the first concerns energy prices, which are now going through the roof. this is true of many other commodity prices, such as agricultural products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would even argue that these costs go right to the very foundation of human existence. there are many other reasons why this is the case, besides putin's war of aggression, such as the chaotic policies of the green deal. of course, emissions trading also contributes to the rise in energy and gas prices. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. and that, of course, is subject to speculation. this proves once again to me - and i think to us too - that the member states are better able to take control of their own energy supply and to guarantee it themselves. the commission is actually taking a different direction every year: in 2019 it is calling for the end of coal and gas power, and in 2021 we will see a sharpening of this. what's the plan? today, the focus is back on coal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the other, more important side is the people and their relief from this wave of inflation now. and this is urgently needed: the immediate suspension of the price of co2, the immediate reduction of taxes on gas and fuel. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
mr president, gas prices are now 20 times higher than they were a year ago. some families risk paying up to eight thousand euros a year for electricity and gas. of course, the war makes all that worse. so we must block prices now, but not at the level of now, of course, but at the level of september, before the massive price rises. and it can, because as always, self-war is not a problem for everyone, but for some it is even a lucrative business. then we're not just talking about the arms industry. according to the official figures of the international energy agency, the energy multinationals are going to make 200 billion extra profits, profits. we pay, they cash! let us tax them now and let us bring down the bill for the working man. it's war now, it's crisis now. european commission, trade, there is no time to wait!
madam chair, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to support this eighth environmental action programme. it's been brought up here a few times in the debate, our planet is dying, there's massive climate change, we need to find solutions. i can only hope that in practice these solutions will not lead to the deterioration of european industry and the energy poverty of our citizens. we should also be realistic about this. what i want to add to this debate, and say, in a way that i'm a little different from some of my colleagues, is to connect this search for alternatives to fossil fuels with the current geopolitical situation and with the attack of the dictator putin on ukraine. i find it hard to accept the thesis that by 2030 we will be taking fossil fuels from russia and that we will therefore continue to finance putin's aggressive activities for several years, in this case against ukraine, in the future against some other country. i think we need to find a solution to quickly move away from taking fossil fuels from russia, even at the price of taking fossil fuels from another supplier for a transitional period, from a supplier who will not misuse the money against a free and independent state. and that it is not possible to wait a few more years, but that it is necessary to stop the purchase of fossil fuels from russia this year. this is not a criticism of the plan we're discussing here today, which, as i said, i will support in the vote, but please, let's not allow putin to take money from us for years to come and use it for an offensive war. let's get fossil fuels from someone else for the transition. the commission has stated in its report that up to two thirds can be replaced this year. let's replace all fossil fuels from russia this year.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in times of uncertainty, darkness and turbulence, we sometimes need to remember what kind of society we are passionate about: a just, sustainable, democratic society. the fact that the eu can now agree across the political groups, in a clear direction for the eu, is a good sign of the union's strength. today we are voting on our eighth environmental action programme. it's a tradition that's been going on since the '70s. by 2050, the eu will be living in a climate-neutral society within planetary boundaries, and well before then emissions will be significantly reduced. we're going to live in a fully circular economy with high biodiversity and a non-toxic environment. we also clarify our 2030 milestones for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and phasing out hazardous chemicals. we must accelerate the pace of the green agenda and fully achieve the un development goals. i would have liked the member states to finally give in and accept the obvious in ending fossil subsidies, at the latest by 2025. it's a fight we have to keep going.
madam chair, we live in extremely critical times with the threat of global war and pandemics, which unfortunately puts climate change on the back burner. and now, more than ever, is the time to really separate economic development from resource exploitation and environmental destruction. despite having the most ambitious environmental policy in the world, the european economy bears €55 billion in health and other environmental costs every year because of the failure to implement environmental regulations and directives. our efforts must therefore be directed towards implementation and monitoring of results, and this eighth union environment action programme offers us just that, it contains a strong mechanism to monitor the implementation of environmental policies and provides guidelines for achieving the sustainable development goals, while protecting the social well-being of our citizens. it's also important that we support this program because by doing so, we support the right to live in a healthy environment and a sustainable economy.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am grateful for the opportunity we had today to discuss once more the eighth environmental action programme (eap), and i would like to thank all of you for your interventions. our citizens, in particular the youngest, expect us to address the climate and environmental crisis. yes, in the meantime, tragically, we are facing a new crisis caused by russia’s war on ukraine, which is threatening peace and stability in europe and beyond. it focuses our energy and attention, and rightly so. but the immense threat caused by climate change and by the destruction of our ecosystems remain and the war and its impact make our fight against this crisis even more relevant and more urgent than before. with the eighth eap, we have a joint strategy to 2030 and for the green transition. its strong narrative will focus minds and get everyone on board. it’s a plan for regional and local authorities, for citizens and businesses, for entrepreneurs, scientists and researchers. and thank you for recalling today the key challenges ahead. the need to review our tax system, the commitment to move to a well-being economy and environmental governance are all extremely important. let me briefly address some of the key points raised in today’s debate. concerning the next steps on environmentally harmful subsidies. i can say that we have a good plan, but very challenging circumstances. the eighth eap supports the commission’s effort to take ambitious action on phasing out environmentally harmful subsidies as soon as possible. we have to be clear that more subsidies for fossil fuels means less funds for other priorities – social policies, job creation, improving quality of life, including by better environment and less pollution. it is a fallacy that fossil fuel subsidies benefit the most vulnerable members of our society. there are other ways to help them. at the same time, those people are most exposed to environmental degradation and pollution. for fossil fuel subsidies, we will continue on the path set out in the governance regulation and the climate law. the commission is preparing an implementing act for the integrated national energy and climate progress report, which member states will have to submit every two years starting from 15 march 2023. the eap plan for adoption this year will also include a methodology for reporting on the phase out of energy subsidies, in particular for fossil fuels. for non-fossil fuel subsidies, there will be a sequencing of steps, notably on monitoring, reporting and a toolbox for phasing them out. let me now say just a few words on the focus on well-being. the beyond gdp narrative is very important to me. we need to ensure that we have a comprehensive approach to people, planet and prosperity. beyond gdp does not mean we do not care about people’s income, about energy or other forms of poverty. it’s just the opposite. the beyond gdp narrative and the commission has developed many new indicators in recent years to measure progress, especially on well-being and planetary boundaries, and the sustainable development goals are now being mainstreamed in all policy cycles, including the upcoming european semester spring package. now we are working also on finalising the monitoring framework for the eighth eap. once this is done, i will further pursue the eap call for measuring economic performance and societal progress beyond gdp and moving towards using well-being as a compass for policy. honourable members, dear colleagues, thank you once again for your support, for your relentless work and for your commitment to achieve this very good result.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the president-in-office. for over a hundred years, european workers have been fighting for a better working environment. yet over 3 300 people die at work in the eu every year. over 200 000 people die each year from work-related diseases after having worked. but we can do much better, and that is why i see today's vote on the seven-year european strategy on working conditions as a light in the dark - a path to a better working environment for all. we have negotiated a great report in the house. thank you to my colleagues for the incredible work we've done together. a common strategy to improve the safety and health of millions of europe's workers. the report sets ambitions at an all-time high. i'm proud of that. the commission's proposal was fine, but the workers of europe deserve more. because we do not want an eu where hundreds of thousands die every year from work-related cancers. we do not want a union where more than half of the workers experience stress in their daily lives, nor do we want a union where there are more than 3 million accidents at work every year. all the figures i mention about accidents, illnesses and mental ill health at work are a scandal. the commission's zero-vision approach is a very good idea. but we want to extend this vision to cover all occupational accidents. and i believe that we in europe have come far enough to demand that people should not be injured or sick from their work. it must be possible for all employees to be protected in relation to their physical and mental health when they go to work. a good example is asbestos. asbestos has been banned in the eu since 2005, but there are still many old buildings that need a thorough renovation, and many of them have asbestos in them. so many craftsmen will be working with asbestos without knowing it, without knowing the consequences and without knowing that over 80 000 die every year because of it. but the coming renovation wave is going to increase that number. we therefore propose a much lower limit value for work with asbestos, and we want stricter limits for a large number of carcinogens. you don't get cancer from doing your job. the coronavirus pandemic has had a major impact on our working conditions. many were sent home and thus lost the opportunity to see their colleagues in everyday life. and a large group of people have had to work more than normal, have been on the front lines and have worked under extra pressure and at risk of illness. when you can work from home, it also means you can work with devices all the time. it is therefore important that we discuss the right to free rest. the right to be offline. turn off your computer, turn off your phone, take time off when you have time off. homework is not something that goes away - and fortunately for you. it gives flexibility, but it is really important that we ensure access to the good working environment at home. and the same is true of stress. because it is not right that you can go to work with a lump in your stomach and think: how will i get through today? it doesn't have to be like this. finally, i would like to dispel a well-known myth: health and safety at work is not a huge expense. work environment is a good investment. companies must see health and safety as an investment and not an expense. it may be worth investing in a good working environment. with this report we have a solid basis for making good european legislation that improves the working environment for the whole of the eu. i hope the commission will take it up.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am very pleased to see the ongoing commitment of this house to the safety and health of workers in the european union. i fully share your engagement for safe and fair working conditions for all workers. i particularly want to thank the rapporteur, madam vind, and all those who have worked on this excellent report for this commitment. first of all, i agree with you that prevention is key and that nobody should suffer from work-related diseases or accidents. this is why this strategic framework on health and safety at work 2021-2027 adopted last year puts forward the vision-zero approach under which various actions are being put in place, including awareness-raising and capacity-building. first, your report refers to principle 10 of the pillar of social rights that clearly states that workers have the right to a high level of protection of health and safety at work. this should apply to all workers, but i must say this should also apply to those who are self-employed. they deserve the same protection. together, we have delivered the first commitment of the european cancer plan by adopting the fourth amendment of carcinogens, and with the gene’s directive, to protect workers from cancer. i must say that i particularly appreciated also, the provision that improves the protection of those who work in the health sector; the majority, by the way, are women. they are exposed to dangerous substances. they have to handle the treatment of patients and many patients suffering from cancer. so here we have set an important standard, which now has to be implemented in the health sector. but we don’t stop here. preparatory work on future batches of hazardous substances is ongoing. for instance, before the end of this year, the commission aims to adopt the next proposal, revising the exposure limit values for lead, major reprotoxicants and di- isocyanates as well as to put forward its plans for revising a further 25 substances. the parliament has been particularly sensitive to the need to reduce workers exposure to asbestos. the rapporteur mentioned it; we had the debate not so long ago on the dangers of asbestos. i fully share this determination. as i have already informed your parliament, the commission will present a communication setting out measures under existing and new instruments in view of addressing the risks from asbestos. your report mentions the terrible figures. asbestos claims around 88 000 lives annually in the european union and is responsible for 45% of all lung cancers. this is not a fatality. we have the possibility to reduce rapidly, and massively, these casualties. therefore, we will also present a legislative proposal to lower the existing occupational exposure limit under the asbestos at work directive. i agree with you that further action is also needed to protect workers from psychosocial risks. we strongly believe that the measures in this field must include tailor-made tools adjusted to specific national, local, socio-economic and cultural context. we are working on further actions in this area. for example, eu-osha 2023-3025 healthy workplaces campaign: safe and healthy work in the digital age, will, among others, address psychosocial and ergonomic risks. i know that your parliament is very sensitive also to the issue of mental health, and this is a real issue. we have seen it during the pandemic, but mental health has affected a lot of young people, but more and more, it affects also many workers, more and more workers to burnouts, to stress, and i have read in your report that 51% of workers say that stress is common in their workplace. so we have really to develop practices, approaches to limit this impact on mental health through the working conditions. we are also ensuring a proper follow-up of the parliament’s resolution on telework and the right to disconnect, in line with the commission’s commitment to respond to resolutions from the european parliament based on article 225. the role of social partners is key in the realm, therefore, the commission stands ready to support social partners in finding commonly agreed solutions to address these challenges and encourages social partners to follow up on their 2020 framework agreement on digitalisation. at the same time, the commission is putting forward a number of actions to gather evidence and data on telework and the right to disconnect. by the way, next week, together with the parliament, we are organising a conference on the right to disconnect. this includes also a study analysing the trends and regulatory and policy landscape of telework and the right to disconnect in europe, in the context of digitalisation and the future of work. as we move forward, we are drawing lessons from the covid-19 pandemic and looking at ways to increase preparedness for future crises. the commission continues working on an in-depth assessment on the effects of the pandemic and the efficiency of our frameworks to develop emergency procedures and guidance in any potential future health crisis. particular attention will also be paid to health workers who put their lives on the line for us. effective application and enforcement for the existing eu-osha legislation is paramount to properly protect workers in the eu and, at the same time, it contributes to the promotion of a level playing field in the union. while the enforcement is mainly a national competence, the senior labour inspectors’ committee promotes effective and proper application of the eu legislation across member states. i have to say that labour inspection is key and has to benefit from sufficient resources. i agree that the ilo recommendation of one labour inspector per 10 000 workers should be respected everywhere. we also need strong social dialogue to guarantee that enforcement. our strategic framework has a global ambition. the eu promotes decent work across all sectors and policies in third countries and in global supply chains. on 23 february, the commission adopted a communication on decent work worldwide. in the first half of 2023, the commission, together with the swedish presidency, will organise a high level occupational safety and health summit, gathering the eu institutions, member states, social partners, the eu-osha, and other relevant stakeholders. your report represents an important contribution to the preparations of this summit. i know that parliament gives its continued support and commitment to deliver on a healthy, safe and well-adapted work environment in europe, and this commission shares this commitment and will continue to work with you on its implementation.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the report and the commission's proposal. i should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr vind, and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. it is always the same rapporteurs who are involved in these matters and it is a great pleasure to work with you, shoulder to shoulder, across party lines. this strategic framework not only builds on the existing, but also addresses new trends in the labour market, such as mental well-being, teleworking and platform work. due to the covid-19 crisis, over 40% of employees started working remotely. in addition to many benefits, this has also led to an increase in psychosocial and ergonomic complaints. since corona, there has also been an increase in mental health problems among employees, such as burnout or depression. that is why we are calling in our report for a directive on mental health at work. in 2022, no one should die on the job just because they're doing their job. by 2022, no one should die at work from exposure to asbestos or carcinogens, or from a lack of safety measures. yet 200 000 europeans still die every year from occupational diseases, half of them from occupational cancers. we have already made a great deal of progress in recent years in tackling the most dangerous carcinogens and in the asbestos report. but to achieve our ambitious objective, we must do more. that is why our report also calls for greater risk prevention, ambitious safety standards, better european coordination of safety rules and additional labour inspections. i therefore call on you, colleagues, to give your full support to this report.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr pedro marques, and the negotiating team, many of whom are here, for the good cooperation we have had. for the first time, parliament will be taking a stand in favour of ambitious and effective measures such as a minimum withholding rate for interest, royalties and dividends, as well as the need for a common european framework for the taxation of these revenues. i would like to highlight three points in this report which i think are particularly relevant. firstly, it recognises the need, as i have said, for a minimum rate of withholding for interest, royalties and dividends. secondly, it recognises the need for a minimum withholding tax also for outflows from outside the european union. and thirdly, it clearly and forcefully demands that the european banking authority and esma be held accountable for the cum-ex scandal and assume their supervisory responsibilities. i would remind you that this scandal may have cost the loss of tax revenues of at least 150 billion euros globally over the last 20 years. in spain alone, for example, between 10 and 18 billion may have been lost. that is why we point out in this report that eba and esma have to explain because it seems unacceptable to us, from our point of view, that it is still not clear to what extent these dividend arbitrage operations or 'coupon laundering' are illegal or not. finally, the european parliament has never before expressed itself so clearly in favour of setting minimum rates. we expect the commission to take note of the next legislative proposal on withholding tax procedures in the eu, due in the second quarter of 2022. and in this connection, we must also ask the council to unblock and conclude quickly the negotiations on the revision of the interest and royalty directive, which also seems to us to be an essential step in the fight against tax fraud and evasion and in moving towards fair taxation in the european union. today we are covering an element of our tax harmonization in the eu which is essential and for that i would also like to end by thanking once again pedro marques and the whole team for the excellent work.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i welcome and support any initiative that reduces administration and encourages the exchange of tax information. moreover, the progress made in this area in recent years has made a major contribution to the fight against tax avoidance at union level and in the member states. i also attach great importance to the measures we are taking to make life easier for small and medium-sized enterprises and to facilitate their operation in the single market. the report, however, as we have been accustomed to seeing in this house, goes beyond the specific subject and includes proposals for tax harmonization. i would just like to remind my colleagues that these are national competences. there is no legal basis for making withholding tax compulsory, for harmonising the rate, for saying which third country to enter into which tax treaty with. instead of constantly attacking national tax policies, we should focus on taxing multinational corporations or the digital tax issue.
mr president, commissioner, the truth is that it is difficult to talk about anything other than the war in ukraine, especially after seeing the images this afternoon of that bombed maternity hospital. but we're going to try. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr marques on this good report which, in some way, joins or insists on a certain reorientation of the tax debate we are witnessing at world level. we welcomed the agreement in the oecd a few months ago and we also welcome the commission's proposal to put pillar 2 of that agreement into operation now and we hope that we will have a proposal quickly for pillar 1 as well. this report complements these international agreements and also highlights the need to go further in other areas, in the case of today's taxation of dividends or withholding taxes, where there are tax evasion and avoidance options that we have known and that we need, without a doubt, to close absolutely in the european union. i regret that in this debate, as in most cases, the council is not with us. we have been fighting for years for the council to take action in tax matters and for that unanimity, which is somehow required, to be revised, and to be revised quickly. that is why i am surprised, and i have to say it, that those who are now calling for solidarity with the countries which are hosting refugees are coming here and talking about all these stories again, that they do not want to know anything about european management, about taxes, as we have heard in this debate. anyway, congratulations to you, pedro. i hope the commission will take note and i hope the council will act quickly.
mr president, uber in amsterdam, nike in hilversum, pfizer in capelle aan den ijssel. yes, it’s a list of multinationals in the netherlands, but it’s also a list of multinationals in the netherlands that shift profits and cheat us out of billions. it points to a fundamental flaw at the heart of europe, and the flaw is that when we removed the borders within europe, we forgot to put up a common european border with the rest of the world. and the results: profits flow to the country where they can leave the european union untaxed. this is why nike books its european profits in the netherlands and pays it out tax-free to offshore subsidiaries in the form of royalties, amassing usd 12.2 billion. pfizer channels dividends to the us to avoid taxes on over eur 10 billion. uber uses a 16 billion internal loan to channel all eu profits to tax havens in singapore in the form of interest. and the list goes on. its interest, royalties and dividends, and it can find its way out of the eu tax free. and if one country raises its rates, there’s always another country to let them out. but there is an obvious solution and i’m glad to see it. it is a common eu withholding tax. with this, we can finally complete the schengen of capital and combine free movement within the eu with common borders with the outside world. this is part and parcel of any future tax reform. and i want to warmly congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague pedro marques, and the shadows for finding a broad majority and a clear signal from this parliament. it’s literally worth billions.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would again just like to thank the parliament and the rapporteur. i think that these proposals will be quite important for the proposal that the commission will table in the coming months. in the two discussions we had this evening, i think we clearly understood together the link between the difficult situation we are in and the need to protect our public finances to improve the capital market union, which is fundamental. we know the difficulties because we have been dealing with these difficulties for years and years: to simplify without harmonisation and to guarantee transparency, respecting national sovereignty, these are all difficult balances to find. but i think that, with the parliament and the commission working together in the same direction, the direction we discussed this afternoon, we can find the political boost to try to find solutions, and these solutions are in the interests of the entire union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 march 2022.
i have an announcement to make. the renew group has sent the president a decision to change the appointments to a delegation. this decision shall be published in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its notification.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs yana toom, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the report on citizenship 2020: strengthening citizens' participation and protecting citizens' rights (2021/2099 (ini)) (a9-0019/2022). as you know, this debate is taking place in a changed context.
rapporteur. – mr president, european citizens are one of the success stories of the european union. it is proof that we are not just a group of countries, but a union based on common values and principles. but every success must be protected and not taken for granted, such is the case with freedom of movement. the notion of a borderless europe is second nature for hundreds of millions of europeans, and yet so many of us have had an experience of the exact opposite when travel restrictions were imposed in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic. these restrictions have had a significant negative impact on the lives of europeans. in this house, we said before that any disruptions to the ease of internal movement should be proportionate to the risk caused by the pandemic and should be lifted as soon as it is deemed no longer necessary. as the epidemiological situation takes a turn for the better in the majority of member states, we must watch the situation carefully and take steps towards removing any restrictions that interfere with the freedom of movement. having freedom of movement does not only mean that you are able to pass from one country to another without being checked on the border. the full enjoyment of this right means that any european can move to another member state and start enjoying life in the new country. this means that there should not be discrimination based on nationality, that living in another country should not affect access to national services, that people should have a right to influence the decisions that affect them. it means that they should not be overburdened by arbitrary or even discriminatory administrative procedures. it means that they should not be subject to double taxation. we must not forget that mobile europeans face many different situations when living in another member state. same-sex marriages are not recognised in every member state. cross-border couples with children that go through a separation might be faced with court proceedings that are harder and more complex than those for regular couples. cross-border and seasonal workforce is at the core of the european economic activity, but they aren’t always treated in the best way. we have situations in some countries where mobile europeans are not able to get national sickness insurance or a social security number, and this leaves them without access to a majority of that country’s administrative services. all of these are areas we need to work on. the commission will soon release an updated version of the guidelines on the implementation of the freedom of movement directive, and this is the perfect opportunity to address such challenges, and we call on the commission to investigate these practices and to address them in the guidelines. there are challenges as well with mobile citizens’ electoral rights. some europeans that choose to move to another country are unfortunately left without the right of participation in elections. their native member state does not allow them to vote in elections as they have left the country and their host member state does not allow them to vote in general elections as they are not nationals. and on top of that, they’re being hindered in the voting in local elections by a combination of burdensome procedures. we simply cannot stand for this because our union is based on democratic values that cherish universal suffrage. we have to ease the access to elections so that mobile europeans should be able to vote or stand for local and european elections just as easily as locals, and we have to explore and expand the possibilities of remote voting. we should also improve the participatory framework that allows europeans to have a say in european law-making. in our committee we sometimes receive petitions which are better suited for the ombudsman or citizens’ initiative. this makes me think that europeans might be confused about the participatory tool that they should be using. this could easily be solved by creating a single platform with access to all three, and better guidance on the appropriate tool. lastly, the european citizenship rights we are so proud of cannot make a difference if europeans are not aware of them. that is why we must do more to inform people about their rights and we must promote political education on eu affairs.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone who contributed to the eu citizenship report 2020. with the adoption of the eu citizenship report, the commission has once again reaffirmed its attachment to the strengthening and promotion of eu citizenship rights. alongside peace, eu citizenship is one of the most significant achievements of the european project and is unique in the world. today, as we are witnessing a brutal aggression taking place on our continent, we are once again reminded of the values of peace, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and of the importance to place individual rights at the centre of our policies and of our actions. we are a union of free citizens. our guiding principles in the citizenship report are to empower all eu citizens and protect their rights, while safeguarding democratic values and the rule of law as a priority. having this in mind, we have now embarked on the implementation of our commitments from the citizenship report. to that end, the commission has established the following priorities, in particular strengthening democratic participation and citizens’ empowerment, protecting and promoting eu citizenship, facilitating the exercise of free movement and simplifying daily life, and protecting eu citizens in europe and abroad, including in times of crisis. the future of european democracy depends on making sure citizens participate actively. we need to encourage civic and democratic participation in order to sustain and further develop open and inclusive societies. this is why the commission notably proposed the new priorities and actions aiming to enhance democratic participation, empowerment and inclusion. this includes the proposal we made in november 2021 to update the rules on the voting rights of mobile eu citizens. we also continue our efforts to protect the very concept of eu citizenship. the commission’s position is clear. european values are not for sale. as exchanged on this point yesterday, the commission will continue its efforts to ensure that no member states sell eu citizenship. now, more than ever, the covid—19 pandemic and the war in ukraine are also highlighting the value of solidarity between member states as well as individual members of society.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, citizenship of the european union is one of its most tangible achievements and lies at the heart of a common european identity, based on equality and non-discrimination. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the institutions of the union ensure that the rights deriving from its citizenship are not undermined in any way. i therefore suggested that common regulations on the granting of european citizenship be promoted, applicable in all member states, so that unfair competition in the granting of passports between member states is stopped and the programme is not abused. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from discrimination. discrimination on the grounds of sex, nationality, sexual orientation, language, or ethnic origin. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's social policy. the requirement for citizens of the european union to exercise their voting rights, even when they reside in another european member state, is a frequent phenomenon of references, as the right to vote is one of the most important rights of our citizens. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the citizens of the union are not deprived of the right to vote in the european parliament. the free movement of persons is also one of the great achievements of the union, since it gives our citizens the opportunity to travel, study, set up businesses, work and live in harmony in other countries of the union. in recent years, however, there has been an increasing number of reports relating to problems faced by citizens in relation to their right to free movement. it is therefore easy to see that we must find solutions immediately, without further delay, because the issue is directly linked to the image of the european union itself.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, we are all very concerned these days. i therefore want to thank my colleague, mr yana toom, in particular for the great work he has done with the other rapporteurs on this report. this report is very important, even if it is a very late hour for debate. three years ago i myself had the opportunity to assess the implementation of european citizenship, so i know how important it is. everything we said then, everything that is being put forward now - which is a great deal of work - is absolutely necessary. but it's also that the times we're living in, the russian invasion of ukraine itself, has changed our view of many of the things that we used to look at with even less concern. european citizenship will become essential, because we europeans will face, united, every threat and every blackmail. that's why reinforcing it makes perfect sense; that's why analyzing it, as you have done, makes perfect sense. and we are being asked to give european citizens a statute which says that they are citizens and that, as such, they have additional rights which must also be strengthened. and it is a success story: european citizenship unites us and identifies us; and that common democratic identity for the 21st century is what will make it possible - as i say - for us to stay afloat despite the threats. his nature is now strategic. and today, more than ever, it is people who give the european union its meaning. the project's cohesion lies in the citizens' desire for a strong and geopolitically relevant european union. and that is why we cannot fail them; that is why this report on implementation is important. we can and must give citizens more reason and strength to defend our democracies, by putting them at the centre of the political system, as you have done. it is very important, and we must also deal with the need to give all the necessary rights to the stateless. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs very much for their work.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, today we are discussing the eu citizenship report. let’s ask the following question: which notion describes the situation that is the opposite to the possession of citizenship? your answer would be ‘statelessness’. but this is not a complete answer because some stateless people are not actually stateless, while at the same time they are not citizens of any state. this interesting special status was invented in two member states, latvia and estonia. the people are not stateless since the state issues them ‘non-citizen’ passports, granting protection abroad and the right to free return to the country. in fact, these people are being deprived of a number of political and social rights, and are second-class citizens of the country. in 2004 the european parliament resolution on the state of preparedness of latvia for eu membership recommended that the authorities envisage the possibility of allowing non-citizens to take part in local government elections. it was a citation. our non-citizens, making up 10% of the population, can now take part in municipal and european elections. in the petitions committee we are trying to do our best. petitions tabled by latvian and estonian non-citizens have been examined; we are implementing the recommendations on voting rights in our deliberation reports; special debates took place in this very same hemicycle in 2009, etc. the commission has to react, finally, and the declaration approximating the equality of non-citizens with eu citizens in the whole sphere of eu competence is a solution. such a solution will give a much bigger weight to this same notion of eu citizenship.
on behalf of the id group. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i am more concerned with the citizenship of the nation states than with the largely artificial citizenship of the european union. the european union should remain a voluntary platform of cooperation and should stop trying to take on the appearance of a centralised state. the statement in the left-liberal german government agreement that the european union should become a so-called federal state of europe is a serious warning. you may think that eu citizenship gives you freedoms, but that is where the error lies. freedom is not granted. eu citizenship can also lead to excessive centralised control of citizens. i therefore strongly protest against the european commission's plans to introduce a digital identity, a so-called digital wallet. we saw during the corona crisis what an unacceptable control society we had become in such a short time: a society that made citizens dependent on a centralized digital green light to be allowed to be free citizens. this so-called "covid safe ticket" thus became the foreshadowing of the chinese-style control society, where freedom is a reward bestowed upon citizens with the right behavior determined by big brother centrally. freedom is no longer inviolable above all else in that context. freedom is generously granted in that federal state through a digital wallet. the european union is thus facilitating the organization of the non-liberty. corona was just a taste, a test phase for the further slide. the european digital identity is the confirmation and anchorage of that control company. the id group in general and my national party, flemish interest, in particular, will oppose this with all our might. i call on the commission to put an end to this project immediately and definitively, and i call on the member states to discuss it in the council.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this debate and assure you that the rights of eu citizens and their effective exercise remain in the centre of our work. the opinion of citizens is well known. for them, eu citizenship is both about protecting our common values and principles, as well as delivering practical benefits and freedoms, allowing them to lead their lives more fully. and we must never lose sight of both of these dimensions. and by the way, mr annemans, the covid passport or covid certificate saved at least 20 million jobs in the eu, in the tourism sector and in other related sectors, because thanks to this, people were able to travel and use these services in a more or less normal way. so, i cannot help it, this was practical and this was very much welcomed by the people. and also this is very much welcomed according to what the citizens are expressing and telling us in the conference on the future of europe debates, but thank you for your opinion. honourable members, your report and this debate is a valuable contribution to our implementation of the current report, as well as for our preparation for the next one. let me thank you again for your contributions.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner, all the colleagues and of course all the shadow rapporteurs. i apologise that i didn’t thank you in the very beginning, i did have a feeling that we are approaching the end. but in my closing remarks, i unfortunately have to address the letter sent this evening by a group of meps regarding tomorrow’s vote, in particular with a concern that we are aiming to give stateless people and long-term residents the same rights as eu citizens. let me underline on the european level, not intervening into citizenship policy of member states. this para says, for instance, that stateless people in the eu are not protected from discrimination under eu acquis and are not covered by the visa code. the authors of the letters are not concerned by that. their concern is putin, to whom, in their view, adoption of the report will give a platform to attack estonia and latvia. firstly, this is a problem not only in my home country and neighbouring latvia, this is also a problem, for instance, of roma people in many different member states. secondly, i believe that bringing putin into this discussion is absolutely unacceptable and shows very poor understanding of the problem. we are speaking about europeans, we are speaking about people who are living in europe for decades, we are speaking about taxpayers. the number of petitions received by our committee on this issue, number of signatures collected in different member states to support minorities clearly shows that these people rely on europe. they do not rely on putin. they rely on us. so please let us show that the words we are so often using in this house, ‘nobody is left behind’, actually are true.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 march 2022.
the meeting is now adjourned and will resume at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow, thursday, march 10, 2022, as announced with the announcement of the results of today's second round of voting. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
i'll start with the second vote of the night. (the president of the sitting shall decline to vote) the following table is added: * for more information, see the minutes. before moving on to the debate, i would like to give the floor to mr moretti, pursuant to rule 59 (4), in view of the fact that the report by mr bonafè on batteries and waste batteries has been referred back to the committee for institutional negotiations.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, following the vote on the amendments, on behalf of the rapporteur ms bonafè, i would like to request referral back to committee pursuant to rule 59(4), in order to start interinstitutional negotiations.
this request will be voted on after the vote on the commission proposal in today's first vote.
the next item is the commission communication on transparency and administrative standards for the processing of requests for public access to documents under regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 (2022/0578 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there will be no open microphone procedures or blue cards accepted in any of the debates in this session. as in previous sessions, it is also planned to organise remote speeches from parliament's local offices in the member states. i would also like to remind you that the courtroom will continue to be the central stand. so i encourage you to follow the list of speakers and go to the central stand when your time to speak approaches.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for the possibility to speak on transparency and administrative standards. as you know, transparency is one of the underlying principles of this commission. the transparency obligation embraces several areas. one is public access to documents, but there is also legislative transparency and transparency of relations of the commissioners, members of cabinets and directors general with interest representatives. the interinstitutional agreement on a mandatory transparency register ensures greater transparency of the relations of institutions with interest representatives. the commission proactively publishes a wide variety of legal, policy, administrative and other documents on different websites and registers. many are available on the register of commission documents, the register of delegated and implementing acts, and other corporate registers on eur—lex. last year, the commission released a new version of the register of commission documents featuring additional search functionalities, an improved user interface and the proactive publication of new document types. in the second phase of this project, the commission will integrate the register of commission documents with other commission registers, thus gradually transforming it into a single entry point for commission documents. the regulation concerning public access to documents lays down the general principles and limits to the right to public access to documents, and provides the means of redress available against the final decision of the institution, a complaint to the european ombudsman or an action before the court. i would like to draw your attention to the two legislative proposals for recast of this regulation tabled by the commission and which have been pending for a long period. the commission does not see, for the moment, a willingness on the part of the co-legislators to engage in a revision process on the basis of these proposals, and we remain fully ready to support further legislative and political discussions. if there is no prospect for any further progress on these files, the commission is also ready to propose their withdrawal again and come with a new, updated and holistic proposal adapted to the developing realities of the 21st century, also considering the case law and the ombudsman’s recommendations. in the meantime, the commission is regularly analysing its administrative practice. for example, currently we are working to develop a new portal and new it tools. with this new portal and it systems for submitting and handling requests for access to commission documents – electronic access to european commission documents, that’s the name of the system – citizens will be able to submit their initial and confirmatory requests, see their ongoing and closed requests, receive replies electronically with no need for notification, search for documents disclosed to other applicants, manage their personal data, and so on. the system is expected to go live by mid—2022 – so, very soon. the statistical data for access to documents show a high level of transparency, as full or partial access is granted to a vast majority of the requested documents. the commission receives a high number of requests for access to documents. concretely, 8 001 initial and 309 confirmatory applications were received in 2020, more than for any other institution. transparency is thus part of the daily business of all commission departments. the statistics from 2020 show that requests for documents by citizens were fully or partially granted in 81% of the initial cases. wider, or even full, access was further granted in more than 37% of the cases reviewed at the confirmatory stage. this proves that the commission takes transparency very seriously. the preliminary data from 2021 that will be presented in the forthcoming commission annual report on public access to documents confirm this positive trend, as well as the high interest on the part of the general public to obtain access to documents held by the commission in the areas related to the pandemic and the recovery and resilience programmes. this data shows the commitment of the commission to the right of access to documents as part of its overall transparency policy, including in the unprecedented pandemic situation. with regard to the transparency of the purchase of the vaccines against covid—19, the commission proactively published the advance purchase agreements with pharmaceutical companies. we are also preparing a response to the european ombudsman recommendation on the european commission’s refusal to grant public access to the text messages exchanged between the commission president and the ceo of a pharmaceutical company on the purchase of a covid—19 vaccine. the commission will provide a response by the deadline of 26 april 2022.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, transparency is essential for accountability, and accountability is the cornerstone of democracy. now, the commission pledges allegiance to transparency and indeed we have laws in place, but we all know that the practice is an entirely different one. and i happen to be a veteran of access to document requests, and i can tell you the commission and the council are actually not practicing a culture of transparency. they go out of their way to avoid transparency. and it’s not only the commission and the council. if you look at frontex, which is not only refusing access to documents but then making applicants pay for expensive external lawyers that they’ve hired. and then we also see that the european council is taking over more and more of the legislative work of the council so that a growing chunk of decision—making is moving back into the black box. now, let’s get to the case at hand here. the european commission has its own wrong interpretation of the transparency regulation, and this is not me considering that, this is considered maladministration by the european ombudsman, and the european ombudsman knows a thing or two about transparency. yesterday, a dutch newspaper called follow the money disclosed internal papers from the commission legal service and other services that show that the legal service had already warned against the commission interpretation of the transparency regulation, saying that the definitions were insufficiently precise. so the commission knew, but it chose to ignore those warnings. if we cannot trust the guardian of the treaties to be open to scrutiny, if the guardian of the treaties is deliberately, knowingly misinterpreting the transparency rules, how can we trust them? there’s been the case of the text messages exchanged between president von der leyen and mr bourla. and i think it is high time that president von der leyen confirms if they have been deleted, yes or no. and to those who start to hyperventilate about the confidentiality of commercial negotiations, you should know the transparency regulation, ok? i recommend everybody reads it because the fact that those messages are considered a document officially, doesn’t mean that they will automatically have to be published, but they must be open to requests for access. if the president doesn’t feel that she is accountable to the public and to this house, i would like to know how we can trust the commission to manage the spending of eur 450 million on weapons in the near future. i’m all in favour of the military support to ukraine, but i also think that strict scrutiny is in order. president von der leyen also happens to have a past as defence minister, where she ran into the same trouble with an exchange of messages that she deleted, so she should have known better. incidentally, i think president von der leyen should have been here. there seems to be a pattern of avoiding debates where awkward questions may be asked. i think that is a contempt for democracy, it’s a contempt for parliament. but one last remark. we should do also more as a parliament. we cannot outsource parliamentary scrutiny to the european court of justice or to the ombudsman or the court of auditors. we have to hold the commission to account.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, we have all heard the ombudsman speak of bad governance. and we found something else: not only during the negotiations between big pharma, pfizer and the european commission, the president of the european commission was sending little text messages to the ceo of pfizer, but also, the more text messages she sent, the more the price went up. indeed, the cost of the third dose is now higher than the cost of the first dose. that's still a little fishy. you text during negotiations and the price goes up. the objective should be the opposite. so we wondered whether the european commission was not potentially scamming us, whether it was not organizing a social security heist by handing over its money to friends from big pharma, pfizer, etc. citizens then remembered - indeed, it was said - that regulation which allows you to request public access to documents (that is, that each of the citizens you are supposed to represent can request access to documents, whatever the medium, whether they are on paper or stored in electronic form), and that is what citizens did. and you answered. and what did you say? no, sorry, we may have deleted it, because this public access does not apply to messages that are ephemeral or short-lived. i'll give you that. it's a good one. it's cynically brilliant: when you delete information, it becomes ephemeral, and since it's ephemeral, you have the right to delete it. look, this is a good idea. it's some kind of a bad faith master class you gave. we'll probably never know what's in it. we have to review the rules, of course, but the best rules are useless if you do not intend to apply them, to respect their soul and purpose. in fact, what you are telling people - and i think this is serious - is that you may not be trusted and that the european institutions will eventually find a way around it to avoid transparency. and this is gonna be paid in cash.
madam president, commissioner, as you have said, the social and environmental impacts of the textile sector are no longer to be demonstrated. i would add to the long list you have already drawn up that workers are at 60% risk of being forced to work, that women, who make up the majority of the workforce in this sector, work in poor conditions for unfair pay, not to mention child labour, that they handle dangerous, sometimes prohibited, chemical substances without protection. and as consumers, we are often unaware that by wearing these clothes, we are also experiencing the effects of endocrine disruptors and other substances harmful to health and the environment. regulating the textile sector is therefore one of the keys to achieving the european green deal and the sustainable development goals. the european strategy for sustainable textiles must drastically reduce the ecological and social footprint of the sector and, above all, apply to all companies, including smes, which make up the majority of the sector. unfortunately, the directive on the duty of vigilance of companies does not do this, as it is limited to the largest multinationals. in addition, to have a real impact, the strategy must be complemented by tools that must be adopted for the textile sector, such as the ban on the import of products resulting from forced labour, but also the ban on harmful chemical substances. the demand from the citizens is strong. it's time to answer them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago i was in ukraine. i must confess that i am sometimes embarrassed to hear certain positions here, embarrassed by the hesitations of some when it should be time to mobilize to produce? we know that ukraine's production, storage and export capacities are being undermined or destroyed today. we also know that the risks of war and its continuation may bring even greater disasters tomorrow. meanwhile, some people are stalling. yes, we must produce and use every square inch this year to ensure that production is sufficient. we owe it to the ukrainians, to our farmers and to our consumers, so that they can still eat at a decent price tomorrow. we also owe it to the somalis, the egyptians and all those who will indeed need our food tomorrow to be able to simply feed themselves and meet their needs. so yes, it is not time for procrastination, it is time for production and general mobilization. i think we would do well to draw inspiration from the strength and the will that exists in ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, switzerland has bomb shelters for its entire population. good. but they also have and provide financial shelter for those who make us need bomb shelters: russian oligarchs evading eu sanctions. the investigative report showing that switzerland’s second bank, credit suisse, harbours dirty money from, among others, russian oligarchs, reminds us that we have to be alert for swiss loopholes that can undermine eu sanctions against putin’s friends. oligarchs installed not before, but after russia started its insane war in ukraine, although switzerland joined these sanctions. according to the financial times, credit suisse sent letters to investors requesting them to destroy documents linked to the securitisation of assets. these documents show for example that russian oligarch alisher usmanov – identified as ‘one of putin’s favourite oligarchs’ and subject to an asset freeze and eu travel ban – is linked to about 27 secret corporate accounts. we must review swiss banking and money-laundering practices. behind the russian soldiers shooting at ukrainian children and committing war crimes in ukraine right now, there are those swiss banks and the oligarchs they support. they are all accountable. to quote the ukrainian soldiers: ‘they should all go fuck themselves’.
president, at present the 27 eu countries pay a small billion euro a day for russian coal, oil and gas. the arab oil sheiks are also making huge profits now that the barrels are selling for 120 euros. the tragedy is that you chose to do it. the lessons of the double oil embargo of the 1970s imposed on us by the muslim countries were not learned. and it could be even crazier: nuclear energy the clean, cheap, reliable alternative is being phased out in germany, and in belgium, well-functioning nuclear power plants are being replaced by polluting gas plants. this insane policy is supported by communists, greens, socialists. i'm not surprised. but the fact that christian democrats and liberals are also involved in this madness is truly beyond words.
in writing. following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply. the socialists in parliament argue for the need for solutions to tackle rising energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. the union must act now, in a united and coordinated way, to curb the price escalation that is weighing down the economy of citizens and businesses. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia. in this respect, spain can play a very important role in diversification, as it has a large lng (liquified natural gas) infrastructure, including around 30% of the union's regasification capacity. but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
in writing. as a child, i loved to play ping-pong. but the way the commission and the council have been turning the ball back at each other for weeks is shameful. in the face of an absolute social emergency, where people all over europe are afraid to turn on the heating or go to the gas station, the commission asks the council to act, the council asks the commission for proposals, but while the workers drink and the multinationals fill their pockets, no one acts. the 'toolboxes' and recommendations, even with a nice logo of the european commission, are not to be eaten. we are now in spring and we are still waiting for the first strong action from the european union. no price freezes. no concrete proposal for a tax on capital gains. and even fewer proposals to get out of this market model, which is showing its bankruptcy a little more every day. so let's lock in the prices, tax the profits of speculators and war profiteers, and break with this market model. let's invest heavily in renewables now. let's raise the climate goals. let's take publicly the transition to achieve the social climate revolution.
first, i would like to inform you that, pursuant to rule 176 of the rules of procedure, i have decided to impose a penalty on angel dzhambazki for his improper behaviour on 16 february 2022, where he held out his right arm in a gesture that was perceived to be a nazi salute upon leaving the chamber. this harmed the dignity and reputation of the european parliament. the penalty consists in the forfeiture of his entitlement to the daily subsistence allowance for a period of six days. mr dzhambazki was notified of the decision on 31 march. he is entitled to lodge an internal appeal against it with the bureau, in accordance with the rules of procedure.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on eu protection of children and young people fleeing the war against ukraine (2022/2618(rsp)). i remind you that we are testing some of the recommendations of the focus group on plenary reform. that means that free seating is applied, with the exception of the first two rows that are allocated to group leaders. that means that you will be able to request catch—the—eye and blue cards via your voting machine after having inserted your voting card. therefore, i invite you always to bring your voting cards to the chamber, and instructions have been made available on your desks. should you wish to register for catch—the—eye, i invite you to do so starting from now and therefore not waiting until the end of the debate. also following the recommendations of the focus group, the speaking time allocated for key debate for all interventions will be a minimum of two minutes, and this principle applies to the catch—the—eye interventions as well. this also means that members can speak for a longer amount of time to give the possibility for the speech to be more meaningful. i also remind you that blue cards can be raised for a short intervention and that will allow for a short, proportionate response with a follow—up question. i would also like to remind you that interventions here will continue to be made from the lectern, except for catch—the—eye, blue cards and points of order. i kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the lectern when your speaking time is imminent.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, good morning. i want to thank honourable members for dedicating time to this very, very important topic. all of us know that children’s rights are human rights, and this is something we have to keep in mind. every child has the right to grow up in a secure environment, to play, to learn, and to have prospects for a peaceful future. today, we see children under attack in ukraine, on our european soil. we see their most basic rights, including the very right to life, brutally denied. children are trapped in the bomb shelters, caught in crossfire and are braving harsh conditions. look at bucha. these harrowing images cannot, and will not, be left unanswered. the perpetrators of these crimes must not go unpunished, and a global response is necessary. two and a half million children have been forced from their homes and some two million children have crossed the border into the european union. many arrive without their parents. i think there are about 100 000 children in ukrainian institutions, more than half of them with disabilities. it is a top priority for all of us to urgently respond to their needs. on 23 march, the commission adopted its communication on welcoming those fleeing war in ukraine, readying europe to meet their needs. we outlined concrete measures that equip the european union and member states to offer these children protection and give them swift access to their rights and services without any discrimination. we are making european union funding available to support inclusion, foster care, psychosocial support and counselling. unaccompanied minors, and separated and orphaned children are at high risk of abuse and exploitation. we are working to obtain sufficient data so that all children are properly registered. my colleague ylva johansson will speak in more detail about this later on. legal guardians must be assigned as quickly as possible. potential foster families should be vetted so that the children do not end up in abusive households. our member states’ national offices for children, child protection services and the ombudsman are mobilised. i can confirm that national coordinators of the european child guarantee are now operational. they will play an important role in providing access to key services. we have established a solidarity platform for member states. this will help ensure effective coordination and cooperation. we recently launched the european union network for children’s rights, which will strengthen the coordination among child rights actors and help us identify further needs. education is key. we support our member states to help children return to school to regain a sense of normality. integration into national childcare and school systems will be accompanied by psychosocial support, and culture and sport activities to help overcome trauma, language and cultural barriers. the commission’s school education gateway will serve as a one—stop shop to link educational material from ukraine to member states’ material in the ukrainian language. we will also draw on the capacities of ukrainian teachers among the new arrivals in the european union. upon arrival, healthcare is crucial. children will need psychosocial care. many will have missed out on proper nutrition. standard paediatric vaccinations will be prioritised and the commission is supporting the supply of vaccines through hera. inside ukraine, genuine humanitarian corridors must be established to evacuate the most vulnerable. we are providing substantial humanitarian aid, working with our international partners and in coordination with the ukrainian authorities to ensure humanitarian aid reaches its destination and that children can receive protection. this war will mark the children of ukraine for life. we will not leave a stone unturned to ensure that they will be well cared for, that they can recover and be a child again. this is not only a job. it is our collective responsibility and a human imperative.
member of the commission. – madam president, putin’s army has so far killed a reported 158 children in ukraine and wounded many more. last month, russian soldiers shot matvey, eight years old, and his little brother, four—year—old klim, and their mother, margarita, as they tried to escape the hell of bucha. these war crimes must not go unpunished. eurojust and europol will have a key role to play here. about two million children have escaped ukraine with their lives. many children now face a new danger, a danger i warned of here in plenary last time we met here in strasbourg nearly one month ago: the danger of trafficking. your resolution shows that you share my concerns. the lithuanian authorities are investigating the possible trafficking of 43 children for adoption. there are no confirmed cases yet, but we know from bitter experience that the danger is real. children are at the top of our agenda, key among the ten priorities i presented at the extraordinary council last week, priorities for welcoming people fleeing the war. our aim is to protect children from war zone to safe home. last month, member states pledged to welcome more than 15 500 ukrainian refugees from moldova, and 512 have now arrived in the eu, many of them children. my services are working on standard operating procedures for transferring unaccompanied minors between member states, making clear, when registering, relocating and referring children, we must never forget that they are children and keep their best interests in mind. the eu agency for asylum will play a central role. we are working with the agency on common guidance and standards, and i cannot praise unicef enough for the great job they are doing, protecting children in the eu and in ukraine. since day one, i’ve been working to prevent trafficking, starting at the eu border, where 282 frontex staff are helping to identify people at risk or from trafficking. europol is gathering intelligence, coordinating police cooperation, and monitoring online activities by potential traffickers and people trying to exploit the services of victims. europol has set up a specific task force against trafficking in human beings to work with law enforcement in ukraine and in eu countries along the border. many member states are warning against the dangers of trafficking with websites and hotlines, handing out leaflets at train stations, and increasing police presence. our agency for law enforcement training (cepol) is teaching border guards, police and others to identify potential victims and traffickers. we have issued calls to use our eu funds to prevent and fight trafficking and support victims. last july, i appointed diane schmitt as eu anti-trafficking coordinator. right away, in the first week of war, she activated a network of national rapporteurs against trafficking of human beings, and they have already met twice. she visited romania and poland, together with your intergroup on children’s rights, and she’s doing a very important job in these days. our priority now is registration, registration, registration. we need to know where these children are – all 2 million. not one child can go missing. the member states need to step up on registration. eu-lisa is starting technical work to put in place a platform so that member states can exchange information, a platform for registration. we also need to register providers of housing and transport so refugees know who is safe, who they can trust. as my colleague, vice—president dubravka šuica, has just said, we have set up the solidarity platform to coordinate efforts. it has met twice a week since the war started. soon the solidarity platform will meet in a session dedicated to protecting children to discuss issues member states can only address together: how to trace children, boosting registration in member states of arrival and destination, reception capacities for children, including children with disabilities, and cooperation with the ukrainian authorities. to endorse an action plan against trafficking of human beings, we must also work on family reunification. our great challenge still lies ahead of us. the longer this war goes on, the greater the risk to children. and just imagine that you are a ukrainian mother or father, looking at your three children and having to take a very, very difficult decision. should we keep the children here, where we know they are in danger, or should we send them with our friend and her two children, who will soon leave on a potentially dangerous journey to the european union, knowing the risk that this might be the last time we see our children. so many ukrainian parents have been forced to take this very, very difficult decision. these ukrainian parents want us to keep their children safe. they count on us. so let’s show them that they can count on us.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with each passing day the news from ukraine is becoming more dismal. i don't mean the advances on the front, no, what is terrible and desolate is to see that in the year 2022 atrocities like those we have seen during these days in bucha can occur. those handcuffed bodies, that macabre scene over the road. every day that passes seems to be more attended to a duel between civilization and barbarism, between humanity and cruelty. we still have in our retinas the images of the bombing of the mariupol maternity and children's hospital, where a girl, a pregnant woman and her baby were killed. these crimes will be investigated, because we will not rest until the guilty pay for it. but now we have a responsibility to mitigate as much as possible this madness provoked by putin. and the first thing is to protect the child. no boy or girl should ever know war. we're doing everything we can to make this go away as soon as possible. but there are already seven and a half million children who lived in ukraine and have left their homes. they've had to disappear from their lives overnight. some are living in hiding, others have had to move away from their cities and other countries, even leaving behind their families, their parents, their grandparents. the european union can and must help them, whatever their situation. and this requires a package with a battery of measures that must be worked out and negotiated between the commission and the council, with an urgent proposal coordinated with the ukrainian government. emergency assistance is urgently needed to ensure shelter, safe drinking water, food and hygiene products for children and their families. but let us not forget that they are children and they also need places to play, to continue their education and also psychosocial support. we must insist on the humanitarian corridors. we must not allow them to kill again those who try to escape. the union must work with international organisations to ensure that these people are evacuated and protected. these people are especially vulnerable to the mafia as well. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. that's why it's so important that the public authorities get involved. this is how we can channel the whole torrent of solidarity, which is important, which we must value, but which we obviously need to enable and ensure that not a single child or woman falls into the hands of the child trafficking network. there are already more than four million people who have arrived from ukraine to the european union. an important step for common management has been the solidarity platform which facilitates the exchange of information between member states and agencies. but we also need to make further progress on the migration pact. the united nations convention on the rights of the child, which the russian federation also ratified at the time, commits signatories to ensure the protection and care for the welfare of every child. to some, these human rights conventions may be a utopia, an unattainable ideal. they're not for me. for my group they are not. they are a guide for the world, to build a more advanced society, a project of peace, democracy and solidarity that proves that it is possible. i hope that one day the leaders in russia will understand this as well.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0230/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0243 - c4-0214/97). we wake up with it, we go to sleep with it. and first there were those images - those horrible images - of that maternity hospital in mariupol, and then, last weekend, yes, there were some crazy images of that massacre in bozsa. millions of mothers and children are on the run. and as a mother, but also as co-chair of the interfractional working group on the rights of the child, i want to take responsibility here. madam president, i should like to begin by thanking you. you have had the courage to go there, to show that europe is concerned about the situation. a very big thank you. thank you very much for being there, in the name of all of us, too. i am also very pleased that this sitting is mainly about ukraine. tomorrow we shall have the necessary debate on tightening sanctions, and today we shall have a debate which is very close to my heart, on the protection of children. in 2016, europol reported that 10 000 unaccompanied minors were missing in europe. now i have to tell you that heidi de pauw of child focus is coming out with figures in the belgian newspapers today: it says that since the beginning of the war in ukraine, 2 000 minors have gone missing. where are they? where are they? where are they? where are they? where are they? are we looking for them? it's our duty to look for them! it's our duty to find those children. we know. they are on the run, in another european country, in poland, hopefully somewhere safe. but unfortunately, i'm afraid some of them are dead. today ... gandhi said it: the strength of a society is measured by how it treats the weakest. ... well now, let's be strong. let's get them registered. - it's about time. we're actually already late. we need to register them, provide a guardian, provide child-friendly information, arrange for them to be placed in foster care, arrange for us to find the parents. it is our duty. now, we're going to beef up the hotlines. we have european instruments. let's strengthen it now. i just want to tell you something in english. maybe then you feel the passion for this debate that we have. if we were living in ukraine, if it were our children who were on the run, don't you want people to protect them? yes, i want, i have two children. let's protect the children. and i want to conclude by quoting the great woman, madeleine albright: the bottom line is that a person who flees his or her home (...) does not shed the right to be treated with dignity and respect.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, in wars, it may not be the children who are targeted, but it is the children who are killed. these are the chilling words of the french resistance fighter andré frossard, who recalled the cruelty of war, its violence, death and exile. for the youngest, more than a life in suspense, it is a stolen innocence, a constructed existence that breaks apart and violently collides with fear and the unknown that no child should ever know. children are thus the first victims of the atrocities committed by adults, and at least 158 children have already paid with their lives for these atrocities. this has got to stop. almost 2 million children have already fled the war, 60% of ukrainian children are internally displaced and millions of children still live in the country in the daily anguish of the conflict. the european union is taking its responsibilities. it has acted swiftly with the implementation of the temporary protection directive. it must ensure rapid protection and access to rights for all children and young people fleeing ukraine, without distinction. the most vulnerable must be protected, so that the horrors of war are not compounded by discrimination and threats to their dignity. the european union must also provide direct means to ensure that official transport crosses borders safely to states, to prevent trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of children, to facilitate the continuity of care they need, to offer increased protection to unaccompanied minors with the immediate appointment of a guardian, and also to facilitate family reunification. enabling these children and adolescents to look to the future, ensuring a life of dignity and allowing them to integrate, means giving them access to the child guarantee and european funds. it is to guarantee them automatic access to education, culture, health, psychological support, housing and reproductive and sexual rights. the reception organised today by citizens, associations, civil society and local authorities is exemplary. you are the face of a welcoming europe and once again make the europe of solidarity, which your actions and voices have called for for so many years, proud. it is now up to the member states and the european union to make the human and financial resources directly available to the associations, municipalities and citizens who show solidarity, on which not all solidarity efforts can be based. yes, what is being set up today in the european union for people fleeing the war in ukraine is proof of how well european solidarity works. what is being put in place today must be the common foundation on which european asylum and migration policy is to be built, a policy based on welcome and solidarity and marked by humanity. this is the call of a large majority in this parliament today, following work in cooperation with all the political groups. thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the youth of ukraine and for the youth of europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. mothers raped in front of their children, children raped in front of their parents. mothers taking their children and fleeing bombed-out ukraine to the nearest safe country. that country turned out to be poland, where over two and a half million people fled during those days. it was in poland that they found refuge, in polish guesthouses. it was poland that took in the war refugees. 160 000 children are already enrolled in the polish education system. it was poland that drafted a special law giving rights to health care, social care, education. we are calling for the creation of a fund to enable the costs of taking in war refugees to be financed in a simplified way. let me remind you, we have taken in two and a half million war refugees. what funds have been channelled from the european union? you're so moved, you say, "how terrible is this?" get to work! it's time to end the politics of appearances. tough sanctions are needed. in ukraine, we are dealing with genocide. the eu is imposing tough sanctions, while putin's barbaric army tramples on basic human rights. but against who? against russia? no, against poland, which has taken in two and a half million refugees. and poland is illegally blocking funds from kpo. we bow to the fate of a bleeding ukraine, but nothing happens, ladies and gentlemen, without a reason. do you remember the annexation of crimea by the putin regime in 2014 and the imposition of an arms embargo on russia? how many eu member states have broken them? and the sanctions that we have are as hollow as a sieve, they're nonexistent. so putin's barbarism is this: women are raped and then run over by russian barbarians, by putin's army of barbarians. we're watching the ukrainians die. and this, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a war that putin has waged on ukraine, but it is a war waged on the west. this is a war on the whole world. you're talking about human rights. they are broken because the sanctions are unfortunately false.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. because in wars, children and young people are usually vulnerable - all of them. and that is why it is right to include roma children, stateless children, young people such as students, but also particularly vulnerable people such as lgbtiq people and victims of violence. because butscha also clearly shows us that before killing people, aggressors do not ask for id. i therefore ask you to support our amendment so that we do not forget the children and young people who are still in detention in prisons and detention centres in ukraine - mostly third country nationals. children are children, no matter where they come from. and that is why i ask you to put an end to the double-talk in this house. because protecting people from ukraine, taking them in, protecting children in particular, is absolutely right. and i'm all for it too. but to let people rot in other forests on the border with belarus, that's absolutely wrong. and you have to say that. ladies and gentlemen, what we need is not racial prejudice or ideology, but empathy and selfless help. what a society really is good at is revealed in such times that freedom and equality are values that no one can do without. this is why the protection of all refugee children is necessary, including those at the eu's external borders. that's the only thing that's fair.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is founded on the belief that war on the european continent is a thing of the past. unfortunately, putin has destroyed all our hopes. the war waged by vladimir putin in ukraine has also been marked by attacks on civilians, innocent women and children. this war, with attacks on maternity wards, theatres and schools, is also an attack on our european values and a crime against humanity. the russian invasion of ukraine not only endangers the country and its people, but threatens the future of an entire generation. many of the refugees are children and particularly vulnerable. we must ensure that young people in our country are protected and have access to education so that they have a chance at a future, no matter where they have had to flee. otherwise, we risk a lost generation in the long run. the children need special protection from all forms of violence and abuse, and we must take special care of them. in particular, schools will play an important role in the physical, mental and spiritual health of ukrainian children who have had to leave their homeland. psychological support and a safe social environment - that's what traumatized children need now. it is our moral duty to do everything possible to protect children and young people and to do everything we can to give them a future without fear and with full prospects. that is why we need now rapid access to education systems at all levels, psychosocial support for traumatised children, care and protection for unaccompanied children and young people, including the stateless. and in doing so, the eu must also support the member states through our programmes such as erasmus, the youth guarantee and others. this should not just be a matter of our hearts, but it is our duty as human beings.
mr president, the war of aggression launched by the putin regime against ukraine is primarily directed towards ukrainian civilians, especially women and children. the brutal and criminal acts of putin’s war amount to ethnic cleansing and genocide. putin is seeking to expel ukrainians from their homeland, to seize their land and property. atrocious war crimes committed by russian soldiers increasingly threaten the security and livelihoods of ukrainian people. the russian aggressors seek to impede the evacuation of civilians, oftentimes by taking advantage of humanitarian corridors in order to force the resettlements of ukrainians to russia. the un refugee agency must facilitate the safe return of all ukrainian refugees. i sincerely do not understand and strongly question the agreements made by the head of the red cross, peter maurer, during his visit to moscow, to open refugee camps in russia. can we allow this de facto human trafficking? ukrainian refugees, especially children and young adults, should not become a lost generation, deprived of a happy childhood and the chance of an education. we must do everything we can to ensure the future of peaceful ukrainians caught up in putin’s war. it is also important that ukrainian children receive an education without losing their cultural identity and language. ukrainians are in need of safe refuge. we must now behave as europeans and welcome all of them into our family, into our union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the best way to protect ukrainian children and youth would be to adopt very tough sanctions at the european council this week on energy resources and not to feed the russian car the war machine. and of course we hope for that result, but a lot of young people, of course, have come to the european union countries -- some more, some less. and these challenges are already mentioned in terms of the threat of crime or the health issues that both the commissioner and my colleagues have talked about. i would like to talk about integration. this is a very sensitive issue for the integration of ukrainian youth and children in the countries to which they have come. why would you do that? because it is extremely important to maintain an educational, youth cultural space in the ukrainian environment. and it's not easy. and that would be the decisive factor. there are also countries in the european union, including my country, latvia, which still have state schools with russian language instruction. which means that if ukrainians were sent to these schools, then i think that would be a very bad outcome, because the narrative that comes out of these schools -- not just from the official programs, but also, of course, from the communication between young people -- is extremely dangerous for this generation of young ukrainians to end up in these countries and in these schools. it is therefore extremely important for them to maintain their national language education systems and, of course, to preserve their identity, in which a major role is to support the mayors of cities who can best use these funds, including european, not just national budgets, to support the best opportunities to create such educational opportunities. this includes the availability of ukrainian language teaching materials online from publishers such as ranok, which are used in all ukrainian youth training institutions, preserving their education, as most of these young people will return to ukraine after the war with good experience from the european union and education systems. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioners, please! soon, four million people have fled ukraine, from putin's cruelty and bombs. most of them are women and children. people in a refugee situation are extremely vulnerable, and this is especially true of women and children. we know that from all the refugee situations. our best chance of stopping the assaults is now, in the lobby, just as they're crossing the border. that is why we must put resources right there, so that they do not end up in the clutches of traffickers and those who try to exploit the situation of women and children. we know that it is the voluntary organizations, along with the humanitarian efforts of unhcr and unicef, that are doing the heavy lifting on the ground. that's where the support has to go, and to the local authorities that really make a difference. children should go to school. they need a roof over their heads. they should have the freedom to move, and it's our responsibility to make sure that happens. i would also like to say something specifically about the vulnerability of girls and young women to sexual exploitation. we see this in all refugee situations, and unfortunately, it's not information efforts at the border that will prevent this. no, it is we in the eu recipient countries who must ensure that we do not have a prostitution industry where women can be bought and sold, where we have pimps, pimps and entrepreneurs in a so-called sex industry who can exploit the vulnerability of women and young girls without any restrictions whatsoever. we have to do everything we can to stop this. this terrible situation, with millions of ukrainian children fleeing putin's bombs, also shines a spotlight on the structural racism of eu refugee policy. many of us are extremely happy and grateful that we are now opening up the eu with a concern for all ukrainian children who are fleeing. but we also know that we must do the same for all other children who run away. we're not going to lock children up in refugee camps in greece or in detention anywhere else. children need a roof over their heads. they're going to school. they're supposed to be free to roam. it's our responsibility to make sure that happens for every child.
mr. president, i have to ask you... children are the future, we are told, and we must pay particular attention to ensuring that they survive this difficult period of war as safely as possible. more than 4.8 million people have fled the war in ukraine. about half of these are children and adolescents, who need our special attention. it is important that these children are safe in the member states of the european union, that they are not harmed in any way. for the sake of stability, it is essential that children can return to nursery and school education, as this gives them a sense of security. hungary has already taken in more than 400,000 refugees and is doing everything possible to ensure that children fleeing the war are safe and receive the most possible help: medical treatment, special needs, psychological help, and access to the hungarian education system to continue their education, as well as an afternoon school in ukrainian at the eötvös loránd university in budapest. the european union must also pay increased attention to children in ukraine in order to help them, as their daily lives have also become precarious. due to the difficult economic situation in the country, families who remain in their homeland have also been in a very difficult situation, so it is very important to help them through various programs. i think it would be a great help if there was a programme whereby free meals in kindergartens and schools would be financed by the european union, to take the burden off the shoulders of the families. in transcarpathia, the westernmost region of ukraine, 380,000 internally displaced persons have arrived so far, including 36,500 children. among them are 700 who are orphans or whose parents have been deprived of custody. they're more vulnerable, and it's more important that they're protected. by promoting peace as soon as possible, we can do the most for children so that no child will have to suffer the horrors of war ever again.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: we have seen in the last few days in bosnia what these people have fled from and what a terrible fate awaits those who remain behind. those images will be burned into our retinas forever. 90% of the refugees are women and children, children who must be able to be children first and foremost, who must be able to play and go to school in freedom, and be free from the worries of war and violence. we've said it before here: it is heartwarming to see how across europe, organisations, volunteers and communities are standing by for these refugees, how young children are sharing their cuddles and toys with ukrainian peers, how empty strollers are standing by at stations for fleeing mothers with small children and how schools are doing everything possible to provide a warm environment for fleeing children. i am proud of the solidarity and compassion that europe is showing in these days. but action is needed to sustain that, because the challenge is great and will only get bigger. we must ensure that responsibility for the reception of refugees is shared across europe, that the budgets allocated are put to good use quickly and efficiently, that children have access to health care, psychosocial support and education. we need to protect vulnerable refugees from abuse and exploitation by criminal traffickers, who are always on the lookout to cynically profit from the misery of others. safe and secure border areas where initial reception and information provision is possible, where extra attention is given to the most vulnerable refugees and where proper registration of refugees is ensured so that no one is lost. as we take our children to school warm and well dressed and well fed, ukrainian mothers write emergency information on the backs of their children in case the parents do not survive. it's simply beyond words, so let's do everything in our power to make sure that these children can be children again.
president, the flemish interest has always defended the right of asylum as a fundamental human right, on two conditions: it must be about genuine war refugees and the reception must be in one's own region. according to the united nations, as a result of the terrible russian war of aggression, we can expect to see up to 12 million women, children and vulnerable people in need of help and protection in the coming week. there is a great will to solidarity and responsibility across all political parties and member states. we cannot be too frivolous about this. we cannot contain this humanitarian catastrophe if we continue with the current catastrophic asylum and migration policies. the figures from eurostat are clear. in recent years, more than five million asylum seekers have arrived in europe, mostly young single men from african, asian and arab countries. as many as two thirds of them were rejected. these were not genuine refugees fleeing war, but economic refugees who had no business being here. we can't help the whole world, so it's time to make choices and take action. it is time for realism and a rational asylum policy. that is why we must temporarily suspend the right to asylum in europe for people without ukrainian citizenship, so that we maximize the aid to those who need it most and who are most vulnerable: the ukrainian children. we must make room in our asylum centres by speeding up the processing of asylum seekers from outside europe and sending them back promptly. the figures show that the majority of the cases are of asylum fraudsters who are illegally occupying our reception facilities. we must give the maximum support to ukraine's immediate neighbours with european union funds. the same euro can help many more people in neighbouring countries than in densely populated areas such as flanders. poland and hungary - so often criticised in parliament - are already hosting three million asylum seekers. they embody our cherished european values like no other. we can't leave them behind. finally, we need to move structurally to a completely different model of asylum that is feasible, humane and sustainable. by definition, shelter must be in your own region. we must take in asians in asia, africans in africa and europeans in europe.
blue-card question. – mr rzońca, i have a very simple question to you. when you are mixing together the concept of the rule of law and the situation on the ground where poland has, admirably – i have all respect – taken in an incredible amount of refugees, when you are mixing these two things, do you have some legal grounds for that? and, if you do, can you please explain to this house what they are?
on behalf of the left group. madam president, russia's barbaric invasion of ukraine and the war force us to think outside the doctrine of 'business as usual' and on matters of peace. the european union must be a leader, not a pawn, in efforts to achieve a ceasefire. it is inconceivable that erdoğan should play this role of alleged peacemaker and that the european union should be virtually absent. we cannot be an economic giant but a political dwarf, because the european union and its peoples are suffering the tragic consequences of the negative economic consequences of this war. the european parliament, in its report on the stefanute, is therefore calling for a stronger impetus to be given to the implementation of what we have planned, and for the financial perspective to be amended and the community budget to be increased so that we can have resources to strengthen the social pillar. it is not just a label, because inequalities are growing. we need resources to finance the european health union and the green and digital transition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need resources for humanitarian aid to refugees. i would like to say to all the refugees, dear colleagues from poland. and to those who came to greece a few years ago and you refused to take one. not two meters and two scales. the same is true for gender equality. the european parliament must make a strong demand for a stronger community budget and for peace as soon as possible.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the main issue in the planning of the 2023 eu budget will be the additional expenditure related to the crisis in ukraine. how the eu budget can help the refugees from ukraine, the frontline countries hosting and supplying refugees, and how europe can contribute to - hopefully as soon as possible - post-war reconstruction. in the democratic elections held in hungary on sunday with a record turnout, the overwhelming majority of citizens reaffirmed the fidesz-kdnp government for four years and made a clear statement about the left and all those who withhold funds that are rightfully due to the hungarians. they also sent a strong message to the european commission to stop the further backtracking and immediately approve the recovery plans and programmes of hungary and poland in order to strengthen our own economies and increase our assistance to refugees and those in need.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the 2023 budget will necessarily be a budget of solidarity and cohesion. the financial resources needed for humanitarian aid and also for supporting ukrainian refugees must not be lacking. it is concrete action and it is solidarity in action. we must also help the european people, the families, who are also struggling with inflation and with rising prices. the protection of human life and the defence of human dignity are irrevocable principles which we must put into practice. in addition, and also for this purpose, we must support enterprises, and especially small and mediumsized enterprises. we can't lose our jobs and we have to have quality jobs. the objective of food, of food production, also requires support for farmers. but we cannot just be in the present, we must also work now, in the future. and if there is a lesson that we should learn from these crises, it is that we need more unity and more sharing: the unity of defence, energy, health, the defense also of food sovereignty that we need, the digital. together, i am convinced, we will succeed and overcome the challenges that lie ahead.
madam president, of course, the invasion of ukraine has serious budgetary implications affecting the 2023 budget and beyond. we need to be ready to support ukraine and also our citizens. our focus should be on the provision of humanitarian aid and assistance to the millions of refugees fleeing the war. we also need to ensure that our citizens will receive the necessary support in dealing with the overall economic and social consequences of the war, since the explosion of energy prices, higher inflation and lower growth will inevitably continue to push poverty upwards and fuel more inequality. what is also clear is that neither the flexibility of the current mff nor the next generation eu fund are sufficient to cover all the pressing needs. there is, therefore, a need to rethink our overall budgetary framework as it is dangerously reaching its limits. the dramatic situation in ukraine means that the union’s budget for 2023 cannot be business as usual.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i will focus first on what i believe is the most important factor that we are not estimating in relation to next year's budget. these are the consequences of russia's invasion of ukraine. they're multi-directional. we discussed this yesterday in the committee on budgets. this is about the impact on energy prices. they already account for 50% of inflation in the european union and are likely to increase as a result of this conflict. this is the price of agricultural commodities, especially grain. after all, ukraine was its leading exporter. the absence of these exports will affect this. finally, there are the consequences for refugees and the reconstruction of ukraine. the commissioner pointed out yesterday at a meeting of the committee on budgets that the commission will only react to such expenditure in neighbouring countries once the number of permanent refugees in the country concerned has been established. i want to inform you that yesterday 700,000 ukrainian refugees were registered in the pesel system in poland. what does that mean, "i'm not"? that these people have all the rights that poles have, except the right to vote, which means that they will permanently stay in poland. 50% of that number are children, 40% are their mothers. we therefore ask that this matter be included in next year's budget, since these costs will be borne next year as well.
madam president, commissioner, the crazy thing about this europe is that when it comes to finding money for war, we find it everywhere. when it comes to giving money, from the thune, to multinationals and banks, no problem: we never lack it. but when it's for the people, for the workers, then it's "quiet or cold". the bill is due: tranquillou bilou. unfair tax is the same: "easy or hard". but people don't come out of the water anymore, you have to realize that. but you don't realize that. how much do you make a month? what is that, 25 grand a month? the president of the european commission is paid eur 30 000 per month. thirty thousand euros! you screwed up. off the ground, totally. i think it is time to put you on your feet again, to cut your wages so that you understand a little bit of what workers are going through in europe today and to change your priorities fundamentally, because we can't take it anymore. (the speaker agrees to answer one question blue card )
the answer is 'blue card'. no wonder there are mps who worry about their own money. and i will tell you, mr president, it is very simple: since the beginning of my mandate i have been living on the average wage of a belgian worker. perhaps you should follow his example and vote for better texts. secondly, regarding your absolutely shameful insinuation, you know that we have nothing to do with putin. we're on the other side of the house. you should be ashamed of yourself for making such a suggestion.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, you know today my teenage daughter chose my outfit for me for this speech. she’s 14 years old. for her it’s just an outfit. but for me it’s a costume of freedom. women in afghanistan cannot dress like this – their legs out and their hair wild – or smile in public. when the taliban say that at age 11 girls can no longer go to school, we all know what this means for them. dear colleagues, we can trust the taliban as much as we can trust putin. they promise many things, but at the end of the day they marry off children. since these taliban took over afghanistan, the all—male interim government introduced a stream of policies that rolled back women rights that were achieved twenty years prior, that limit women and girls in their most basic rights and needs, such as the ability to work, the ability for girls to go to school beyond sixth grade, as well as their ability to travel inside or outside the country without a male chaperone. we are in 2022! but afghan women resist, afghan girls resist. they fight for their body and freedom, just like zelenskyy is fighting for ukraine, but with bare hands. by holding this debate today, we are telling each afghan woman and girl: ‘we see you’. this is what we must continue.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than 40 days and we all see that this massacre continues in ukraine. i'm from romania, we're on the border, next to poland, the republic of moldova. we don't know. the citizens of my country ask me: when does it stop? it can expand at any time. 500 million europeans are looking to world leaders, to you, the president of the european council, who is not here, waiting for solutions. and i think if we've tried these sanctions three times -- management says if you try three times and you don't succeed, you have to find other solutions. dear high commissioner, commissioner, you must try to make the sanctions very tough and drastic, and safe, and negotiate. of course, i don't like what the united states is doing. mr. biden is sitting out there somewhere saying that putin is crazy. and we have to let him go free if he's crazy? what does a doctor do when he has a lunatic in front of him? they try to stop him, negotiate with him, put restrictions on him and don't let him go free, to destroy. we are in enormous danger, because besides this massacre of people - and no one has the right to take a man's life but god - we are in danger as a planet, we are in danger as europe, from the point of view of poverty. people have been getting poorer and poorer. we must find solutions at the same time to bring the people of our states, the european members of the internal market, to live their lives. we romanians have opened the gates to refugees, but it's not enough. children have to go to school. we need to distribute funds, as my polish colleague said, so that we can really help them, not drive them into poverty in our states. we urgently need to negotiate to stop this massacre.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, my dear colleagues, high representative/vice-president josep borrell, my dear colleague, commissioner breton, i think that this debate was a true reflection of our shock and horror about the war crimes committed in bucha. war crimes committed in europe. war crimes committed in the 21st century. war crimes committed with barbarity, not seen on european soil since the second world war or srebrenica times. i fully share the condemnation of these crimes by this house, but i think that we should go even further. we, as a european union should solemnly declare that we will never forget the victims, that we will never stop pursuing the perpetrators and we will never accept any peace deal, which attempts to exonerate or pardon the war criminals. these criminals should know that for europe you are war criminals for the rest of your life. for europe, these war crimes are not pardonable, not now, not tomorrow, simply, never. because i share worries expressed by madame von cramon-taubadel, mr geier, madam szydło or mr belka – the worries about what we will discover in mariupol, in irpin and in mykolaiv. what kind of horrible crimes have been committed there? and to make sure that we pursue the perpetrators, we established a joint investigation team with ukraine to collect the evidence to investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity. and this is our proof that we will never forget. i fully understand the calls of honourable members to do more to help ukraine and to put even more pressure on russia. and i understand it. at the same time, we have to recognise that we can best help ukraine and fend off the aggressor if we are politically united and economically strong. unity, solidarity and economic strength are our strongest assets and instruments. in five weeks we adopted five packages of sanctions and they are biting. the russian economy is heavily suffering and the financial system is in turmoil. i also can tell you that russian oligarchs are being pursued. their assets have been seized. the european ‘freeze and seize’ taskforce, works, and it is fully operational. all that we did in less than five weeks. and i can tell you that the eu got a lot credit and praise for its leadership from the value- based world. and i think that the vice-president/high representative will tell you about the geopolitical strengthening of the european position because of this leadership. i agree with all the honourable members that we bear huge responsibility. therefore, we will continue to close the loopholes of our sanctions and increase the pressure on the aggressor. we are looking into further measures on how to dramatically reduce our dependency on russia and how to do it in a way that will continue to have the strong public support and the stellar unity we have now in europe. we will pursue all avenues to consolidate our energy security. we are working on energy efficiency. we will accelerate our green deal, but also we will work better with our gas storages. we will improve the infrastructure and i totally agree with all those who have been calling for finalising the infrastructure build-up and build, finally, the necessary interconnectors between the iberian peninsula and rest of the european union. we are putting energy diplomacy into a higher gear. we are setting up common projects of gas platforms so we can purchase the gas as a major global customer for a better price from diversified sources. and i’m very glad, too, that you are also referring to this in your draft resolution on which you will vote tomorrow. we are also working on the contingencies and on how to operationalise, repower and together with the commissioner breton, we are putting a lot of efforts into our strategic autonomy, be it in key technologies or critical raw materials. mr weber and mr moreno sánchez called for the beefing-up of our defence union, and i am sure that my colleague, josep borrell, will address this issue. but i can also inform you that by may, we are preparing the defence investment gaps which will then lead, i am sure, to the further plan how to beef-up our defence capabilities in europe. madam garcía pérez highlighted the need to start work on a special fund to rebuild ukraine and she is right. the costs will be enormous. we will help ukrainians to rebuild their homes, their apartments, to rebuild the industry and infrastructure. and i’m sure that europe will lead those efforts. but it also has to be a global task. and therefore, we will work together with our american partners, with the g-7, with the imf, world bank or international financial organisations. i am sure we will be ready for the talks, but first we have to stop the war. madam bonafè and mr picula highlighted that there is no easy way forward, that democracy has its costs, and the ukrainians are those who are paying the highest prices – and both that are absolutely right. we must be and we are, ready for tough decisions. and therefore, to conclude, i would like to thank all those honourable members who been calling for unity, solidarity and strong support for ukrainians. all these qualities will be needed not only to stop the war, but to rebuild a strong, prosperous, free and democratic ukraine.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, honourable members, this debate has been very meaningful. you can see the different positions, the political spectrum that is represented here, from the far left to the far right. the european people are represented here. i have to say, there are some positions that really shocked me. there are others with whom i agree completely. but a number of positions really surprised me because they show a lack of knowledge of the world, of how foreign policy is done and of what is happening in ukraine. let me continue in spanish. this is a parliamentary debate on the conclusions of the european council, in which meps analyse, evaluate and criticise the positions adopted by the heads of state and government in this body of the european council, which is the political governing body of the european union, and make suggestions in this respect. and i think that is the way to approach this debate: what do the members of parliament think of what the european council is proposing? the european council - i have the honour to take part in its debates as the union's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy - has said that we must continue to support ukraine militarily and that we must continue to put economic, financial, political and diplomatic pressure on russia. there is no absolute unanimity on this approach, because i have heard those who say that no, that we should not continue helping ukraine because that will prolong the war, and that what we should do is make peace. certainly, we all want to make peace, but peace will be made when it is made, and it will end by making "all wars end" in the framework of negotiations to which the parties will arrive with different positions of force. and we all know that diplomacy is used to end a war when the two sides are exhausted and can't continue it. or when one has no choice but to negotiate the discount. and as i said before, we want to end this war, but we don't want it to end anyways. we must preserve the territorial integrity, independence, sovereignty and recovery of ukraine. and for that, unfortunately, ukraine has to continue to defend itself. and for that, we have to keep helping her, because, if we don't, we can't keep defending ourselves. and so i think the european council has done the right thing in saying that we must continue to support ukraine militarily and i hope that the majority of this house supports this decision, although there have been voices from the extreme right to the extreme left who have not done so. some for a completely useless angelismo of believing that things are resolved with good words and others, probably, for tactical positions. each man for himself. others have said that we are not helping enough and that is probably a question we have to ask ourselves. can we help you more? yes, we can, but we can't enter into belligerency because we don't want to be a belligerent party in this war. we don't want the war to spread and that puts us in a difficult position of equilibrium to help without intervening. i understand that equilibrium is easy to criticize because it is precisely equilibrium. but certainly, señorías, we do not want this war to spread, to prolong, to affect more. and of course we do not want to intervene directly in it. i think that the majority of the house supports this position. but, without intervening, we can help and we can do it more, faster; we will. we still have the resources to continue funding the support. when they run out, the council will have to decide whether to contribute more. i have also heard criticisms of the pressure being put on russia, and many parliamentarians, many of you have asked for more to be done, particularly in the field of energy, which is certainly our achilles' heel, our vulnerable point, russia's wealth. the european union must, of course, draw lessons for the future and for immediate action. we've learned that the cheapest energy isn't what it seems. that the easiest energy is not the one that is closest. and the safest energy is not the one supplied by our less reliable countries. because, even if it is cheap when you buy it, if the one who sells it to you uses the money you pay to build a military capacity that later uses against you or against your friends and forces you to make a military expenditure to compensate this aggression, then that energy is no longer the cheapest, because to the cost of purchase you have to add the cost of precaution, and that is what we have happened with russia. because putin has built his military empire thanks to the energy sources he has sold us and has been doing so systematically for many years. when the soviet union collapsed, it was producing 12 million barrels a day. a few years later, its production had fallen to six million barrels a day. today it is back to 12 million barrels a day and its gas production has increased extraordinarily. that is why he has financed an army which he uses without scruple in syria, libya, the caucasus, africa and now in ukraine. and that forced us to make a military expenditure to face this threat. his energy is not cheap. his energy is going very expensive. the sooner we get rid of her, the better. and you have to do it fast, but knowing what it means to do it. because when a country has a very strong energy dependence, it cannot cancel it overnight. so, not overnight, not too slowly, using instruments that put pressure on the fiscal and financial type. i am sure that we will be debating this again at the foreign affairs council on monday and i can assure you that i will convey what i heard this morning here about ending dependence on russian oil and gas as soon as we can. i heard a spanish deputy mention guernica. i know. mariupol is the aleppo of europe or the guernica of ukraine: a city martyred and destroyed in acts that its crimes against the civilian population, war crimes. we'll take care of it. we'll do everything we can to help the ukrainians and put pressure on russia. we have to strengthen our unity, ladies and gentlemen. because this is the third asymmetric shock that europe is suffering. the first was of a financial and economic nature: the euro crisis. the second was the health crisis. this is the third shock that affects us differently from each other. on the eastern border, the refugees put more pressure on poland than on portugal, that's obvious. from the energy point of view, russian supplies put more pressure on germany than on spain. it is also evident because spain does not consume russian gas, hardly. it affects us differently. and when it affects us differently, that's when we have to show a unity based on solidarity; because, when it affects us all equally, there is no need for unity or solidarity. but when it affects us differently, that's when we have to be supportive. that is when we must build a unity based on the sharing of costs. this is the great task ahead of us: to build a unity based on a solidarity-based sharing of the costs involved in confronting the dangers that threaten us, burden sharing, the equitable sharing of the costs between countries and between citizens. because yes, i understand that asking someone who has no heating because they can't afford it to lower the temperature by one degree is sarcastic: they can't lower it because it's already at zero. but socially we can certainly make an effort to reduce the amount of electricity that is produced in each kilowatt hour. every unit of energy saved is also a way to help win this war. ladies and gentlemen, i will convey your concerns, your proposals, your criticisms to the european council through, of course, the filter that represents my interpretation of its positions. thanks to guy verhofstadt for the letter he sent me and which he represented to a large number of parliamentarians. i can assure you that i will convey it to the ministers on monday, as well as to the president of the european council at the next meeting of that institution. many thanks for your participation in the debate.
in writing. a complete ban on the purchase of russian gas. we have to stop funding the russian war machine. i don't understand those who say that giving up russian gas right now is completely impossible. is it absolutely impossible to start without russian gas even if russia stops selling natural gas to the european union? if that were to happen, would anyone be willing to ask you not to do it and say that we would stop supporting ukraine in return? that is unthinkable! in addition to the political pressure to give up russian gas, there is also strong economic pressure to give up russian gas. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions and bodies. the forecasts allow for a price increase of at least eur 150 by the turn of the year. gas consumers everywhere are looking for ways to switch to green energy, to district heating. yes, we're uncomfortable with the sudden withdrawal of russian gas. the temperature in our rooms will be lower, but for the ukrainians, stopping the financing of the russian war machine is an existential matter, a matter of life and death. i call on all to vote for the immediate termination of russian gas supplies.
in writing. this criminal war must end as soon as possible. the longer it lasts, the more innocent lives will be lost. i therefore urge an ambitious european diplomatic initiative for a rapid ceasefire. the european union is sending hundreds of millions of euros worth of arms, but has not even appointed a special representative. let alone suggesting a peace conference. ukraine and russia are negotiating directly, but where is the european mediation? why are turkey, israel, the vatican, the arab league and so on trying to do that, but europe is not? the people on the ground do not need more violence, no further escalation, but peace. silence the guns. we also table amendments for stricter and more targeted sanctions against the russian oligarchs. they support the war directly. through a global financial registry, we can prevent these billionaires from circumventing sanctions by moving their yacht to the maldives or temporarily transferring their wealth to a family member or friend. you refuse to do so because you fear that the hidden wealth of european billionaires will also be exposed. you prefer sanctions that hit the working class, in russia and in europe. but sanctioning the people does not end the wars of their leaders.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard our businessmen complain for ten years about the lack of data. our backlog of data access compared to the united states and china is indeed enormous. this is bad for our entrepreneurship, for research, for innovation, for our competitiveness, for our prosperity and for our european values. in this sense, the european union needs a data economy. this regulation is a step in the right direction. i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have contributed to this report. the eu must continue this momentum, respecting our privacy, but also without any hint of protectionism. in this sense, i welcome the new agreement in principle with the united states to achieve transatlantic data transfer. we need to establish a broad digital partnership with the united states. this will be of great importance for the growth of our smes, but with shared values and as a counterweight to china and russia.
mr president, certain parties have continued to flirt with putin's russia, even when it was clear that putin had already partially placed himself outside the international legal order with the annexation of crimea, the destabilisation of the donbas, the interference in the american elections and the poisoning of opponents. a party from my member state, the flemish interest, has been used to legitimize putin's dubious claims to eastern ukraine. he was the main organiser of the so-called 'russian spring' campaign in the crimea in 2014. they were not travelling at the expense of the osce, but were travelling on behalf and at the expense of the shadowy pro-russian ngo eurasian observatory for democracy and elections. my question is what links there are today between certain parties in europe and putin or the russians. do parties in europe get money? that needs to be investigated. but the spectrum of this debate could have been broader. we also see quite a few far-left organisations and parties doing some work on their attitude towards russia. it was also found that russian money was flowing to environmental groups and parties to stop the extraction of shale gas and to keep the eu dependent. i want the truth about this. the commission has work to do.
for decades we have been poisoning our environment, and therefore ourselves, with chemicals that will remain toxic for ever. we must rid ourselves of this polluting legacy. we have used very dangerous substances for far too long in fire retardants, anti-fouling coatings and post-its. i therefore welcome the commission and parliament's intention to set stricter standards for these substances. it is crucial that we ensure that our raw material streams, including recycled waste, are completely safe. however, much more action is needed. we know that many substances, including all pfas and new substances such as genx, are so dangerous and so persistent that they should be banned. the netherlands has proposed, together with a number of other countries, a european ban on these substances. i would therefore ask the commission to take action as soon as possible. finally, i believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, a sustainable environmental policy is one which is committed to a pollution-free environment and which always takes account of human health. but we are not there yet. we still have a tough marathon ahead of us. nevertheless, we can save ourselves a lot of headwinds by preventing toxic substances from getting a second life through the recycling process. the aim cannot be to expose people to harmful and often toxic chemicals again. we want and must protect both workers and consumers to the fullest. in particular, as we increasingly focus on recycling in the context of the circular economy, stricter rules are needed to limit and prevent exposure. the circular economy must also be free of toxins. the limits we are tightening today are a first step in the right direction in this respect. but this can and must be done more quickly. the regulation of harmful substances should no longer be dealt with by substance but by group. non-essential uses of substances which have been shown to be harmful should be irrevocably phased out. public health must always and resolutely indicate the direction of our legislation in these dossiers. in this case, this direction is more stringent.
a member of the commission. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you again, all of you. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs schmiedtbauer, again, because it is a rare occasion when a report on such a sensitive subject as organic farming is adopted almost unanimously. and i also want to express my satisfaction that this report is fully in line with the commission's approach to organic farming. we need organic farming as an important part of agriculture as such, of the whole food system, and that's why this comprehensive approach is important. so we're talking about consumer support, short supply chains, animal welfare, cooperation at all levels, because it has to be cooperation between farmers, processors and also the organic production distribution system, and also development, consumer support. organic farming is not in opposition to conventional farming. this is not a dispute between different types of farming. it's just an important part of the whole food system. when i visit the member states, i try to meet organic farmers too and i have a very positive experience. i'll tell you one, because this is the last one, from last week. i met an organic farmer who runs a small farm, 15 hectares, from estonia. this farmer produces vegetables and earns an annual income of eur 200 000 on this 15 hectares. it produces vegetables, has a small processing business which basically consists of cutting these vegetables and packing them. he sells them himself, he's already got a target audience. if he wanted to stay on those 15 acres as a conventional farmer, he wouldn't have a chance in competing with the much larger farms around. but as an organic farmer, he can survive the competition and support his entire family. so i think the value of organic farming is that, if you look at it from the farmer's point of view, it's a good deal for those farmers who have less or no chance in the conventional competition. and this is what we are trying to focus on in particular, working with member states on strategic plans at the moment. organic farming is an important element of the dialogue. we want to develop them, but not by force. i would stress again that this 25% target is not a target for farmers, nor is it a target directly binding on the member states. we want to encourage this kind of farming by means of incentives, by means of a good offer, but there is no compulsion. i think there's one thing that comes up in these talks with organic farmers (especially when we have this dramatic situation with the russian aggression on ukraine and the food security concerns that go along with it) and that is that organic farmers are not affected by the increase in fertilizer prices, they're not affected by the problems with crop protection. they're just more resilient in this situation. and that's another aspect we should consider. thank you again for a very interesting debate. the commission fully supports the report by mrs schmiedtbauer. i welcome this report and i think we are on the right track to develop organic farming in the right direction, without compromising food security, which is so important at this time.
in writing. today, the european parliament is voting on the action plan to develop organic production in the european union, which is based on two european strategies: 'from the farm to the table' and 'biodiversity'. at the moment, food prices are rising throughout the european union. for too many families, organic food remains totally unaffordable. at the same time, the incentives for farmers to switch to organic products are also decreasing. this is why the whole organic sector and the farmers who work in it must be supported. voting for this report which calls for more support and budget for the whole organic farming sector is essential! in this context, i would ask you to support the amendment which aims to increase the organic agricultural area in europe to 25% by 2030. my region, wallonia, is one of the european leaders in this field: the area of organic farming reaches 12%, which proves that it is possible to increase this type of production. i would also ask you to vote in favour of the amendment which proposes to provide organic food in schools, hospitals and nursing homes. thank you.
president, in 2020, the eu has not met its target of spending 3% of gdp on research and development. the recent figures on private investment are very alarming: the eu's share of the total population is around 80% in the us and china, compared with less than 5% in the eu. the strategic relevance of artificial intelligence (ai) cannot be denied. the eu therefore needs to show more ambition to boost ai and provide opportunities for european businesses. we need to attract talent to keep pace with the u.s. and china to prevent brain drain to the u.s. and to grow and unlock new technologies for our citizens and businesses. on behalf of geert bourgeois, who is the shadow rapporteur for this report, i would like to thank rapporteur voss for the good work he has done. we support efforts to establish a legal framework for safe, responsible, ethical and trustworthy ai. in doing so, we need to adopt a reasonable and proportionate approach that targets high-risk systems and enables us to remain true to our standards and reach our full potential. at present, too much eu funding is going to small, short-term and often overlapping projects. the eu should focus on the long term and on cooperation between member states and should make targeted investments in a number of strategic areas. the eu must not be too rigid in its regulations and must be aware of the need for international cooperation. the risk of bias and discrimination that ai brings must also be addressed. however, the emphasis has been on fundamental rights and regulations rather than the whole. finally, access to and sharing of data is crucial for the development of ai. the gdpr was adopted before ai was on the radar and currently creates too much uncertainty for companies because it is not progressive enough. we advocate a pragmatic and forward-looking no-nonsense approach, as we believe this will lead to growth, innovation and open strategic autonomy. too much regulation, too rigid, will deter companies and keep us from becoming a leader on the world stage.
for the greens/efa group mr president, is europol becoming the european nsa: illegal analysis of personal data, development of facial recognition, the dismissal of the european data protection supervisor, mass surveillance, the recording of political activists, cooperation with third states that spy on us? the reform of the european police cooperation agency, presented as a technical one, was proposed without an evaluation or impact assessment, while it considerably extends the agency's powers. the impact of europol's missions on fundamental rights is real, and it is our responsibility as legislators to protect them effectively. we have indeed secured the establishment of a fundamental rights officer and a consultative forum. these are positive developments, but they are far from sufficient to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of citizens in europe and elsewhere. in a democracy, democratic control of the activities of an agency in charge of police cooperation is indispensable. on this international press freedom day, to see my own country, belgium, drop 12 places in the reporters without borders ranking because journalists are subject to violence, including by the police, confirms to me that we are not treating security issues in the right way. ladies and gentlemen, i am firmly convinced that this reform is not the right one and that we certainly cannot take the risk that europol will fall into the same trap as the nsa.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we had high hopes for today's debate because the subject was the consequences for the european union. unfortunately, the president-in-office has not presented us with the consequences. i'm going to speak for a country that was on the front lines, romania. the citizens of romania ask me: they have been hospitable, generous, they have received refugees, and it is normal to be in solidarity. the problem is, what do romanians share? do they share the lowest incomes in the european union, do they share poverty with refugees? what's going on? what's going on? romania's budget is allocated, of course, to help refugees as well. but what does the european union do? has it provided concrete support to the member states, poland, romania, slovakia, slovenia, the czech republic, which have received the largest number of refugees? i'm not sure. what are the implications for the european union? the fact that economic growth is falling, the fact that smes are being crushed, the fact that smes are being decapitalised. isn't it time the commission reconsidered all the plans we had? sure, with ambition, with responsibility, but now we're in a different context. commissioner, if you ask a small entrepreneur, he changes his business plan when external factors influence. and the european union, and we have to change, because otherwise we will destroy the internal economy. all supply chains have been fractured. we have a strategy for re-industrialisation for nothing, we have plans on paper for nothing. if in concrete terms citizens are not helped, they become poorer and poorer and cannot increase their incomes, if companies, if small and medium-sized enterprises will not have a chance to recover from the double crisis, the pandemic crisis and now the war crisis. so i ask you on behalf of the romans, know they do not live, they do not warm, they do not feed on our thanks. they're waiting for concrete action. and i am waiting for you, commissioner, in your reply to tell us what you will do concretely to really lessen the consequences of the war on the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this terrible war, which has brought so much suffering and destruction, has now lasted 70 days. i think we really need to do everything we can to end this war as soon as possible. and so it is also necessary to increase the pressure on putin wherever possible. i very much welcome the sixth sanctions package. i think it is a big plus firstly, that sberbank is now also excluded from the swift payment system, and the oil embargo, as it is now envisaged, is, i believe, the right step. of course, we must consider the implications, the consequences, of this terrible situation in ukraine for us too; and i am with the previous speaker on this, to be honest. everyone is affected, we have price explosions without end, energy prices are rising, we have huge, galloping inflation, and we must also do and respond much more at european level, i think. the lives of our citizens throughout the european union must remain affordable. i think the member states have a great responsibility in this respect, and have already done a great deal: they have reduced vat, they have reduced taxes, they have given subsidies where necessary. i think that's really necessary in this crisis situation. i think we also need to rethink where we can restructure resources to support and help locally. and the european central bank also has an important role to play. so, price stability is the ecb's job, and it really needs to live up to its responsibility now and also turn the interest rate dial, as the fed did in the us. we must relieve our companies, our factories, and above all our healthy small and mediumsized enterprises, wherever we can relieve them. we have to ensure that security of supply is guaranteed - it has been raised - with a view to stabilizing our energy supply, raw materials, food. i think that is the right way to go about it and we must continue along that path. so please, commission, also look at our situation on the ground here in the european union.
mr president, the talk of solidarity and a united response to russian blackmail and the ambiguities of expediency cannot hide the sharp contradictions within the european union between governments. all the scenarios are dictated by the eu strategy of energy liberalisation, green transition, desalination and the trading of pollutants, which had driven up prices and energy poverty months before the war and served all the governments in greece. behind the greek government's feasts and the gas terminal in alexandroupolis, which is also a military base of the imperialist war, lies the replacement of russian gas by very expensive american liquefied natural gas, bringing great profits to greek shipping companies. all these plans and the successive sanctions imply a heavy accounting for the people and new profits for the monopolies, at a time when there is growing international concern among the european union and the international monetary fund about the imminent new turn in a capitalist crisis. the only way out is the popular struggle for substantial relief measures, the abolition of indirect taxes on the energy market, the immediate and full re-opening of lignite plants, with a lifting of sanctions against russia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. help quickly, and you'll help twice. that is why the european parliament's timetable for imposing sanctions is more ambitious than that of the council. i welcome the sixth package presented by the commission president today. but parliament feels that the oil embargo should also be introduced now. the commission should not be limited to the role of notifying the council's lowest common denominator. the commission and the european parliament could work together to push the council towards a more ambitious timetable. the sooner we turn off the faucet of the inhuman fascist regime in moscow, the sooner the chances of ending the war will increase. we should share the additional costs of the oil available on the world market. if the war continues longer, we have higher costs in arms supplies, in the provision of food for refugees, in the cost of reconstruction and in a deeper recession than the war, and we should also factor that into the overall picture. i think that the commission, together with the presidency, should also be very creative in helping all the member states to show that the time limit for the oil embargo has been shortened. there is plenty on the world market, as i said, but perhaps not every member state is in a position to take possession of these things. and that's why i'm hoping that we can definitely shorten the timetable. the demand of parliament, also from the last plenary session, is that the oil embargo should come now. then it's better to shorten the war, not wait until the fall. and by doing so, we're also helping our ukrainian friends who are fighting an existential battle here. i'm going to the slav ukrajini.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, minister klinkert, honourable members of the european parliament, many of you clearly stated that ‘those with the broadest shoulders should carry the biggest load.’ i think that was a quote from ms jongerius, but i very much felt the same attitude from most of the honourable members who intervened this morning. and i think that i am totally in agreement with ms de lange who said that ‘thanks to the support of this house, the eu is indeed a leading force in helping ukraine to defend itself and in making sure that russia pays an exorbitant political and economic price for this atrocious war’. our major leverage is our political european unity, which is forged in debates like this, but also our economic strength, which allows us to proceed with tough, unprecedented sanctions, which hurt aggressors more and more. today we proceed with the 6th package of sanctions, and i would like to thank you for your encouragement, for your support, because to quote mr garicano and mr gahler just a minute ago, ‘banning oil imports from russia seemed too difficult just a few weeks ago’. today we are proceeding. today we are doing just that and we make sure that it would proceed in a concerted way to have every single government on board. and, as you know, this is not an easy task, but we are working on this unity, and i am very encouraged by the support here in this house and by the discussions we have with our member states. i think mr marques has underscored in a very able way that political unity indeed is our major strength and economic power is our major leverage. several honourable members – mr fernández, mr schirdewan and many others – are rightly reminding us that our unprecedented sanctions affect our citizens and businesses in europe as well. and i want to reassure you that we in the commission are also very much concerned by the high energy prices and we are looking into all opportunities on how to tackle them and how to use all the possibilities we have at our disposal. and we will come up with some proposals and solutions under our repowereu plan, which we will present to you in the coming days. it will still be in this month in may. we are, of course, looking at other possibilities how to help economically and financially our member states and our citizens. mr belka and mr olbrycht have been asking the question: ‘is our budget fit for war?’ of course, it was prepared in different times, under different circumstances, but at the same time we have to act and we have to play with the cards we have through the budgetary means, which are at our disposal. and, therefore, i thought that i would bring some figures to you because through you i believe we can communicate directly also with our citizens and with our member states. so far, we have 22 out of 27 recovery plans in place and we have disbursed already eur 70 billion to our member states. we hope that in the coming days and weeks we will be able to reach the mark of eur 100 billion, which will be dispensed under our recovery plans. and as i’m sure you know – and the rapporteur knows these figures by heart – almost eur 180 billion, eur 177 billion precisely, is geared towards climate goals, which, of course, today are a purpose for making sure that we would lower our dependence on russia. we would increase the proportion of renewable energy in our systems and in that way, subsequently lower the prices. having mentioned all these figures, i also would like to underline that eur 220 billion of loans are still available. there is still this huge envelope, which we want to use, and we are exploring all the possibilities with the member states how to do that. and this goes into the direction of what ms niebler said that we have to repurpose, to redirect the means we have currently available. on top of this, as ms katainen was highlighting, we also identified eur 17 billion of post-pandemic cohesion funds, which are still produced. and we proceeded very quickly just to avoid the situation that this money, which is so badly needed, would be returned back to the member states. and we introduced the utmost flexibility on urgent needs to support exactly what ms garcía pérez and many others have been asking: how we can support the member states with the highest number of refugees like poland, czech republic, slovakia – and also many others with housing, with education, healthcare and childcare. just from the top of my head – we will be of course very happy to provide more precise figures – i think poland got more than eur 288 million from the eur 17 billion package. i mean, there was a quite significant sum going to slovakia, i’m sure too romania, but i understand that what we need here is a little bit more clarity and transparency and therefore they are going to prepare the table where we will see what is the overall fund, what are the disbursed amounts for each member states and what is still available so we can all work with the concrete figures to make it more user-friendly. thanks to elisa ferreira and my colleague, they established a one-stop-shop and a special task force, which can give advice to the member states on how they can repurpose and reuse their money. and i hope that this would make it much faster and easier to use for our member states. and i just want to pass this message also through you so that the member states are aware and are, i would say, ready to check what is available from the budgetary means we have. of course i totally agree with all of you that if it comes to the overall, let’s hope as soon as possible, post-war recovery for ukraine, i’m absolutely sure that europe will be a leading force and will lead the effort here as well, but is also very clear that these needs would be enormous. we are talking about hundreds of billions of euros and therefore we are already now approaching g7 member states, the imf, the world bank, different international financial institutions, because it will have to be indeed a collective effort. but i agree with all of you who underscored in this debate that there is no price tag if it comes to freedom, if it comes to liberty, if it comes to democracy. and i am absolutely sure that the ukrainian people, first and foremost, but also europe, will rise to the challenge to rebuild a free, democratic and prosperous ukraine.
president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this important and rich debate. on schengen, in reply to mrs garcía pérez, i would like to assure you that the french presidency will make every effort to contribute to the full functioning of the area without internal border controls. we also welcome the efforts of romania and bulgaria in assisting ukrainian refugees. on minimum wages, in reply to mr satouri, i can assure you of the french presidency's determination to reach an agreement with the european parliament. a trilogue will take place later this week. ladies and gentlemen, the european response to the humanitarian crisis caused by this war, and the scale and speed of the implementation of the various measures, demonstrate that our union is more united than ever. all member states, without exception, have shown great solidarity with the millions of people who have fled the conflict by actively participating at several levels in this common effort. of course, much remains to be done to limit the impact on our economies, labour markets and societies and to consolidate inclusive and sustainable growth. no one should feel left out in europe. let me stress our common determination, both institutions and member states, to support the most vulnerable and those most affected by the consequences of this conflict. the council, together with parliament and the commission, is ready to make its contribution to tackling these major challenges. i thank you again for this debate and thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession. the sitting was suspended for a few minutes and resumed at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. we want ukraine to win this war. after the war, we have to help rebuild ukraine. ukraine must be supported in every way. the customs duties on imports of ukrainian goods should be abolished. i support the sixth package of sanctions against russia presented by the european commission.
in writing. the vast majority of this parliament, of which i am not a member, called a month ago for an immediate gas and oil embargo against russia, without regard to its consequences for europeans. it is clear that such an embargo would have enormous economic and social consequences. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. while europe is debating a sixth package of sanctions, we hear from the russian opposition that the sanctions do not affect putin himself, and we see that the sanctions have not ended the war. meanwhile, europeans are sleeping in their cars because they fear the fuel costs of commuting. commuting has become a luxury. the working class in the eu seems to feel the sanctions more than putin does, paradoxically. at the same time, energy, arms and agro-multinationals are increasingly profitable. this has to stop. we must end this war quickly through a major diplomatic initiative. we must also protect the purchasing power of our working class. this is what people expect from the eu. no hollow rhetoric that helps no one and only escalates the situation.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam minister, mr european commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, at this may plenary, we are closing the 2020 discharge process that we started last september. and first of all, i want to thank the vast majority of the european institutions for their collaboration and for their work. the commission and parliament themselves, but also the agencies, the development funds and the institutions in general which are concerned by the discharge, have generally cooperated fully with the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament. i would also like to thank the court of auditors for its work in the discharge process. it is a rigorous and essential job to audit the accounts of each institution so that our parliament has all the relevant elements at its disposal to grant or refuse discharge. this year, as rapporteur for the european commission, i made it clear that i wanted to get a discharge focused on budgetary control recommendations, not on an endless list of political considerations. i think we have arrived at a very good result: a readable report that goes to the heart of the matter. it was a significant and intensive task, and it was made even more so by the exceptional nature of 2020: the pandemic and the emergence of a europe of health, the new multiannual budgetary framework and the european recovery plan to deal with the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic. the discharge process is neither a trivial gesture nor a formality. it is a major political act in the hands of the european parliament, which allows the management of funds, transparency, but also to punish abuses, ineffective policies or misuse of public money. this good management is essential to maintain the credibility, but also the legitimacy of our political project with the european taxpayers. every euro must be used efficiently and effectively. this is especially true when we are going through a series of crises. commissioner, as i have already said in committee, i have serious concerns about the union's budget. a significant error rate in areas such as competitiveness, cohesion and high-risk expenditure, a balance to be settled in excess of 300 billion, the absorption capacity of the member states, which often remains very problematic, and a lack of clarity on recovery and its timing. in the light of this, i am concerned about the next few years with the 1.8 trillion planned for the next multiannual financial framework and next generation eu, which was set up to enable member states to bounce back from the pandemic. finally, i can only encourage the commission, but also the states, to make it compulsory and widespread to use data mining tools such as arachne or edes, and to systematize the use of new technologies to organise controls and develop a database of all the beneficiaries of european funds in order to better fight fraud. the commission must therefore make progress in each of these areas. the coming years will be crucial for our european project, and this is a component of its credibility. the management of the health crisis and its economic impacts, respect for the rule of law, implementation of the green deal for europe, digital transition, research and innovation, the emergence of a europe of health are all topics on which we are expected to work and for which we must provide sufficient budgetary means to implement these essential policies. we can only be fully effective if we have a proper accounting and an optimal management of funds. every euro must be spent efficiently on promising projects or policies with significant leverage effects. our credibility and that of the european project will depend on our actions.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the revelations of the spying on human rights defenders, journalists, political opponents and lawyers by the governments of member states and third countries have prompted this parliament to set up a committee of inquiry to shed light on the pegasus case and other similar software. the day before our committee of inquiry began its work, we learned that our institution had been spied on by the surveillance of meps. before them there was the european commission and at least one of its commissioners and this week it was the turn of the spanish prime minister and his minister of defence. the silence in the ranks is deafening. through the eavesdropping of our catalan colleagues, all our communications and parliamentary work are threatened. the worm is in the fruit. no, this is not a purely national issue: european law has been violated. citizens all over europe have been spied on illegally, sometimes by their own government, sometimes by another state. the integrity and security of the european union, its institutions and its representatives are at stake. the commission and the council, which i regret not being with us at the moment, at the time of this debate, have already been more prompt to take swift action on security matters. i want to hear you strongly condemn these acts of espionage. i want to hear you say that investigations are under way and that the breach of parliamentary immunity is a red line. no, the hearing of parliamentarians, political opponents, journalists, lawyers or human rights defenders is not a matter of national security only, in a europe driven by democratic values, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. on the occasion of the international day of press freedom yesterday, journalists denounced a new normal which they must take into account: a new normal, where this type of espionage in the exercise of their profession is legion. well, no, this kind of espionage can't be a new reality that we have to deal with. we have to legislate. the response to threats to our security must be strong: trade sanctions, revision of judicial and police cooperation agreements, strict enforcement of the eprivacy regulation and the dual-use regulation, the due diligence directive for european companies, and so on. the tools are at our disposal, but they are nothing without a very strong political will. i expect all political groups to lift the taboos. our inquiry committee will have to provide the answers you do not give. it will have to establish responsibility, provide victims with remedies and reparations, ensure that sanctions are taken against offenders and lead to bans of these tools. the debate today is important. we expect parliament, through the voice of our president, to be firm in protecting its own members, to recall the principle of parliamentary immunity and to condemn the spying on its members. and the message must be clear: this type of interference is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. our house must ensure the safety of all its members and also its staff. it should be noted that some of the participants were also targeted by these wiretaps. an attack on one of us is an attack on all of us. in addition to setting up our committee of inquiry, may this parliament make a strong gesture by calling on the european commission and the council to clearly denounce the illegal use of this type of spyware, to open investigations and ensure transparency, but also to cooperate as much as possible with our committee of inquiry. because, i repeat, it is not just parliamentarians who are concerned, but all citizens and the european institutions.
mr. chairman, can you imagine? you sit at home and strangers come and sit with you. they're watching you, they're listening to all your conversations at all times. that's how pegasus works, i read. i find that very scary, creepy. for months, we've seen one pegasus revelation after another pass by. government leaders, journalists and activists: no one seems safe. at the same time, we know very little. - by who? to what end? what are the consequences? these questions are still barely answered. the pegasus spy software also asks us a different kind of question: how can we use technology to reconcile the need for knowledge and information with the vulnerability of our projects and freedoms? freedom of the press is something we must cherish and protect. the elected representatives of the people must be able to exercise their democratic mandate freely. but technology can indeed be used for freedom. it then needs democratic control and embedded in the rule of law. we also want to answer these questions in the committee of inquiry, to which i will be fully committed as a member. all i know is i don't know anything. that's what the greek philosopher socrates would have said. by asking questions, looking at the facts, and thinking, one comes to wisdom. that's how we work.
mr president, i wonder if we should not resume our debate, since the council is now honouring us with its presence and we would have liked it to take part in all our debates, since many questions are being put to it.
mr. president, i'd like to begin by quoting hillary clinton: women are always the first victims of war. they lose their husbands, their fathers, their sons in battle. and i'll add something to this: they also often lose their dignity. and the women's council is spelling it correctly. armed conflict is no longer a matter of armies fighting far from the civilian population. women and children account for as much as 70% of civilian casualties. this is no coincidence. rape and other sexual barbarity are systematically used as weapons of war. in addition, millions of ukrainian women and children have also fled to europe. both inside and outside the conflict zone, they are at increased risk of falling into the hands of rogue individuals and organisations. to protect their human dignity, we need to move much faster, including an action plan to prevent and combat crime, more specialized health and trauma care for abused women and girls, a coordinated approach to unaccompanied minors, and special attention to the brave women in the ukrainian military who must survive in captivity today. we demand strict supervision of compliance with the international conventions on the law of war. and it was our parliament president roberta metsola who was the first leader to visit ukraine. perhaps it is time and i agree that we take un resolution 1325 out of the dust, so that more women are involved in peace negotiations. often they turn out to be the game changers in gruesome wars.
in writing. when an agreement was reached on a global minimum rate of 15% for multinationals, it was undeniably a breakthrough in the fight against tax havens and tax avoidance by large corporations. it should be remembered that the european union had defended a rate of just 12.5% at the g7. what a scandal! europe has truly acted as an ambassador for big business. even the us government - not exactly a nest of leftists - had proposed a 21% global rate. the end result is far from perfect. this 15% rate is far below the corporate tax rate in many european countries. yet since the neoliberal turn of the 1980s, this rate has already been eroded by neoliberal policies across europe. in belgium, the rate was previously 48%. for the highest profits, it was even over 50%. today, many european countries, including belgium, apply a rate of just 25%. but that is still far more than the proposed 15%. in addition, all tax niches allow multinationals across europe to circumvent, avoid or even escape tax. there's still work to be done. tax the rich.
madam president, i would like to return once again to the conference on the future of europe, the outcome of which was presented by the leaders of the european union with great pomp on europe day, 9 may. i would like to say that the conference has completely failed in its aims and objectives. as in the past, the convention became a pre-planned euro-federalist exercise, where carefully selected representatives created a perfect 'potemkin village' with the sole aim of further transferring powers to the european level and centralising them in brussels. our parliamentary group, the ecr, left the conference before it was even concluded and we will be the main opponents of the conclusions of the conference, whether it be the creation of pan-european lists of candidates, the extension of majority voting in the council or a legislative initiative for the european parliament.
mr president, every time the european parliament meets, we talk about human rights, we vote resolutions, often with sanctions. russia, of course, china, belarus, and so on. but what strikes me is that since i have been a member of the european parliament, we have not voted a single resolution condemning israel. not once a resolution for sanctions against israel. even now, after the murder of that palestinian journalist, the attack on the funeral, the seizure of palestinian homes by israeli settlers, the imprisonment of children: even then, no traditional group is calling for sanctions against israel. that's taboo around here, dealing with israel. this is a very serious matter, and i am sure that the european union will not be able to accept it. that is totally unbelievable, because then we say that if a country does not do what we want, then we will complain about human rights, about democracy. but if a country does what we want, if a country follows us blindly and serves our geopolitical interests, then we remain silent and that country can do anything it wants. that's not defending human rights, that's abusing human rights for our own geopolitical agenda. and that is unacceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have asked for this debate because i want to get an answer to a very important question, and that is the following. it's to the commission, and i want a straight answer: yes or no. are there any countries, public and private companies in the european union that buy and pay for russian gas under the scheme that gazprom has proposed? that's all i want to hear from you, nothing else. - yes or no? is there or isn't there? because if there is, it will be a whirlwind of hypocrisy and duplicity in the european commission, the union and parliament once again. while we're talking about sanctions and how we should fight the bad guys and fight them, someone is making a separate agreement because he's more concerned about his economy and doesn't care about anyone else. gazprom has categorically violated the contract with bulgaria, which was absolutely legal. he violated it illegally with bulgaria and poland, and stopped the shipment of already paid quantity. yes, it's an addiction and it's aggression, but it's solved by common action, and it's not solved when someone separately buys gas and pays in rubles. that's what i want you to answer me for. and to you, colleagues, a final conclusion. this crisis has taught us this. it is time to end the utopias, the ideologizing of the so-called green deal that drives up prices. because you, in this room, are raising prices when there is a constant push for utopian crazy ideas to reduce the production of electricity from normal sources. and what we need to do is turn to nuclear energy, to our own resources, to conventional gas, to shale gas, everything we have to have a normal economy, and not to be dependent on hostile third countries, on the one hand, or green utopias.
mr president, commissioner, a grand european plan for energy, and who is being forgotten? the workers. again, not a strong measure to bring down prices not a strong measure! no major price freeze, no lifting of minimum excise duties or vat... no, nothing. on the contrary, you even say that your policy will raise energy prices even further. but it's not possible, the workers can't take it anymore. why would you do that? because you say you don't want to fund the russian war in ukraine anymore. ok, but you don't mind financing the israeli occupation of palestine by buying israeli gas or financing the saudi war in yemen by buying saudi oil? it's not a policy. you're sacrificing the working class for geopolitical ends. and you're sacrificing the climate. you've decided to release millions of tons of co2 as part of the carbon market. this means sacrificing both social and climate. in what name? with what result? it's time to change course. we really need to invest massively and publicly in renewables, or we won't get there. in addition, prices must be kept at their pre-crisis levels.
mr president, executive vice-president timmermans, dear chrysoula, it is an imminent need to speed up the transformation of our economy in the eu. it is also the time to seriously enhance our strategic autonomy. at this period of time we need also to provide to the market the proper stability and predictability with the legislation at stake. in that sense, starting with ets, on which the rapporteur peter liese did a great job, it is important to underline that now we make a significant step forward by having the maritime sector on board with particular funding and support to achieve innovation and a willing transformation in the next period of time. as far as the social climate fund is concerned, i fully support esther de lange and david casa’s proposal to support the population in need without adding burden to the households as the energy crisis is up and running. regarding to cbam, i would like to be clear: we need this too. we need this mechanism in relation to the carbon prices without jeopardising the competitiveness of the sectors involved. for that reason, i fully support the establishment of cbam, as well as realistic implementation when it comes to the phase—out of free allocations, combined with realistic solutions for ecs. dear colleagues, tomorrow we vote and we have to take the responsibilities. our own ones. dear colleagues, the fit for 55 package is an updated, more coherent package that sticks to the von der leyen coalition. we need to show to our citizens who struggle today with the energy crisis that we send a clear message to all these who are abiding with eu values and that we bring solutions to raised problems while we stand united toward the achievement of europe’s strategic objectives.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, ensuring fair, smart and effective decarbonisation is an existential challenge for humanity, for the european union and for all of us. the choice we face is a structural one and will shape our collective future for many decades to come. it is an opportunity for the european union to strengthen its commitment to combating climate change by ensuring, through concrete and wide-ranging measures, a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions of at least 55% by 2030. the integrated and progressive implementation of these measures is also a way to boost the modernisation of european society and the economy and to consolidate the union's leadership in the energy and digital transition. as the socialists and democrats' shadow rapporteur on the negotiation of the itre border carbon adjustment mechanism, i consider it essential that this mechanism fulfils its role of promoting and supporting the decarbonisation agenda of european industry, while encouraging transformation and innovation dynamics that lead it to higher levels of sustainability and competitiveness. it will also encourage the adoption of good environmental practices in other parts of the world, thus contributing to a positive partnership on behalf of common objectives. these are not easy goals, but they are possible. this requires, in addition to a reasonable timetable for implementation and selective support for exports where justified and in line with wto law, strong monitoring and ongoing alignment of measures with the technological maturity necessary to make them viable. we have room to approve solutions in this respect and that is what we must now focus on.
a uachtaráin, the climate law is set in stone: the end point of the green transition – 2050 for climate neutrality. we have the finish line and tomorrow we get the opportunity to decide, in part, how we run the race. europe is and should be a climate leader. however, it is a fine balance. we want and need more ambition in decarbonising our economy, but not at the expense of severe loss of competitiveness. if we overburden ourselves, that will be a net negative consequence for the climate, as we will have less ability to pay for the technologies needed for the transition. the war has changed everything, and we have rightly accelerated our actions. investment in renewables stays in europe, but we need to keep a holistic approach and ensure we have the capacity. this means more emphasis on skills, especially in the building renovation sector, clear regulatory signals, including fixing the problematic planning and permitting procedures so we can get green technologies actually deployed. and of course the proper investment. in essence, the transition only comes with good timing and appropriate incentives. i fully support the targets for 2030 to transition to climate neutrality, and i believe this can only be successfully achieved if based on pragmatism.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. you have told us well here today that we want more jobs in industry. i think that is a great start, because we need europe to work and we need a sustainable transition to a climate neutral europe. the whole package will be voted on in this parliament tomorrow, but it is already clear that there will be strong support for the continuation of the ets. we need a price on coal. we need investment security for new industrial investment in europe and we can do this because we are finally getting the carbon levy mechanism in place. the coal mechanism will no longer allow europe to turn a blind eye to the fact that we use steel produced elsewhere and do not look at its emissions here. however, i am concerned that the cbam coal mechanism has not yet provided a solution for exports. parliament is also coming up with export-related solutions. i want to encourage parliament's negotiators to the final outcome, whatever form it takes in the votes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'closed loop' to cover the whole of the european union. i wish you a successful negotiation.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is an open door policy to say that we are going to vote on a historic package of measures this week. to continue on the path to a climate-neutral continent, we must be ambitious and social. a more comprehensive emissions trading system, a carbon tax on our european external border and climate neutral vehicles. and in belgium we are setting our ambition for the latter even higher. but, ladies and gentlemen, we must also consider the reality. many families have difficulty getting enough electricity to power their homes. exorbitant increases in energy prices, the effects of the war in ukraine and higher post-corona prices are hitting low-income and lower middle-income earners the hardest. climate transition should be for everyone, not just those who can afford it. after all, not everyone has the financial space to renovate a home, or to invest in an electric car. that is why the social climate fund is so important. because, colleagues, the climate transition will be social or it will not be.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the climate challenge is also a social and democratic challenge. democratic because if we leave a whole range of people on the sidelines, whether they are the weakest in our society, those who don't have the means somewhere to commit to climate through a whole range of measures and investments, we will miss this goal, both climate and democratically. the social climate fund must therefore be greatly, greatly increased to meet these needs, and so that every european citizen can play a part in this climate issue. no one can be left on the side of the road. the same applies to the utcatf sector in particular, and, in relation to this sector which is obviously essential to ensure that co2 absorption, soils, all forestry and also agriculture can participate , we must also support private owners, encourage them to actually enter this dynamic to achieve the set objectives, which are extremely ambitious. i would add that public authorities - particularly in the forestry sector, with about 41% of public european forests, or 20 million hectares, at european level - must lead by example. to set an example in terms of investment, planting, combating global warming and supporting the various private owners.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to use the time allotted to me to talk about an issue that i feel very passionately about. to start with a confession, i am a petrol head. i love cars, i’ve always loved cars, i’ve been repairing and restoring cars since my teenage years. and i still remember every car my dad ever owned and i could even draw it for you. that’s how i was raised. and until today, i still love cars and i love my motorbike. but i also know this love needs to change. i need to go from being a petrol head to becoming a battery head. and i can also say that the fun will not diminish, because the electric cars we see are fun to drive, they’re exciting to drive, they’re also clean, their technology is exciting to follow and europe has finally stepped up to the plate. and europe is now more and more capable to build cars that can compete with the american cars, with the asian cars, even though europe was very late coming to the party. and that is something we can reproach our car industry. bit too much hubris, believing that we would make ever more efficient combustion-engine cars and that would save the day, and now we understand the world has moved on. and i don’t think that by prolonging the change to electric mobility, by leaving a loophole in the legislation so that not a complete ban on emission cars by 2035, but leaving there an opportunity to still build them is not helping the car industry at all. and it certainly is not helping the consumers. if you want our car industry to move faster, to produce affordable electric cars for everyone, you have to make sure they will concentrate everything they do on that. if you want, because then they say: ‘well, it’s not just about the car manufacturers, it’s about this whole ecosystem of suppliers that are part of that’. how are you going to help a supplier who supplies elements for combustion engines? by forcing them to continue to supply those elements in ever decreasing quantities, because that will be the reality. so what you will see, if you choose the so—called 90% option, you will slow down the decrease of prices and the technological development of electric cars. and you will force manufacturers to continue to produce ever-decreasing numbers of combustion engines that will become ever more expensive. that’s an economic logic. it’s a matter of scale. so who are you doing a favour here? no one. and just slowing down technological development is a bad choice. we see it in every industrial revolution. the longer you take to make a change that is inevitable, the more it will cost. it will cost them more money, it will cost more social pain, it will create an illusion. and you chain people to a past that has no future. this is not helping the european car industry at all. and i’m not even speaking about the absolute, absolute certainty that the fuel you think could power these clean combustion engine cars is so much more expensive per kilometre driven than electricity. not just a bit more expensive. no, three, four, five, six times more expensive. if you at least also incorporate in your analysis our plans on rooftop solar, our plans on offshore wind, our plans on creating much, much more opportunity for renewable energy. so don’t deprive european citizens of the possibility to drive a clean, exciting, affordable electric car made in europe. and they say, well, everything has to come from china. nonsense. look at what’s happening in our battery strategy, that’s moving fast forward. we’re becoming fast the first producers of batteries in the future. and these are sustainable batteries, recyclable batteries. look at what we’re doing with solid state batteries, lighter batteries, batteries with more range. look at the plans we have to create a charging infrastructure. this is all very exciting stuff. don’t chain us to the past, for heaven’s sake. don’t chain an industry to the past that needs clarity and not loopholes to do what it needs to do to provide affordable mobility to all europeans. this is, i believe, an essential choice. and i implore you: do the right thing tomorrow. don’t come with a wishy-washy solution that actually helps no one. it gives a bit of comfort – ‘yeah, we gave them a bit more time’ – but it’s not going to help them because then they will have to start building components for the new technology and then still building ever-decreasing numbers of components for the old technology, which will be so expensive. one problem that our battery alliance has is, can we get enough people to work in this industry? that’s our main challenge. so don’t tell me that so many jobs will be lost because of this transition. the jobs will change. our responsibility is to make sure that the people are able to take these new jobs. but there’s no need for anyone to be unemployed thanks to these new and exciting technologies. and since we are the best car-makers in the world, believe this petrol head, since we are the best car-makers in the world, our industry, if we embrace these opportunities, will dictate the future. who knows in this room that poland already today is the biggest producer of electric buses? who knows that? that’s embracing a new technology, that’s embracing the future. that’s the reason why i believe you need to vote for our proposal tomorrow.
president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for this rich discussion, which i have followed with attention and interest and which shows the willingness of parliament to engage in a substantive debate on the proposals. some of you have cited the paris climate agreement, which sets an ambition and an imperative for us to keep the average global temperature rise over this century well below two degrees celsius. the annual un climate change meeting in bonn began yesterday with the aim of preparing for the cop 27 in sharm el-sheikh, and the european union is once again demonstrating its ability to tackle the most complex political issues through this debate. the strengthening of international cooperation in the field of carbon pricing, for example through the establishment of a climate club alongside the border carbon adjustment mechanism, or carbon pricing policies could be discussed and encouraged. as president of the council, i can confirm our determination to go even further by striking the right balance between protecting the climate and protecting our societies, particularly in economic matters. what is at stake here, through the texts you are going to vote on and negotiate in a few weeks, what is at stake here and now, is safeguarding our future. and the way in which the european union will shape our common future is being decided today in this parliament. you have also mentioned the texts on land use on several occasions. we need to protect our biodiversity and improve our carbon sequestration through carbon sinks. and of course, we need to invest massively to make the energy transition and reduce our carbon footprint. this requires electric vehicles, of course, and a revision of the standards in this sector, which we will have to negotiate. i want to make it clear here, at the end of this debate, that the energy transition is necessary and should not be seen as a constraint. on the contrary, it is an opportunity and an opportunity to invest and innovate within europe. our researchers, our companies are already doing this. we must be and we will be at the rendezvous. many of you have mentioned the importance of energy sovereignty. the war in ukraine has been a revelation of our dependence. the french presidency has worked and continues to work tirelessly for our energy independence and to make the european union more climate-aware. the council is therefore looking forward to the outcome of the forthcoming vote in parliament and we welcome the prospect of negotiations in the trilogues when the time comes.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. when the fuel is burned in a car's internal combustion engine, the nitrogen in the air and, unfortunately, the sulphur in the fuel, are oxidized at high temperatures. in the air, the oxides form the corresponding acids. the pollution load is particularly high in urban environments. both oxides and acids are harmful to human health. there's a strong correlation between airborne transmission and stillbirth and fetal malformations. therefore, the pollution load from cars should be minimised. administrative interference with the functioning of the market should be kept to a minimum, but at the same time be limited to the extent necessary. i think it is very necessary to encourage the use of electric cars, especially in urban environments with high pollution levels. at the same time, the pollution load dissipates on the roads with little traffic and poses no danger to human health. i have mixed feelings about the ban on the introduction of new cars with internal combustion engines from 2035. the rigid ban will end the development of internal combustion engines much earlier and european manufacturers will no longer be able to compete with other manufacturers. the commission considers that the aid is necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the objective of common interest.
in writing. today we are voting on the commission's proposal to reduce co2 emissions from cars and vans to reach 100% of the zero-emission fleet by 2035, in other words to 'go all-electric' by then. i'm against it for three reasons. this is an environmental mistake because it does not allow other technologies to develop and because the entire battery production cycle would not be taken into account in the co2 calculation. it's a social mistake: i'm not sure that the electric car (ev) will be affordable for everyone in 2035. the gap between the richest and the poorest should not be widened any further. nor is it to increase the gap between the urban and rural population, which is more isolated than ever and lacks infrastructure (charging points). it's a mistake in terms of our strategic autonomy: 90% of lithium is refined in china. i do not want the eu to put its future partly in the hands of the chinese. europe can find its own technological solutions!
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i have just heard you say that supporting the state of self-defence in ukraine from the free world would prolong the war unnecessarily. the question which follows you, mr president, is: what outcome of the war and what scenario after the war do you want? what's your idea?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you say that the africans have not understood anything, that the indians are picking up the pieces and that the chinese are not even talking about it! what you want to vote for is a text that, in fact, infantilizes half the world. you see that a lot of the world doesn't agree with european policy on ukraine and russia, and you say you're going to explain to them that the russian war in ukraine is really serious. no, but... explain... as if they were children. no, they got it. it's just that there are some things they don't agree on. they blame you for your lack of diplomatic efforts to stop the war, they blame you for the negative impact of sanctions on workers all over the world, and finally they blame europe for "double standards". when russia attacks ukraine, europe is obviously sanctioning. but when the united states bombs iraq, no sanctions, when saudi arabia bombs yemen, no sanctions, when we ourselves, the european union, bomb and destroy libya, no sanctions, and when israel colonizes palestine, no sanctions. it's two weights, two measures. for this hypocrisy, the nations of the world reproach you. if you want their support, just listen to them. that would be an alternative.
a uachtaráin, president ursula was right when she said putin’s war of aggression is what fuels the food crisis. on top of that, there’s the vile destruction of the infrastructure of ukraine, the killing of its citizens and the raping of its women. while all this is going on, we have the president of the rotating council, macron, talking about ‘we mustn’t humiliate putin’. who is doing the humiliating? why is he so concerned? what does this actually mean? he has to be asked these questions. does it mean that ukraine is supposed to hand over half his territory to putin so that he can claim he wins the war? otherwise, he’s humiliated by losing the war. how would he like it if somebody invaded france and we started talking about ‘we mustn’t humiliate the aggressor’, so part of france should be handed over to the aggressor? i think now is the time, and particularly at the next council meeting, to ask mr macron what he means by this and why he is saying this now when the lives of ukrainians are being destroyed every single day.
mr president, as my colleague johan van overtveldt writes today in politico, we have to be prepared for the reconstruction of ukraine. so this will provoke a very, very huge cost. vice-president dombrovskis argued for the aggressor—pays principle. my question is, is there a decision on this principle? i agree with him. is it possible to use the confiscated money – around usd 600 billion – and is there a legal fundament for it?
president. - i shall put a question to the president of the european council, mr charles michel, and to the president of the european commission, mrs von der leyen. prices are skyrocketing. people can't pay their bills anymore. food, yes, but electricity, too. and since october, you've been playing ping-pong between the different institutions about who's going to block the prices when, because that's what the people want. people say , those prices are too high. in october the commission said to the member states: you could block the prices. then there's a summit in versailles of all the heads of government and they throw the ball back to the commission, saying: make a suggestion! the commission is playing the game again: you could do something about those prices. when are you gonna lock those prices down? when is that going to happen? people are waiting for it. when it comes to helping multinationals, it's always quick. but for the humans , it 's waiting ... ping pong, ping pong, ping pong! what are you doing? i'd like an answer to that right now.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i hope you can hear me. i would like to say that in this house of democracy, please refer to people by their group name, do not look at this side of the parliament and call us ‘far right’. i am not a far-right politician! i agree with ms iratxe that we need to find coherent agreement, that’s why we’re here, do not call me far right, do not call us far right. it is respect. this is also for you, mr weber. i like you very much, but please don’t do this any more. and your colleague, please, ms aubry. we have names.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question we are discussing today, namely how our continent can and should attract talent and expertise, is too serious - let me say this - to be the subject of political exploitation. and there are colleagues in this house who recently argued - i could not believe my ears - that obviously talent and expertise can only be found in one part of the world, their own obviously. i'm sorry to disappoint you, but it's not. i am sorry to disappoint you, but the world is full of talent, of competence, of women and men who have been trained, often at great cost, but who can help us to make our europe better. i would like to thank the commission, because this proposal will certainly bear fruit, it will enrich us and the countries of north africa by creating important synergies. but let me say, commissioner, we must also take into account that most of the people who come, who want to reach our countries, do so because they are fleeing from dire situations, from wars, from famine. and we cannot forget that, we cannot turn the other way. so we need to approach the issue of immigration in a holistic way, with the complexity that deserves a serious issue like the one we're talking about today.
mr president, mr vice-president, the european commission's communication and the resolutions of this parliament represent the right approach to managing migration flows by giving priority to the creation of new channels of legal immigration. and whether the far right likes it or not, migration is a natural, positive, necessary and necessary phenomenon. this is a double necessity, justified by the ageing of the european population and by the shortage of workers in many sectors. but their inclusion in our societies is also a cultural, social and political enrichment, as has been shown during the pandemic, and as you, mr vice-president, have recalled. with workers who may come from north africa, but also from other countries, including canada and the united states. last year we took a first step with the approval of the blue card reform; but we need to extend this opportunity to all skill levels and simplify the rest of the legal immigration tools we already have, such as the single permit directive. and lastly, and most importantly, we must work in cooperation with the countries of origin to prevent a brain drain that could impoverish these countries by, please, opting for circular migration.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to say first of all that i am really extremely happy to see how well and quickly the reception of the refugees from ukraine is going with us, especially thanks to all the volunteers. millions of people have direct access to the labour market from day one and freedom of movement throughout the eu. but let's look at germany for a moment. there are over 1 million workers missing. at the same time, hundreds of thousands of refugees are stuck in asylum procedures, perhaps with tolerated status that doesn't even allow them to work properly, or their qualifications are simply not recognized. and then they end up in odd jobs or stuck in places where there's no work. so, commissioner, please ensure that all those who want to work here can do so, that we put the people who are already here to work, and that the member states and the universities recognise diplomas and other qualifications. and finally, my personal request: please accept my pilot project for a european language learning app, so that the most important skill, which is to understand each other, is already there.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the european commission's plan for labour migration from egypt, morocco and tunisia. the aim is to make up for the shortage of labour in europe. agreements must also be concluded with senegal, nigeria, pakistan and even bangladesh. already, three million three million non-european foreigners enter the eu every year. but apparently that's not enough for the prophets of the common people. so we are categorically against that plan. and the reason is this. first of all, there are 13 million unemployed in the eu. why should we import migrant workers? secondly, the enormous absorption effect of these immigrant workers is being ignored. because of course they want to bring their families - and if possible their whole families - here, which in many cases will be an additional burden on the already heavy social security system. worse still, the more tunisians, senegalese, pakistanis and so on are allowed to come here, the greater the appeal in the countries of those who remained behind. so the tam-tam will be louder than ever before. so this plan by the christian democrats, socialists and liberals is nonsense. the boat is full.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the leak of xinjiang police files exposes more accurately than ever china's oppression of the uyghurs. they justified the mass arbitrary detention in so-called re-education camps. the tortures. a policy aimed at reducing the uighur birth rate. the eradication of uyghur identity, culture, education and religious experience. the separation of interned parents and their children who are assigned to chinese state orphanages. forced labor and a ubiquitous digital surveillance system that monitors every aspect of daily life. the leaked police manuals and policy documents show the responsibility of the chinese communist government, including the president himself, who instructed to expand the campaign in xinjiang. the actions of the chinese authorities in xinjiang meet the criteria of genocide and crimes against humanity set out in the un convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide. this has got to stop.
we are in favour of a european union built from the bottom up and we will work together if that adds value. we also want more respect for subsidiarity. the european union is built on a representative democracy. commissioner, you did not give a vote to the citizen, but to a few hundred citizens. all citizens must be treated equally and this can only be achieved if they can exercise their right to vote. we therefore believe that there is no need to amend the treaty. this would be a flight forward from the problems that need to be tackled now. the european union must create growth and jobs, invest much more in innovation, protect its borders and have ambitions to conclude trade agreements. there is so much wasteland within the existing treaties, but these paths are not being trodden. the approach to the recent crises has proved that the lisbon treaty allows all this and is not only future-proof but also very flexible. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted)
blue card reply. i am convinced that the eu can and should pursue a migration policy within the existing treaties. trade agreements are a full competence of the european union. the investment protection treaties are a mixed jurisdiction because they confer powers on the member states, namely judicial jurisdiction. however, trade agreements are a full competence which is not exhausted by the union. the french presidency of the council was therefore a very big disappointment in this respect. there is only one trade agreement in existence at the present time, namely with vietnam. we must exhaust our powers, deliver results and create added value for citizens. all this can be done within the framework of the lisbon treaty.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. president lange has already said that an estimated 25 million people worldwide are victims of forced labour. it is up to us to tackle the importation of products produced by forced labour. such products have no place in our internal market and on the shelves of our shops. we believe that these rules should have been better incorporated in the rules on due diligence. but it's been a while. the united states has therefore adopted an import ban. i have a few reservations about that. firstly, there will be 27 customs authorities and we must therefore be vigilant that rogue importers do not choose the weakest link of those 27. we will also need international cooperation, with a view to the united states. this cooperation must go beyond the fight against illegal imports. in short, we must try to tackle forced labour globally. finally, i would like to draw particular attention to the administrative burden, especially for smes, which will not be able to monitor the entire supply chain, and i would like to call for coherence in the relevant regulation, when it is adopted.
mr president, twenty-five million: this is the estimated number of people who are forced to work in the world, including in brazil or indonesia, where the european union wants to conclude free trade agreements, or in china, with which the european union wanted to conclude an investment agreement. six to 10 million are children, numbers that are only increasing due to the pandemic and the war in ukraine, which further push families into precariousness. the products of this modern slavery are landing on the european market. fifty billion euros of goods that arrive in europe are affected by child labour. the united states and canada have taken steps to ensure that their citizens are not complicit in these human rights violations. what is the european union waiting for? for this parliament, banning products related to forced labour from its market is the best way to achieve this and the best way to signal to states that as long as they do so, there will be no more trade or investment with them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in preparation for the upcoming council meeting, i ask for some self-reflection. we are all aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. but what is happening here on the part of a majority of the european nomenclature is that this majority of european politicians are being made to commit serial political misdeeds. they've imposed six sanctions packages so far, with an oil embargo, and they're considering gas. it is not surprising that the aggressor, the victim, is reacting back and slowly turning the gas towards europe. is it any wonder that the gas and oil is being sold to india and china and we have to buy it back at a high price? this policy is a blow to europe's knee and a wrong policy. putin laughs his ass off at what's being done here. i can only appeal to you to stop turning this sanctions screw. i can only appeal to you to do everything in your power to bring about peace, a policy which will ensure the security of energy supplies to the european citizens on our continent, and to put an end to this spiral of escalation.
mr president, commissioner, it’s almost 20 years now of my active public support of all three applicants on their way to the eu. also to balkan states i can feel this wind of change blowing here. yet the success of the whole of europe, including enlargement policy, depends on our will and ability to help ukraine win this war. also belarusians know this. they now fight in the ukraine along with ukrainians, against russians, in a belarussian regiment named after kalinoŭski. they also deserve a european future. we have to remember them.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, mr šefčovič, mr minister, i agree with all my colleagues who have said that we are living in a historic moment. let's go back 70 years to june 22nd, because today is june 22nd. on june 22, 1940, france was forced to sign an armistice. on june 22, 1941, the operation in eastern europe, that operation called barbarossa, began. today, the european union is facing its greatest geostrategic challenge, which in turn generates a huge security crisis, with humanitarian crises as its collateral, an energy crisis and a food crisis. we must respond with sanctions for the aggressor and solidarity for the victims. we must grant the candidate status to ukraine and moldova because we must recognize the european vocation of these two countries and if the european union wants to be geostrategic, then we must defend our values and give the candidate status to these two states. (the rapporteur has agreed to respond to a 'blue card' intervention)
response to the 'blue card' intervention. ukraine deserves to be granted candidate status because ukraine is going through a brutal war and we need to show solidarity with the ukrainian people. the republic of moldova is equally exposed and both states have learned their lessons, so i hope that in the council in the coming days this will happen, grant them candidate status and also congratulate the commission on the recommendations it has made.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course right to grant candidate membership to ukraine and georgia. this is in the geopolitical interest of the european union. moreover, these countries have proven over the years, especially ukraine, that they defend their right to self-determination, their right to dignity and their right to be part of this european union. but let's take a closer look at the western balkans. we cannot ignore them and simply say for years that they are historically and geographically part of the european union. i want them to be politically part of this european union that is common to all of us. one by one, kosovo. kosovo has waited too long for visa liberalisation. the youngest population in the european union, the youngest and most resilient population in the western balkans. we have to fulfill our commitment to kosovo. second, north macedonia and albania. as a bulgarian representative, i think that there is no better proposal than the french one for bulgaria or north macedonia. it is time in the remaining 7-8 days to make it possible for both sides to sign an agreement, historically, and thus to give way to north macedonia and albania to find a place in the european union. and bosnia and herzegovina, which is a very important country. it's time to give them a perspective on candidate membership.
mr president, the council decision this week will be a historic one. it will breathe a new lease on life into the eu’s enlargement strategy. it will present a chance to overcome the long—blocked effort to heal dangerous european divisions and open wounds. this pertains in particular to the countries in the western balkans, most notably albania and north macedonia, but also others. in doing this, in re-invigorating the enlargement policy, we’re not just being gracious. it is in our own interest not to have a grey zone of minor security, a kind of buffer zone between our borders and those of a revisionist russia. not sharing european stability with the eastern partners that want to join the eu family would undermine our own security and our own future. but let me also be explicit about one obvious conditionality for europe’s united perspective: without ukraine’s success in defeating the russian accession, the candidate status promises would fall flat. that’s why providing the necessary arms without hesitation must be enforced.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i don't share much with german prime minister scholz, but i do fully support the two messages he delivered to serbian prime minister vucic ten days ago. he told him if serbia wanted to join the european union, it had to recognize kosovo and it had to move away from russia. so serbia can no longer sit on two chairs. serbia must move away from the aggressive russian policy and must condemn its own aggressive policy which it pursued 30 years ago. but it will not be enough for serbia to do so with words alone. they'll have to show it by their actions. so serbia must return the stolen cultural property to croatia. he has to give us information on 1,800 missing, probably killed croats. it must show openness to resolve the question of the border on the danube and, above all, it must pay croatia war reparations for everything it destroyed in croatia during the aggression. only when serbia reaches this level of civilization can it continue its path towards the european union.
mr president, the russian war of aggression has shocked us all deeply. but this emotion must not lead to madness. yet that is precisely where the european union is taking us. its economic sanctions are leading to rising energy prices, skyrocketing inflation and collective impoverishment. they don't stop the war, but they actually have the opposite effect. putin is getting stronger and we are getting weaker. as if that were not enough, they want to include ukraine in the european union after albania and turkey. that country does not meet the necessary conditions in any way. the copenhagen criteria require a well-functioning market economy and a stable democratic rule of law. ukraine has neither, but is the most corrupt country in europe after russia. moreover, that accession will cost us many billions, which we do not even have. finally, we all risk being dragged deeper into the quagmire of this war. ukraine does not belong in the european union. either you are telling them that, or the european union is close to total madness.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, the relationship between the european union and africa must become a genuine partnership between equals. we are ready at the european parliament level, given the report on our table which must be voted on. but are we, as a european community, ready for such a partnership? at the wto, the european union continued to oppose the lifting of intellectual property rights on all pandemic response tools, including vaccines, tests and medicines, a measure requested by developing countries, while the vaccination rate in africa is still only 18%. the current russian anti-western propaganda is creating confusion among us by suggesting that european sanctions threaten the food security of the african continent and the lives of millions of people. togo and gabon have recently applied to join the commonwealth as two french-speaking countries and they no longer seem to expect much from europe. these relations must fundamentally change and start on a new basis. a real partnership, on an equal footing, requires listening to the concerns of our partners, generalising and extending the decolonial process as it has begun in belgium, and also putting an end to the colonial practices of european companies which continue to exploit the resources of these countries and cause suffering to the local populations. finally, trade and economic partnership agreements must take account of developments in the local economy, regional integration, economic diversification and, above all, the objectives of sustainable development.
mr president, we have repeatedly discussed the introduction of a 15% tax in this debate on the basis that some member states have used their veto power. but i would say it's to the detriment of europeans, to the detriment of all of us. clearly, profits should be taxed where they are made. the digital giant corporations are making huge profits. i don't envy them at all, but this principle should really be reflected on an international level. it was approved internationally, but vetoed here. what 's the point ? this leads de facto to unfair tax competition. we've seen it on various leaked papers cases, i could calculate. what's the next step, what's the solution? we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report. and what's troublesome, and i never thought i'd say it, is to be discarded.
mr president, this debate on the veto against an agreement on a minimum corporate tax in all the member states, which is the result of a very long mandate of this european parliament, shows firstly that this is a directive and therefore the governments of the member states have the opportunity to assert their tax specificities in the council, where there are, for example, island territories. but to veto on the basis of retaliation against the measures adopted and voted by this european parliament in relation to the rule of law is simply unacceptable. it is therefore clear that the reform of the treaties, as a result of the work of the conference on the future of europe, is inevitable in order to put an end to unanimity and thus establish a decision-making process which will also allow for enlargement. we are talking about the incorporation of new member states. can we support enlargement on the basis of unanimity which makes impossible such a basic principle of tax justice as the large multinationals paying where they make their profits? the answer is simply no.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again there is a deadlock in the council. yes, to hide under subsidiarity that taxation is a national state's responsibility is ridiculous, because we are talking about an agreement to end the scourge, to end tax evasion, which is transnational. let's get serious about this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax havens are not used as a means of preventing tax evasion. that is why we in parliament voted massively for this agreement and i very much believe that we cannot get rid of this inequality after all, and i am advocating that pillar 1 and pillar 2 be resolved through this agreement. yes, the role of the commission and the council is to get to implement what we voted for, to defend european citizens, to defend european businesses, small and medium-sized businesses, and to have ethics and fairness, to pay this minimum tax of 15% and the corporate tax where the multinational operates.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think that this debate confirmed how important it is for parliament and for all the european institutions to reach agreement on both pillar one and pillar two. we should never lose sight of what we are talking about. we are talking about establishing a reasonable level of effective minimum taxation at 15%. this would undermine the effectiveness of tax havens and of illegal tax competition, not fair competition, in the european union, with a huge amount of additional revenues for our member states, in a difficult economic situation. second, we are working on pillar one on the target of reallocating taxing rights, because it is no more possible with the digital economy that taxing rights are paid only where companies establish their headquarters and not where they make profits. i think this is very popular, very well understood in our countries. we have the unanimity rule, but the unanimity rule is not something allowing member states to veto something that they have endorsed internationally and they have endorsed at a european level 20 days before. because here we have also another principle in the treaties, which is the principle of loyal cooperation among member states. is this loyal cooperation? i doubt it, honestly. so i appreciate the call for considering the proposal from the conference on the future of europe for qualified majority voting. you know that president von der leyen has referred to this in several speeches. i have heard strong voices calling for exploring the possibility of enhanced cooperation. overall, i think that the eu decision—making process that we respect, because it’s a democratic one, should not be undermined. for this reason, i repeat that, together with you, with the french presidency, with the council, we will not give up!
president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i could endorse the comments made by paolo gentiloni. i believe that in this shared objective of fair taxation, three elements must be distinguished. firstly, the question that will arise in the medium and long term - because it takes time, but it is all the more necessary - is that of rethinking, as i said, our decision-making methods. it is a difficult subject to reach unanimity, particularly in this area. but france, beyond its presidency, is committed and determined. we can also look, within the existing framework, at the tools at our disposal which we have not hesitated to use in the past, despite the difficulties, such as enhanced cooperation. it is a tool at our disposal and, as a member state, beyond the six-month presidency, we are not opposed to it. but as commissioner gentiloni has just said, on the major issue before us today, there is urgency and there is a need for the word given and for collective and loyal cooperation. that is what is at stake, since all the member states have agreed to this international text. all member states indicated that they supported the swift implementation of this international agreement. now it's time for everyone to take responsibility, to keep their promises. the role of the presidency, on the council's side, is to ensure that this efficiency is met, that these commitments are kept, by seeking, within the legal framework that is ours, a rapid agreement. and i repeat, until the last moment of our presidency, until midnight on 30 june, we are committed to this, and i believe we will succeed because it is in europe's interest and we cannot imagine, in times as difficult as the present, that europe is divided on issues on which it has advanced international cooperation, thanks to all of us. all these subjects must therefore be distinguished. if there were other ways, we would explore them. but today, our priority is to respect the agreements reached, the words spoken and the commitments made, and this is our compass for the hours ahead.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. when it comes to taxing multinationals, they always find someone somewhere in this european union to stop them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion and tax havens, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat tax evasion. the tax on financial transactions also became a game of who gets what. a ping-pong game to avoid the big corporation contributing anything. so now viktor orbán's hungary is blocking a deal which, poor thing, should guarantee a minimum tax rate of 15% for multinationals. fifteen percent of the time. that's really not much. very little. only a few decades ago, the figure was 48% in belgium. but for the extreme right and conservatives, even 15% is too much. it is thus demonstrating once again on whose side it is in the struggle between labour and capital. the working class can always pay, but the multinationals are particularly reluctant to impose. we're on the other side. it 's obvious . this deal has to happen, but tax justice needs more. because while the dividends are pouring in, the people are barely making ends meet. more ambition can be achieved through enhanced cooperation between more ambitious member states.
madam president, i would like to say, frankly speaking, on the day when men will be able to give birth, on the day when men will be able to be pregnant and become mothers, then, on that day only, will they have the right to tell me what to do with my body. they will have the right on that day to tell my daughter what to do with her body. but today that is not the case. so please live with that. women have the right to decide for themselves. women are sovereign over their own body, within the boundaries of the law. so i stand behind abortion rights. women must decide by themselves if they want to be mothers or not. but what i regret is that in this parliament, we forget to defend the rights of muslim women. women from my background who mostly cannot even choose if and when they want to have sex or if and when they even want to be married and with whom. or if they want to divorce, they cannot because they are kept in marital captivity. so please let us stand up for all women. let us stand up every day for all women. because the handmaid’s tale we have been speaking about is not playing only far away in the us where roe v. wade is overruled, but also here in homes near our own, because we do not have the courage to defend the rights of muslim women.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, the digital markets act is clearly a good thing. the law creates the much-needed level playing field and also provides growth opportunities for our young businesses. the digital services act is also a major step forward. the law ensures uniform rules in the internal market and offers much better protection for users of digital platforms. i am very concerned about freedom of expression, despite some important adjustments. i fear that important private players will restrict free speech. humor, satire, parody, critical voices, legitimate political opinions will not get through the algorithmic mill. algorithms that don't know any nuance. i'm glad to come from a country where the constitution forbids censorship. offline and online. this should have been the starting point for the eu, with the exception of a few major crimes, which are listed in a restrictive way. the eu that boasts of protecting rights and freedoms.
rapporteur. – madam president, colleagues, commissioner, if the eu wants to play its role as a global actor, it has to promote rules—based trade and show by example that trade agreements deliver, bring peoples together and raise the standards worldwide on safety of labour, sustainable development goals and human rights. in these geopolitically unstable times, more than ever we have the duty to diversify our supply chains and open up new markets. colleagues, nine years after negotiations were suspended, the political leaders of both the eu and india agreed last year in may to resume negotiations for a balanced, ambitious, comprehensive and mutually—beneficial trade agreement, a separate negotiation on a standalone investment protection agreement and another agreement on geographical indications. this report confirms this approach. an agreement with india will be favourable for economic reasons as the untapped potential is huge. with its 1.3 billion inhabitants, india is the largest democracy in the world and a solid alternative for an eu that wants to diversify its supply chains. although in recent years the eu has become india’s leading trade partner, figures show that the potential in economic cooperation with india remains mainly untapped. india is one out of the eu’s four strategic partners within the european—indo-pacific strategy. therefore, the agreement is also of geopolitical importance. dear colleagues, in this own—initiative report, the european parliament gives its full support to the negotiations, based on the current mandate. meps also firmly welcome the establishment of a trade and technology council with india that should be launched by the end of this year under the czech presidency. we have listed the following positive priorities: a comprehensive free trade agreement with a dedicated chapter on smes on digital trade and raw materials, and an ambitious and enforceable tsd chapter aligned with the paris agreement. we encourage the negotiators to touch upon the longstanding market access irritants both across governance levels and sectors, with the comprehensive elimination of tariffs and quotas on a reciprocal basis, while paying attention to sensitive products and ensuring that reductions will not be compensated by an increase in domestic taxes and levies; a standalone investment protection agreement with a dedicated eu—india investment court system, with a view to the founding of the multilateral investment court; a robust chapter on public procurement applicable at all levels of governance and a prohibition of certain discriminatory bi—national practices; an agreement on the establishment of a bilateral ex-ante and ex-post consultation platform between the eu and india, designed to facilitate discussions or consultations in advance of any new measure that could negatively affect trade or investment; and, finally, we propose – following the good experience we have had in the fta with vietnam – the establishment of a parliamentary joint committee to allow parliamentary oversight. colleagues, i conclude that, without any doubt, challenging negotiations await. however, not only the eu but also india and the world have changed. in all contacts with our indian partners we have clearly understood the political will to succeed. i hope that negotiations can succeed and that this parliament will be able to give its consent in the current mandate. we therefore need to grab this opportunity to strengthen eu—india ties with both hands. finally, i would like to thank my entire colleagues for the good cooperation, and i hope for the approval of my report with a broad majority tomorrow.
president of the commission you talk about the state of emergency and the importance of care in europe. and that's true, of course. but let us not be blind, let us not be silent here, that this is the result of concrete policy. first and foremost, the austerity policy which you have imposed on the member states for years. and today, market forces are being introduced more and more into health care. market forces are at odds with good public health care, which is about saving costs and maximising profits. then the staff must do it with fewer and fewer resources and fewer and fewer staff. and then the people who need to be cared for are only allowed to shower once a week and they don't get enough hygiene supplies and so on. so we have to break with the market forces. the solution is more public investment and a clear break with the policy you have pursued so far. i expect that from any european health care strategy: break with the logic of privatization and guarantee mass good public care.
in writing. over the past two years, our carers have shown great commitment, professionalism and perseverance in providing the best possible care for everyone. clearly, quality care, for both the providers and the patients, must be a top priority. the sector deserves more than applause. the number of persons in the eu requiring long-term care is expected to increase from 30,8 million in 2019 to 38,1 million in 2050. the european parliament therefore approved this ambitious report which calls for a long-term strategy for our care sector. i fully support this report, with particular attention to making care jobs more attractive: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this report is also groundbreaking in that it recognises the need for care. 80% of all long-term care in europe is provided by unpaid carers. these are 40 to 50 million europeans who care for family or friends. they often do so without official status, without a fixed number of leave days, a care allowance or clear pension rules. i am therefore very pleased that this report provides for a statute based on ambitious european standards.
in writing. madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need to support the whole healthcare sector. health is priceless! but the health crisis has shown the weakness of our health care systems, in part due to chronic underinvestment. the problem is twofold. there is a lack of quality, accessible and affordable long-term care services and a lack of recognition of workers in the sector, who are prone to absenteeism and worker absenteeism. however, demographic change, population ageing, as well as climate change and mitigation reforms will exacerbate the pressure on the sector. i therefore support the report on a common european action on care and call on the commission to take swift action, especially as it would be in line with the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe. finally, there is a need to ensure rapid and equal access to high quality care services for people of all generations and to support carers through, inter alia, wage increases, contract adjustments and recognition of the physical and psychological burdens of the environment.
member of the commission. – mr president, i first want to thank the honourable members for this enriching debate. i think we are all sharing the fact that especially households, but also companies, smes, are suffering from these price increases. and we are all convinced that we have to act boldly to mitigate this situation. when we are talking about the causes, i’m a bit surprised. because first it seems that we have forgotten that before the war there was a pandemic. and this pandemic has already pushed prices high because a lot of value chains have been interrupted. when you talk to some industries, they cannot get the material they need. so there is a price hike which is due to the pandemic. the second one is that we are moving into something which is quite close to a war economy. and we should call it like that, that the situation is not a normal situation which can be easily resolved. and we know where the responsibility lies. the responsibility first lies there where the war has started, where the decision to aggress an independent country has started and was taken. and i think that we just cannot give in to such an aggression, which would then be an invitation to pursue this kind of aggression. now we all know that in an exceptional period markets do not normally function. and we are driven in many areas not by normally functioning markets, but by incredible speculative movements, which has pushed food and energy up. and when you look at the inflation, it’s mainly pushed by the price hikes of energy and food beside the causes i’ve mentioned on the value chains. and those who now say that it’s because of the green deal that we have inflation. they just do not tell the truth because we have not yet seen finally some real impact of the green deal. we see now that even coal factories are relaunched. so we have not yet seen any real impact on this by the green deal. but what we know, by the way, is that due to the war, climate change is continuing. climate change does not wait, it’s just there. and we have seen it now recently again in italy with this catastrophe. so i think that we have to be now serious on really trying to mitigate the impact of inflation. and therefore, social is so important because social means that we have to work on the cohesion of our societies because there is also speculation, speculation on dividing our societies even more, on creating new kinds of divisions inside our societies, but also among european countries. and therefore, i think the best way now to deal with this is not each member state individually – certainly a lot of measures have to be taken individually by member states – but what is needed now is a good european-wide coordination in order to make sure that we are not at the end dividing europe in those who are able to help and those who have more difficulties to help. and this is a broad issue. the unity of the union is needed more than ever now. and therefore, unity means working on social europe, working on the principles of the pillar, but adapting also our policies to the exceptional situation of something which is close to a war economy we are going through. and we have to convey to our citizens the real messages that we are ready to help. we are ready to support their purchasing power, the way how they have to try to make ends meet, as it has been said by colleagues, but also to have companies who will be affected by the fact that they have energy problems, the prices, but also perhaps the supply of fundamental energy will be blocked specially by the russians. and so it’s not the sanctions who have created inflation, it’s the war mainly. it’s the fact that markets are overshooting due to speculation and when the oecd international energy agency considers that about 200 billion special windfall profits have been produced by the fact that markets are not rationally behaving any more – and some certainly take their advantage out of this – then i think we have to draw the right consequences from that and not put into question now the green deal, which is an issue which we cannot escape from.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for this vigorous debate on an urgent topic. we learnt many lessons with the last crisis but perhaps the strongest one is that we have to show our unity and our determination. i remain confident that the targeted measures at national level and the instruments adopted and coordinated at the eu level will prove to be effective in protecting the most vulnerable groups and the people at risk of poverty. i very much agree with what was said, that we need a european coordinated effort and that member states need to be encouraged on how to best use and implement instruments and policies that are already in place. and yes, as mr radtke said, this crisis will be tackled with new innovative ideas, not with business as usual, and here i agree with ms bischoff. let’s have in mind that this price increase crisis has some of its roots in the energy sector and that its price hikes are partially linked to the overall uncertainty on the market, which is constantly nurtured by the russian war of aggression. our common goal should be to bring predictability and certainty to our energy providers’ back. that is why our regulatory framework is developing so fast, and you all mentioned them: the repowereu plan, fit for 55 package and also the taxonomy climate delegated act, which this house is going to vote on tomorrow are a few of the many examples. we will continue this discussion also in the context of the debate on taxing the windfall profits of energy companies, which i look forward to, but already now i would like to reassure you that the council will do its utmost in line with its competences to tackle this unprecedented challenge. the debate, along with action, will continue at the european level. we will have a social summit ahead of the october european council, which will for sure deal with this issue. i would like to close my brief remarks by thanking you for giving me the opportunity to participate in this fruitful discussion.
thank you very much. the debate is closed. we move on to the next item on the agenda. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the european project was born of solidarity and the need to move forward by implementing sound social and economic policies. to date, the eu has been a beacon in the world as a more advanced rights-based bloc, with decades of social progress bearing witness to its success and expansion. however, if the eu does not offer a better life for the majority, we run the risk of people turning their backs on the project. we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence. in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success. we are convinced that putting the well-being of people at the centre of all policies is both a realistic goal and an ethical imperative of our time. we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
in writing. sanctions policies that defy common sense are driving up prices drastically and impoverishing european families. we put hungary's energy security and the future of hungarian families first. the sharp rise in the cost of living in the eu is being offset in hungary by the reduction in the price of public services to the end consumer, which is a reduction to the extent required by law. the increase in fuel prices is stopped by the price of gasoline available to the public. despite the war in our neighborhood, we must protect the value of jobs and wages and pensions. but there will be no economic recovery until there is peace. an immediate ceasefire and peace negotiations are needed in ukraine because only peace can end the war inflation and the threatened war economic crisis! we are for peace!
in writing. the european project was born of solidarity and the need to move forward by implementing sound social and economic policies. to date, the eu has been a beacon in the world as a more advanced rights-based bloc, with decades of social progress bearing witness to its success and expansion. however, if the eu does not offer a better life for the majority, we run the risk of people turning their backs on the project. we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence. in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success. we are convinced that putting the well-being of people at the centre of all policies is both a realistic goal and an ethical imperative of our time. we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
in writing. europe is experiencing an economic crisis which will have a negative impact on everyone, but especially on ordinary people. we, therefore, as parliament, must do everything possible to mitigate the impact of the crisis on our citizens. the european economy has not yet recovered from the pandemic crisis, but it is once again being hit hard by rising inflation, rising energy and fuel prices, and higher prices on store shelves, which are driving up the cost of living. rising inflation is having a particularly negative impact on household budgets - and this is being felt strongly by europeans. according to eu agencies, food prices in the eu will rise by about 20% in the autumn. the high price increases will affect all member states, but the impact will be much more pronounced in the so-called new countries, including lithuania. food accounts for about 30 percent of all household expenses, and that number is growing. to protect the people most at risk of poverty, the union should therefore create a special 'anti-inflation shield' to reduce the rise in prices, which in the euro area is much faster than the incomes of citizens. this reduces living standards and forces households to cut back on spending. people in need need of assistance should be given access to social housing or housing assistance. disadvantaged people have the right to adequate financial assistance and support, and ordinary people must be protected from the effects of the crisis.
in writing. as a hungarian social democrat, i have long held the view that the european community should finally turn left after the right-liberal-conservative trend that has been dominant for years and put the human being at the centre. the covid pandemic and the accompanying economic crisis, which has been exacerbated by the war situation, are also hitting member states with a deepening social crisis, depending on their resilience. the crisis has shown that without solidarity and cooperation, there are no meaningful and lasting solutions. and social crisis can only be addressed with social solutions. there are already many examples in member states from spain to romania of how social measures funded by eu funds can help families who have been made homeless by the crisis. unfortunately, the hungarian government has not yet recognized, or has become so insensitive in its anti-european struggle, that there are eu instruments that can provide a temporary lifeline for citizens: for example, by financing the food aid with the opportunity coupon proposed by the mszp. the hungarian government should review and revise its national plan submitted in connection with the recovery fund as soon as possible in order to reinforce the social-based crisis management measures. the european union has an important role to play in pressing member state governments to implement the social pillars, which have been adopted but not fully adopted, as widely as possible. it is time to put people at the centre of europe and not just economic interests.
the next item is the report by mr jordi cañas on the eu action plan for the social economy (2021/2179 (ini)) (a9-0192/2022) i would remind you that the seats are vacant, except for the first two rows, which are allocated to the heads of the political groups. you can request 'catch the eye' and 'blue card' cards via your voting device after you have inserted your voting card. i would also like to remind you that speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the central platform, except for spontaneous requests for the floor, blue cards and points of order.
member of the commission. – mr president, first, i am very pleased to see parliament’s support and engagement towards the development of the social economy. we all recognise the important role of the social economy in our economies and societies, as it puts fairness and sustainability as its core values. working for an economy that works indeed for people. today, our societies face major social, environmental, democratic and economic challenges. the covid-19 crisis, the green and digital transitions and the war in ukraine are largely affecting our resilience and social cohesion, as the previous debate has illustrated. in this particular context, the social economy has a key role to play to make our society fairer and more inclusive. the social economy represents a strong social and economic reality in several member states providing quality jobs, contributing to the overall economic activity, particularly at local and regional level, and to the provision of care and social services. in fact, more than a third of the estimated 13.8 million paid jobs in the social economy is in the sector of social services. social economy organisations also contribute to social and labour market inclusion of disadvantaged groups like people with disabilities or migrants. they help to improve gender equality and integrate young people. they also drive sustainable economic and industrial development, promoting the active participation of citizens in our societies, and revitalise europe’s rural and depopulated areas. however, the social economy potential is not fully tapped as its business model is not evenly spread across the european union. while in a number of eu member states, it is still largely underdeveloped and the action plan put forward by the commission aims to allow all relevant public authorities and stakeholders to act jointly and fully use the potential of the social economy using also and benefiting from the european dimension, be it financial but also the european internal market. the action plan presents more than 60 measures to unlock this potential with three key objectives. first, the development of an enabling framework for the social economy. policy and legal frameworks need to be adapted to this specific business model, including in specific areas such as state aid, public procurement and taxation. and in this regard, the proposal for a council recommendation will be key. it will set out guidelines on the policies and legal frameworks. member states need to put in place to support the development of the social economy, providing targeted guidance while taking into account the different traditions, scope and denomination of the social economy in the different member states. secondly, the opening of opportunities through enhanced support to capacity building and skills, as well as improved access to funding. thirdly, enhancing the recognition of the social economy and its potential by promoting a better understanding of its specificities to all relevant stakeholders. i want to thank the rapporteur and the shadows for your important report. parliament is fully supporting the ambition of the action plan and the commission is very grateful for that. in particular, you share the commission’s view that policymakers and stakeholders need to work on improving all aspects of the social economy ecosystem jointly. your report also includes several concrete suggestions on the way we should implement the action plan. these are very valuable to us as we are busy preparing several key initiatives. please be assured that we will duly take those suggestions into account. your ideas on the scope of the future council recommendation on developing social economy framework conditions; your call for the role of the social economy to be fully recognised in the context of other policies and future initiatives, such as the care strategy we discussed this morning; your suggestions on our future study to collect qualitative and quantitative information on the social economy across all member states; your consideration for the transition pathway for the proximity and social economy industrial ecosystem which is under preparation; and your call for new initiatives to support the development of worker buy outs. we also recall the european parliament’s recent legislative own initiative resolution on the statute for european cross-border associations and non-profit organisations. the commission committed in its reply to the parliament of may 22 to come up with a package of legislative and non-legislative measures to address the parliament’s objectives. we will continue engaging with you on this important matter. dear president, your ideas and support are very valuable to us in our work on the implementation of the action plan. but they are also valuable to the millions of people working every day in social enterprises, social entities and making our society function a bit better. social economy can play a decisive role to support the shift to a sustainable and resilient growth model, as proposed by the conference on the future of europe.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, austerity, social unrest, cuts in public services: a few years ago the eu did not go to the trouble of trying to stop the leaking euro-titanic. while the little music of the return to budgetary austerity is being played, the european union is drowning the fish with texts like this one. when you call for - and i quote - the commission to promote the social economy internationally, you have to be really careful not to laugh. the reality is that the bulky ship 'commission' is sailing blindly, encountering galley after galley, flooding our markets with cheap manufactured goods imported by container ships across seas and oceans. how far away is the social economy! we no longer have time to waste words by adding commas to reports which ultimately have only one objective: to keep the commission in line while the purchasing power of the french is declining. in the face of the tide, against the winds and the tides, patriots are the only ones who keep the course of the nation that protects.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, the social economy is a new model compared with the traditional one, which can cover a reality intermediate between the public and the private sector, generating new opportunities that respond to a social good. the typology and development of entities recognised within this model in the european area has been very heterogeneous. therefore, the uniqueness and regulation of each nation must be respected. we do not agree that the wealth that the social economy can bring, the creativity that has yet to be developed or the potential are affected by an imposition, by a requirement to align or condition these projects to the objectives of other agendas, such as the environment, or the sustainable development goals, which limit entrepreneurship in only one direction. the social economy must help generate activity and services - needs that are not being met - but at the same time it must coexist with a market economy, never devour it. it must do so while respecting free competition and offering the same quality standards, without requiring exclusive privileges that would deprive other business projects in the same sector of presence or competitiveness.
the social economy action plan is particularly important for the 14 million workers involved in this sector. in recent years we have seen a rapid growth of the sector, with an increasing importance of social enterprise in our society. the action plan was needed to ensure that the sector could continue to grow in a sustainable and social way in the future. i would like to stress three important elements: first, a review of the existing state aid rules. the current rules too often put a brake on the functioning of social enterprises. this is why this relaxation of regulations is so necessary in order to allow tailor-made companies to grow. secondly, we must continue to focus on socially responsible public procurement. these public procurement contracts represent 14% of european gdp and can therefore be an important tool for achieving the social objective of the european social pillar. thirdly, a clear european definition will make it easier for genuine social enterprises to differentiate themselves, both in public procurement and in access to european funds. this action plan should give a social boost to our labour market, so that people who are often excluded from the regular labour market can participate in our society in a meaningful and full way.
(blue card) but tobe and the moderates, now they're mixing up the cards. this vote is not just about nuclear power, this is about green painting of fossil natural gas. and no, i don't think it's worth it. then you have to do it again and you have to do it right and put the nuclear power in a separate file. but to mix it up and green-classify fossil energy and call it sustainable, and label your and my pension money with fossil gas as a sustainable investment that's up the walls, i think! you have to be able to see clearly and tell the difference between apples and pears. there's nothing sustainable about fossil gas.
the commission has already done so. i appeal to all the unconvinced liberals and conservatives in this house: we have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity tomorrow to prevent gas and nuclear in the taxonomy here. every kid today knows that gas is a fossil fuel, and it's causing the climate crisis, and it's definitely not the solution. the gas criteria correspond to russian gas in essence. and the extortability and energy dependence of this very thing is becoming our undoing. every child today knows that nuclear power is dangerous to the environment and to people, and nuclear waste will burden our generations for hundreds and thousands of years to come. and it's now clear that building nuclear reactors is too slow to stop the climate crisis, and it's too expensive, and it's much cheaper to invest in renewable energy. and let's stop this watered-down taxonomy, because we're losing valuable private funding. we're losing valuable time and credibility on climate change. please vote with us in favour of the objection. be part of the solution, not part of the problem.
president, some of our colleagues do not want nuclear power stations because we would be supporting putin. that is a lie, because there are many other suppliers of nuclear fuel, for example canada and australia. meanwhile, the result of green fanaticism, which has demonized nuclear power, is as follows: the belgian prime minister must beg engie to keep nuclear power stations open. the belgian green minister must build gas stations. the netherlands is using more and more coal-fired power stations and in germany the government is now burning a lot of brown coal. brown coal! we may have to burn dried cow dung later. for those who wonder what the superior step of stupide is, the answer is green! what is worse is that socialists, christian democrats and liberals are all complicit in this madness. i hope that the coming winters will not be too harsh, because then it would be painfully clear to the people how disastrous this policy has been so far.
for the ecr group in the current changed european security framework, the ecr group is committed to a peaceful western balkans region that can continue on the european path without russian interference. we welcome the political agreement of 12 june on the principles for ensuring a functioning bosnia and herzegovina which is necessary for the stability of that country. we urge the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to implement this agreement without delay. we also support the measures to ensure the security of bosnia and herzegovina announced in the madrid declaration of the nato summit. the report we are discussing, however, tends towards a more unitary state for bosnia and herzegovina, with the flattening of the concept of the constituent peoples laid down in the dayton peace agreement. as a representative of a multinational state, i know that this will have a negative effect. the failure of this report to respect the division of competences between the eu and the member states in the field of education is also a matter of concern in my own province of flanders. a federal system in which the peoples of equal membership can manage their own spheres of competence and cooperate seems to us to be a more appropriate way forward.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, despite the fact that we live in a context of intense geopolitical competition, that we are unfortunately returning to the politics of confronted blocs and that globalisation is being questioned due to some of its outcomes, we need to uphold more than ever multilateralism and its institutions. never before have we been so connected with each other, and our challenges so interconnected. we must continue to find common solutions to common challenges within the framework of multilateral institutions. the eu must help to keep multilateral institutions and international organisations alive and functioning. however, they must be effective, operational and rules based. if this is not so, which is actually the case of some decades-old institutions, they must be reformed. finally, and importantly, the eu should be more active in building strong alliances with democratic counterparts, sharing our values which are increasingly under threat. we need to ensure that these values that have fostered progress, democracy, justice and human rights are the driving force of global governance.
madam president, russia’s war of aggression against ukraine has been a wake-up call for all of us in the european union. this war is a defining event for the future of our common foreign and security policy. many challenges, as colleagues have already pointed out, lie ahead of us in this new era marked by increasing strategic competition, as well as a continued erosion of the rules-based international order. indeed, the european union should strengthen its role as a global champion for multilateralism. it is about making this system more relevant, resilient and effective. moreover, as the european union we need to intensify ties with our strategic partners, partners with whom we share the same values, partners with whom we can work together to promote and defend the rules-based international order with the united nations at its heart. the european parliament has a special role to play when it comes to parliamentary diplomacy and building global partnerships. therefore, let us continue to develop our wide-ranging networks with third countries and international organisations to face common challenges. as committee chair, let me say to jávi lópez, well done, your report will be voted tomorrow with a large majority.
madam president, thanks to the rapporteur for this timely report. each of russia’s atrocities in ukraine represents the brutal face of the crisis in multilateralism. and this crisis did not happen overnight. no, it is a culmination of coordinated efforts of autocrats to undermine the international rules-based order. and we simply cannot allow them to weaponise, hijack or destroy multilateralism for their own geopolitical purposes. the global crisis we face are many, whether of democratic decline, the ongoing pandemic or climate emergency. and this is the moment for the eu to step up together with like-minded partners. our union must place itself at the forefront of efforts to revitalise multilateralism. doing so requires urgent strategic autonomy, and we must be much more assertive in promoting our values. we have no second to lose.
mr president, multilateralism and respect for international law are basic principles of the european union's external action. globalisation and major challenges such as climate change, pandemics, terrorism, etc., require multilateral responses, not unilateral responses or impositions by major powers. unfortunately, other actors favour unilateralism, the use of force and spheres of influence. we need to strengthen multilateralism and we need to strengthen the united nations and the rule of law. the entire international community must actively reject russian aggression. it is not possible to take a line of indifference or neutrality in the face of the tragedy that is taking place in ukraine. russian aggression means blowing up the entire international order. it is not a mere conflict at the regional level of europe. a common response from all is needed against russia's unacceptable, criminal and anachronistic behaviour. in a complex, interdependent and polarized world, we need to keep moving forward to make the european union an effective global player. i also support the union's being able to take a permanent seat on the security council in the context of a future consensus reform of this body.
mr president, i want to commend the report by mr lópez, particularly the references to the sustainable development goals. i think the report doesn’t quite capture the degree to which the sdgs are in crisis. there is no way that we will achieve agenda 2030. there is no way that we will be able to mobilise the finance for the sdgs or even to monitor the implementation of the sdgs when we don’t even have a strategy and an implementation plan for the sdgs. i want to also mention syria. it’s a conflict that once had the full attention of this house, and it’s a conflict that we’ve turned our back on, quite frankly. the un security council has until sunday to renew the cross-border resolution that delivers food and humanitarian aid to 4 million people. i think all of us know, frankly, that there is very little chance that that cross-border resolution will be renewed. in my opinion, there is obviously no rationale for reducing humanitarian aid in circumstances where even more people are in need of it now and there is absolutely no alternative.
mr president, thank you to the european commission. in fact, this report complains of a loss of influence, of an erosion of the influence of the european countries and the european union in the world. i think he'll get applause inside the house, but i think outside he'll get a little laugh. firstly, when i read that the european union should have a permanent seat in addition to the seats that european countries already have on the un security council, i think india, which has a population of 1 billion, will laugh a little and say, 'why not us?' secondly, when you talk about a loss of influence and the fact that we don't have enough influence in the world, i think of the people in west africa who are fighting against french imperialism or the imperialism of european countries to free themselves. they'll also laugh a little yellow when they read this report. i think that rather than talking about influence, we should talk about respect, we should listen to the other: that's what multilateralism is. it is not about imposing your will on others, but about listening to the other and having relations as equals. this is how we will build a world of peace, solidarity and cooperation, not by imposing our influence and role.
the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in ukraine. at the same time, however, brexit is still not done. our british friends know that we respect their choice, but there are consequences. the integrity of our internal market and the protection of our consumers are red lines. we know that the eu is taking a flexible and pragmatic approach with the october package of vice-president šefčovič, but the northern ireland protocol and the withdrawal agreement must be maintained. i note that both parties agree to the principle of an express lane or green lane in respect of goods intended solely for the northern ireland market. i think that on the basis of this principle it should be possible to reach an agreement, provided that there are definitive guarantees that the goods will go only to the northern irish market. i therefore ask that both sides should sit down and reach an agreement in good faith, which should allow us to develop further ambitions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, my question is simple: can we tell people the truth? because what we're seeing today, i have to say, is a holdup, a wallet holdup. the wallet empties, the prices go up, but where does that money go? where are we gonna find him? it is going to be found in the coffers of multinational companies that are making excess profits, that is, additional profits on top of the profits they are already making normally. so they're obviously making excess profits on energy, but also on our caddies, on food, and so on. that's billions of dollars in profits. bingo, like every crisis. that's what capitalism is! in the face of disaster, there are people who take a shower and there are multinationals who rob us. that's enough! let's give the people their money back, tax those profits. and the european commission must not come up with a canada dry or coca light proposal: any excess profit is unacceptable. we cannot accept to profit from the misery of the crisis. we won't let you through.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! deforestation and forest degradation must be combated by all means possible. our forests around the world are our green lungs. we have to protect her. they make a valuable contribution to our climate by reducing co2 emissions, if they are also managed sustainably. the regulation provides for the most extensive due diligence and documentation obligations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the new rules. i would just like to make a critical remark: i believe that we should not exaggerate with these various conditions and obligations, especially for those who import and who participate in trade here. we are not trying to build a massive compliance system, but we are trying to get to the root of the problem. i therefore believe that we must continue to think about alternatives and other measures. so this is a proposal which will hopefully be evaluated with some measure of restraint when we vote tomorrow. but i think it's not the only way, and we should also continue to work on alternatives.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me first of all thank you for packaging the debates on the forest strategy and on global deforestation, because at the end of the day, these are two sides of the same coin. and i have listened carefully to the different interventions tonight, and i take good note of your ambition, and your comments and of the impressions you took back from your recent travels to amazonia. let me briefly address just a couple of points raised by several of you. first of all, several of you have mentioned the rights of indigenous people. and i can only share your concerns that deforestation and forest degradation have a dramatic impact on the livelihoods of the most vulnerable people, including indigenous peoples who rely heavily on forest ecosystems and are the best defenders of forests. the regulation will ensure that no commodity or products issued from deforestation or forest degradation of the lands inhabited by indigenous people is allowed to enter the eu market. the cooperation structures foreseen in the regulation should allow the full participation of all stakeholders, including civil society, indigenous people and local communities; partnerships will strengthen the rights of forest—dependent communities. we will, of course, closely look into your and the member states’ position on these issues and assess the co—legislators’ position. however, let me stress that whenever considering additional references, we must also take into account that other legislative initiatives – in particular the corporate sustainability due diligence directive – also comprehensively address this issue, so as to avoid any duplication. i heard also your strong calls to extend the scope of the regulation to other commodities. let me briefly reiterate the commission position on this matter and our concerns. the six commodities included in our draft regulation have been proposed taking into account the impact assessment of the initiative. they already cover over 80% of products that contribute to deforestation, and if we propose new products, we need proof that they are really the ones where the union is contributing the most to the global deforestation. and as i mentioned in my introduction, without that proof, our regulation could be challenged, especially at the international level. and we of course should avoid that by all means. our proposal therefore sets out a progressive scope that will be updated regularly, according to new deforestation trends and data. and again, the aim of progressive scope is to focus first on the commodities where the eu’s impact on global deforestation and forest degradation is the largest, and the regulatory intervention promises to have the most impact. some final comments also on financial institutions, which are proposed to be included in the scope of the regulation. the european union has several laws already in place or under development that address the environmental responsibility of financial institutions. however, the regulatory system functions via entirely different authorities. therefore i need to make you aware that including them in our proposal would require setting up two completely different tracks for monitoring and enforcement. in the area of sustainable finance in the sustainable finance disclosure regulation, financial market participants and financial advisers are required to disclose adverse impacts on sustainability matters at entity and financial products levels. the revised corporate sustainability reporting directive, as well as the broader sustainable finance framework that is being put in place, will significantly improve transparency, and complement and support the legislative initiative on deforestation. so our proposal is forward looking and it is designed to prevent further deforestation. it is an opportunity to level the playing field for the many businesses who are already cleaning up their supply chains. it is a chance to underline the eu’s leadership in addressing urgent global problems – not just deforestation, but forest degradation as well. but we also need to move fast. that matters because we are confident that when others see our system working, they too will follow. in the coming weeks and months, the commission will work with all of you to deliver an outcome that is ambitious, realistic and easy to put in place. that means protecting the essential elements of this pioneering proposal: coverage of deforestation in all of its forms, both legal and illegal, strict traceability, strong due diligence, good definitions based on international work. and lastly, it means avoiding loopholes wherever possible, and appropriate coverage for the largest traders. the commission has been supporting the technical discussion from the outset. we stand ready to continue working with you and the council as an honest broker to find compromises that are agreeable to all. with matching levels of commitment on all sides, i very much hope to see a solid agreement before the end of this year.
the rapporteur. mr president, although i regretted the absence of the czech presidency at the beginning of the session, i am reassured that you are here. i know that the traffic here in strasbourg is not much better than in brussels. i was surprised to see members of the id group speak, because they simply did not appoint fictitious rapporteurs on the matter. so i'm surprised to say the least. i am also very pleased that the commissioner has reassured us by making it clear that he, for his part, wants to close the file again this year. and i am very pleased to be able to work with the czech presidency and hopefully find a compromise by the end of the year, in a trilogue. it was also made clear that a balance must be struck between ambition and practicality. i am completely on your side, commissioner, and i also count on your role as an 'honest broker', as you have said. some of my colleagues have said that this is a first step. yes, indeed, it is the first step, because there will be other legislation that will go hand in hand with it - and i see commissioner reynders here with us - in particular the proposal on the duty of vigilance. i think it should be made clear that the two laws must be aligned, and we have also indicated this in the text. as regards certification, which our colleague mr arena mentioned, it must be said that it is only the risk assessment, in which these data can be used. we want to avoid that the efforts already made by some of the good students have been in vain. they will of course have to fulfil the rest of the obligations that will be imposed on them. i would also like to take up something that pascal canfin said: it is certain that we are not the only consumers of these goods. so if we set the bar too high, these goods will be produced in the same way and exported to other markets. this must be avoided. we must be sure that our legislation is a model and not an anti-model that others will not copy. the united states is watching very closely what we're doing. thank you very much, and vote in favour of this report tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 september 2022. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the making available on the union market and the export from the union of certain basic products and products associated with deforestation and forest degradation. the eu needs to reduce its share of global deforestation, which mainly occurs through its supply chains. the european market must become a market with zero deforestation. to this end, it is necessary to extend the scope of the regulation to any product contributing to deforestation, including maize and products derived from palm oil. it is important to remember that controls will be essential and will be done through vigilance duties for any producer or operator intending to import/export to the eu market. finally, i would urge a vote in favour of including financial institutions in the regulation, given the link between their investments and global deforestation. this report is of great importance, and it is important to support it so that the world's forests remain a source of biodiversity, livelihoods and life for all.
for the greens/efa group mr president, investigative journalists, opposition leaders, opposition meps, our colleague mep nikos androulakis... the list of people bugged by the conservative greek government of mr mitsotakis using the predator spyware keeps growing. in the face of accusations of illegal wiretapping and conflicts of interest, the greek government's reactions - sorry - are a bad joke: there would be no scandal, but a web of lies invented by the press. and yet, public threats are made against officials and the parliamentary committee of inquiry is hampered in its work. the european commission, which is supposed to be the guarantor of european values, is also deafeningly silent. history shows us that without a firm and immediate reaction from the european institutions, the violations of the rule of law are worsening in greece, as in other countries before it. and no european alliance can protect these diversions. we must collectively defend fundamental rights and democratic values. our committee of inquiry must shed light on the actions of member states which deliberately and unlawfully listened to their citizens. in the cradle of democracy, the rule of law is failing. it is therefore up to us to act.
mrs miranda, i do not normally do this, but i have recovered well from my holiday and so have we all, because everyone has a place here, and i hope that the spanish girls will not have a class trip and mrs marques will come along.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i know you from the last election. mr president, i apologize for the delay because i was speaking to a sailor, a fisherman from galicia, who was telling me by telephone about the serious price problems that people in all european countries are suffering from today. i am a member of the european parliament at a very difficult time for europe. it is important and more necessary than ever to speak here of the problems of the working classes, because the peoples and the people have forgotten this european union with their souls and their hearts. the moment many people are living is complicated. we are facing the challenge of responding to a serious economic crisis that has caused a pandemic and a very serious energy crisis that is causing excessive price increases, inflation and a wild belicism. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
president. - last week the european central bank finally raised interest rates to combat the high inflation. too little, too late. people really not only the very poor, but also the middle class have to choose between: a hot shower or a hot meal. life has become priceless. four months ago, i stood here and warned of stagflation, the deadly combination of rising prices and a stagnant economy. what's the next move? we're in the perfect storm. today's problems are the result of past political choices. too low interest rates, too high debt, too high taxes and too big a government, combined with irresponsible climate and energy policies. political choices with disastrous consequences. the european commission and the european central bank can no longer hide from their responsibilities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in one month israel has been responsible for 46 deaths in gaza, including 16 children, and 360 injuries. the situation of 1,200 people in masafer yatta, in the west bank, who are threatened with eviction, who are being driven from their homes. from this ngo in ramallah, which was attacked and closed down while advocating, among other things, for children's rights. airstrikes, bombing of airports in the syrian cities of damascus and aleppo, and admissions of repeated violations of iranian airspace. and how does this parliament react? shut up, he's not talking. yet he loves to talk about international law, human rights and so on. nothing when it comes to israel. israeli crimes are not even on the agenda, imagine that! whereas if another country had done half a quarter of what israel did, we would have called for sanctions right away. so, ladies and gentlemen, a question: how far must israel go before you have the courage to condemn and sanction these acts and violations of international law?
mr president, thank you, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for 500 years europe has not known a drought like today's, which has caused fires, affected the energy sector, but above all the agricultural sector. drought, rising energy and fertilizer prices, and the uncontrolled flow of large quantities of grain from ukraine to european union countries, sold at unbelievably low prices, are putting pressure on the agricultural sector. farmers in europe are being forced to close their farms because of cost prices, and those in the livestock sector are being forced to take their animals to the slaughterhouse because of the lack of fodder destroyed by drought. combating drought requires investment in technologies that enable sustainable water management, and that is what european money is for, commissioner. and remember this, commissioner: without new money for agriculture and without serious investment in irrigation systems, we will face this phenomenon again in the coming years, risking a food crisis which will manifest itself not only in food shortages but also in the fact that it will become unaffordable.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the summer of 2022 was marked by extreme drought, the worst drought in five hundred years. once again our farmers are among the hardest hit, while the agricultural sector was already in crisis. between 2005 and 2016, as many as a thousand farms per day disappeared in europe. a thousand, ladies and gentlemen, because farmers are the weakest link in the chain and there was a crisis: high production costs, low prices, the war in ukraine, and now this extreme drought. i want to be the voice of the farmers here today. i want to call you: have a contingency plan that includes: more agricultural aid for risk prevention and management,more support for water management,more funds for research and innovation. then, ladies and gentlemen, there must be a structural agricultural plan. we must tackle all the problems together, make sure that farmers are a strong link in the chain, make sure that they are strong on a global scale and make sure that production costs are reduced. we must defend the farmers' place in europe. i am a farmer's daughter and i will continue to fight for the survival of farming in europe here in this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank and commend the commitment and courage of the firefighters throughout europe, and also the european solidarity that has been shown. we can only rejoice in these particularly dramatic moments. so yes, it's been over 500 years, according to the numbers, since we've had a drought like this. i fear that we will be doing the same thing again in the years to come. all the evidence suggests that, unfortunately, this is only one episode which will be repeated with perhaps even greater severity in the future. we must mobilize with a strategy, particularly to support the agricultural world. food sovereignty in europe is a key issue for all europeans. support farmers by compensating them, of course, but above all by accompanying them to have a comprehensive strategy on food, on agriculture, in a positive environment and agriculture axis. finally, of course, the union can also act to prevent some countries from losing 40 or 50% of the water in the whole of europe's water supply system, plus all the water routes that need to be created in a spirit of european solidarity. this is how we will succeed, especially with a stronger strategy, in winning this victory in the face of this change.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, prime minister, dear colleagues, perhaps we should tell this secret to everyone: politicians are normal people. they use the bathroom like everyone else. they get sad or scared when something happens. they make love – even when they are not french; this is how they too make kids. we are just normal people, not robots. but some people pretend not to know this, especially when it is about women. ‘who runs the world?’ you would ask. it’s not girls; not yet. there is still a long, long way to go and the price is high because they have no right to make mistakes or simply to live as a young woman in their private life. they are over—scrutinised and pushed to transform into something between a man and a woman, just because you want to serve. some women give up. at times i also considered giving up. but every time you give up you abandon a future where girls and boys can be truly equal and you abandon the possibility to shape that world. you contribute to shape a world where sexism and patronizing remain the norm. things like: ‘your skirt is too short’; ‘your décolleté is too deep – or not enough’; ‘your smile is too bright’; ‘smile’ or ‘no, don’t smile’; ‘be a woman ... but not too much’; ‘what kind of mother are you, actually?’; ‘oh, you have an opinion?!’; ‘perhaps you should be less ambitious?’; or ‘there is only a chair for two men – why don’t you take the sofa when you are in ankara?’. ‘it’s not a place to be as a politician when people are laughing at you ... it was getting really dangerous for her career’ said a former senior politician on the bbc about this young lady here because she is prime minister and also likes to dance. this is europe – not afghanistan – a place where men and women are equal in theory, but in reality equality is not yet accomplished. the truth is, and it has also been my experience, that in europe too, too many women are still not equal to men in politics. you feel it in meeting rooms. you notice it during debates. if you complain they say you are too ‘sensitive’ and you should toughen up – change a little bit who you are, as if being ‘you’ was not enough. as a younger politician, when i was running the first time, i was told by some men to ditch the campaign pictures where i was smiling and wearing a dress and show a more serious face, switch to suits. i struggled in front of my closet whereas i should have been dealing with files instead and smiling as much as i wanted because i like doing that and that is just light coming from the inside. but one size fit all? maybe you want to dress like merkel and clinton? or perhaps you want to be like georgia meloni or alexandria ocasio-cortes? maybe their style is what you fancy? whether you agree with their views or not, these are fierce women who have kept going even when their positions were made impossible or too difficult. like some of them i love dresses and nice shoes. does this make me a bad politician? i also love books and dancing bare feet among my voters in flanders while sharing a beer. or spending a night in my office over files i care about. what else should make me a politician? this is europe, the place where women should be able to lead a country into nato and have fun too. you do not need to become someone else. being human should be more than enough. we need you to keep your head up. show younger girls that politics is also a place for them – a place where they can be themselves and work on serious topics like energy, climate, security and so on. you are not alone. by trying to destabilize you they have made you an icon that i too admire.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after two years, we are finally giving the green light to the european minimum wage. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteurs: you're a good team, and as far as i'm concerned, you'll solve a lot of cases together. finally, because according to eurostat figures, more than 20 million european workers are at risk of poverty. the number of working poor will unfortunately only increase in the coming years due to the effects of the pandemic, inflation and high energy prices. finally, because research shows that countries with a strong tradition of collective bargaining have higher minimum wages and less wage inequality. in fact, in member states with low minimum wages, poverty is highest. this is why this agreement is so important to many millions of europeans and why the directive seeks to strengthen the involvement of the social partners in all member states. i would like to conclude with the words of the president of the commission in her 2020 state of the union address: everyone should have access to minimum wages, because minimum wages work and it's time work paid off. colleagues, i call on you to support this case.
madam president, prices have been soaring for a year! one year people are afraid to see their bills coming home and one year it's blabbering to the european union without changing anything at all in people's bills. and even today, you're not prepared to propose a gas price freeze, you're not prepared to propose a freeze on people's bills, and you're proposing a cap on electricity prices that is so high that multinational companies will continue to make excess profits. it's still too crazy! clearly, you're not getting the urgency of people. and i understand: what do you gain? from 10 to 20 thousand euros a month? for you, a bill is nothing, but for people, it's a nightmare every day. and we should not try to deny the responsibility of the european political world because everyone, from the right to the environmentalists, has said: 'we must give all this power to a few multinationals'. so we liberalized the market, it was going to guarantee low prices, it was going to guarantee everything we wanted. well, in the end, today we see that your market is a failure and people are paying the bill every day. so let's go back, let's take back public control of this sector.
madam president, madam president of the commission, thank you for your brilliant presentation of the state of the union. but i think that we can speak more of the union's positive development, and that is due to a change of paradigm. if the financial crisis was met with austerity, social destruction and division, in the face of these crises we have opted for social protection, unity, solidarity and the interests of the majority against those of the few. we have put citizens back at the centre of our political action. we have two urgent tasks: firstly, to prevent the cuts and blackouts this winter in european households and businesses, and secondly, to curb runaway inflation by helping the most disadvantaged. the spanish socialists therefore welcome the measures you have proposed in this connection, which are the same measures that the spanish government has been proposing and implementing for over a year. i am glad to see that they are finally being taken up again at european level, but it is unfortunate that the right wing in my country is rejecting them one by one, just to try to bring down the government. but you won't.
mrs von der leyen, ladies and gentlemen, 'hope is us when we do not close our eyes to those in need, when we do not build walls on our borders, when we fight every form of injustice'. these words of david sassoli should also be remembered today and serve as a warning to us all. our europe, as you have rightly stressed, must open a convention to reform itself, to abandon the right of veto, to finally have the powers necessary to protect our citizens from war, from inflation, with the european roof on energy costs, which is still blocked by the nationalist right in poland and by the ultra-liberal right in the netherlands. the package for the defence of democracy which you announced today is very important. i hope the league will vote for it, after abstaining on a resolution on the same issues, the only party in my country, italy. the italian right has unfortunately not broken with these ambiguities and, with fratelli d'italia by giorgia meloni, hopes for trump's return and flirts with those who have achieved brexit. that is why they are, as always, against our interests as italians and europeans. but nationalism has already lost on this continent and, despite the shameful complicity of the so-called moderates, it will be stopped again this time. i'm sure you will.
madam president, i welcome the european commission's willingness to continue its support and solidarity with ukraine and the ukrainian people who are fighting for our common freedom against russian aggression. the bulgarian motto 'unity makes strength' should also be a guiding principle for the members of the european council. the more united we are on all issues - energy prices, the recovery and competitiveness of our european economy, social compensation and the creation of a hydrogen market - the faster we will overcome the challenges ahead. as we speak now, madam president, high representative and president of the council, we have another armed conflict on the sovereign territory of armenia. i urge you very much that the european union is doing its utmost to stop this killing of people. in the last two days, tens, if not hundreds of people are killed. the civil infrastructure is destroyed. this has to stop. i don't believe that the russians are interested in a long-term peaceful solution. they like to stay there and have their influence there, but not to have a peace in the caucasus region. so it's up to us, the european union, to take the role of a mediator to stop this conflict.
the commission has already done so. i thank you for your proposals to deal with the energy price crisis. to cap prices, to squeeze profits - that's all right. i think it is a very good idea to separate the price of electricity from the price of gas, at least temporarily. and who knows, maybe we can come up with something that works better in peacetime. and the most important thing is the gas price cap. unfortunately, all we hear so far is what is not possible and that new proposals are being worked on. i hope this is quick. mrs von der leyen, i think that when you talk about the state of the eu, you cannot be silent about the state of the rule of law and democracy in the eu. this gap in your speech must not mean that the subject is off the agenda. because if the eu is to fall apart, it will be because of this.
go raibh maith agat a uachtaráin agus comhghairdeachas (thank you for your thoughts) ursula as ucht an aithisc lies to thug you in us. thank you, ursula, for staying for the entirety of the debate. you spoke a lot about energy, and rightly so. and to your credit, you're going around the world trying to get lng supplies for europe. but i'm sorry to say that in my country we have an opportunity to build an lng terminal free of charge for the government, which one arm of government is blocking. we also have vast gas resources off our coast which are not being utilized, and yet we are largely dependent on one pipeline from the united kingdom. and today the united kingdom said if russia cuts off gas supplies to europe, then there will be gas rationing and electricity outages in the united kingdom and ireland. so i would ask you to ask countries like ireland to use the resources and opportunities they have and not to be skimping on the supplies that other member states need, and also to remove the roadblocks to the deployment of renewables, especially planning and permitting. and one final request, maybe not to put the clocks back this winter to save energy.
i have to say, madam president, the biggest test of a community is how you handle the crises you face together. and if putin thought that by invading ukraine he could divide us, could divide the eu, he was wrong! we have shown that when international rules and european values are under attack, we stand together. we did that during the coronavirus, and now the inflation and energy crisis are threatening. the companies are threatened with extinction. citizens are threatened with eviction. we need to figure this out. but the crisis is not just a threat to our economies. it also threatens our future. more and more in the eu are openly talking about the need to relax our green ambitions, to postpone some of our green initiatives. that's not the way to go. my message today is therefore very simple: the inflation and energy crises must not be a stopgap for the green transition. it's supposed to be a stepping stone. we're not going to slow down, we're going to speed up. the eu has shown that we stand together when it counts. it is also time that we show that unity in the face of the climate crisis.
madam president of the parliament, madam president of the commission, thank you for your inspiring speech, which should inspire us all. thank you for reminding us that the union's strength lies in being able to act together, united. thank you also for once again expressing your solidarity with the ukrainian people. what is at stake in ukraine is also our future and the future of our children. thank you for saying that so forcefully. you have also proposed very concrete and short-term measures in the energy sector. you know how many families in our countries are in a state of despair, and how many businesses are in great difficulty. yes, you dared to propose, and it was quite right, to make the large energy companies contribute, which have benefited from the elements and colossal budgets spontaneously, without any real costs associated with these companies. yes, this contribution, this taxation, will make it possible to free up resources, and you are right to ask that these resources be allocated to the most vulnerable households and to our companies which are in difficulty. it is also essential to try to decouple the gas and electricity markets in the future to avoid these additional costs for our companies and households in the future. and finally, and most importantly, it is essential to have laid the foundations for a european strategy to achieve greater sovereignty, energy autonomy. madam president, i naturally hope that the european council and all those who have spoken in recent times will show the same diligence, the same speed of implementation, because the emergency is upon us. the urgency of supporting ukraine, but also the urgency, of course, of supporting all our fellow citizens so that they believe in a stronger, more united europe. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by mr glinne)
question with a blue card. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you the following: are you satisfied with the way the president of the commission described the change in the new model of decoupling the price of gas from the price of electricity? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial impact of the single market. you know, tomorrow i'm going to my city, thessaloniki, and i have to explain to the citizens what solidarity means in practice in this difficult winter. all the measures proposed today by the european commission have already been adopted by greece. what's the next step? how soon will he come.
the answer is 'blue card'. so i do wish we had more important details about this decoupling. it's a good thing to decouple and make sure that the electricity that is not produced from gas is not impacted more and does not impact our businesses and our families as strongly. it's a good decision for the future, i think. what we are trying to avoid, to correct through this taxation of excess profits, is simply because companies in the field of renewable energy or nuclear energy have made colossal profits without any cost justification. so we have to consider this decoupling. you are right, the commission and the council are expected to go into more detail tomorrow. the principles and objectives set by the president of the commission are in the right direction, in the simple sense of supporting our businesses, households and all associations.
the intervention requested by the blue card draw. so, the european court of human rights is nearby. you're very complimentary about this report. we've heard a lot of demagogy, and of the concrete things that hungary is to blame, we've only heard from the commissioner about the two lawsuits that are being brought against hungary. so i don't see the european court of human rights condemning hungary in the way you would want to condemn it. so my question is: do you consider yourself more competent than the european court of human rights to interpret human rights?
president, ladies and gentlemen, hungary is a free country that makes its own choices. they reject unwanted mass immigration and opt for secure borders. they reject forced multiculturalism and choose to preserve their identity. they reject gender ideology and opt for the normality of the family where a mother is a woman, a father is a man, and a child can still be a child. we may agree with these choices or disagree with them, but above all they are democratic choices made by the hungarians themselves in complete freedom. and we have to respect that. is not 'united in diversity' the slogan of the european union? but that's not to the liking of the globalist elite. the diversity of europe is exactly what's standing in the way of their imperial plans. they want to transform the european union into a centralized superstate. that is why they want to dismantle the sovereignty of states and erase the identity of peoples, in order to finally subject free citizens to the will of unelected bureaucrats. it is not hungary, but the european union that is trampling on european values. it is not hungary, but the european union that does not respect the democratic rule of law. the european commission's punitive expeditions against that country are a warning to all other member states. one day they'll come for you. hungary and viktor orbán are just in their way.
mr. president, please! the european union was founded for peace and to protect freedom, democracy and the rule of law, of which a free and independent media is also a key part. i am very sorry to have to warn you, my dear, of the worrying and intolerable situation at radio television slovenia. after two years of rule by janez janša, and after he declared war on the media, the bitter battle for the slovenian press agency is now being fought by rtv. the political leadership or the political takeover of the leadership was followed first by the blockage of the necessary legislative changes. now, the viewers are watching the dismantling of the institution itself, with the cancellation of the programs about the restriction of journalistic freedom and editorial autonomy and the threats of sanctions from the leadership. what's happening on rtv, my dear, is politicization and dying on meals. i therefore call on you, and in particular on the commission, to take immediate and decisive action before it is too late.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year this report on the rule of law becomes more and more a disgusting, erroneous, illegitimate and above all disgusting mess of blatant partiality and nauseating ideological bias. behind the beautiful words, he is really talking about lgbt promotion, subversion of the traditional way of life and ideological hatred against poland and hungary, supported by their peoples. in contrast, when the soviet system, communism and its 100 million dead, oppressed poles and hungarians for decades, almost nothing was heard from the fathers you claim. your hypocrisy is all the more glaring given that there was a major violation of fundamental rights in 2020 and 2021: with the pandemic, tens of millions of europeans, under the state of emergency, were locked up in their homes, tracked by computers, deprived of freedom of movement or demonstration, controlled by the police in every act of their lives, forced to undergo medical acts. this report says nothing about that. because, at bottom, the european union does not care about fundamental rights. for them, they are just an ideological weapon to be invoked when needed, and ignored otherwise. the people's awakening, today in france, yesterday in sweden, tomorrow in italy, will punish you, i am convinced.
president, commissioner, abuse of power is what concerns me. i am concerned about the respect of human rights, but i am also concerned about the political abuse of human rights. this report on fundamental rights in the eu undermines the principle, because this report is political and goes far beyond fundamental rights. it's a pamphlet, with unproven claims and suspicion. it is a report unworthy of the eu. the universal declaration of human rights is the basis of the international system for the protection of human beings and fundamental rights in the eu. by distinguishing between certain subgroups, such as lgbtq and roma, we weaken the principle of non-discrimination. by taking up general grievances about the misery people inflict on one another, we water down the foundation. a report on fundamental rights should transcend political boundaries and political authority and remind governments of their duty to respect the fundamental rights of all persons. it must be factual, complete and accurate, and unfortunately this report is not.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, inflation is soaring, energy is becoming unaffordable and the economy is in danger of falling into a deep crisis. so what are we gonna do now? we are discussing yet another report by the extreme left on human rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination against women. there's racism in the air. there's a lot of police violence. gypsies and muslims are treated badly. gender ideology is not worshipped everywhere, and so on, and so on. this lengthy 'ivorentor text' contains 48 considerations and 99 recommendations. it has cost thousands of man-hours and is of course supported by the left - the greens, the communists and the socialists - but also by the christian democrats and the liberals. and i really wonder if their constituents have a message to send.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, what i notice, ladies and gentlemen, is that you have achieved the feat this morning of talking about industry without mentioning the workers. yet it is the workers who create wealth and without workers, there is simply no industry. but by the way, this is your lucky day because across europe, workers, unions are offering alternatives to the current european industrial policy. because what is the european industrial policy doing? basically, his philosophy is to give the maximum of incentives, support, subsidies to the big multinationals, praying, hoping that in return they invest, they keep the jobs, etc. hope often disappointed because multinationals pocket and then close, they still go and relocate in the name of the market and competitiveness. that can be different, colleagues, let's even look at the netherlands, at the ijmuiden. the factory of tata steel, where the workers were able to work thanks to a 24-day long strike, forced the company not only to keep jobs, but also to invest in the climate transition by saying: "we are going to replace coal with green water for the production of steel". good for the climate, good for jobs and for the future of industry in europe. examples of this kind are found all over europe. it's all about power. so instead of giving in to the whims of the employers who only think of flooding their shareholders with billions, instead of selling what is in reality a policy of subsidies by the big employers as industrial policy, let us try to take this publicly and seriously and take back the reins of industrial policy in europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, dear colleagues, as you all know, there is a new coup in burkina faso and jihadists are taking over – more than 40% of the country for the moment. russian influence is getting visible and western interests, like the french embassy in ouagadougou, have been under attack. this is not a local issue, but a geopolitical one. several times i have already drawn the plenary’s attention to the jihadist rise in the sahel region. it is high time for our plenary to deal with this urgent matter and add it urgently to the agenda. my group therefore requests to add this item to the agenda as a debate this week, and we are aware of the fact that the plenary agenda is packed. so perhaps october ii will be more suited for a resolution, but we need to have the debate urgently now. i hope you will support this.
everyone in leadership has an economic choice before them that is increasingly important in challenging times like the ones we are living in today. either the path of nationalist austerity parties who put any new burden on families and businesses because they believe the market will steal, or the path of a progressive economy that invests in people, invests in families and invests in businesses. and let me, madam president, talk about what countries are doing because the progressive, people-centred economy is one that is delivering results and has delivered results over the last nine years, with the highest rates of economic growth in europe and the lowest unemployment rates in our history. and i want to encourage others, including the european commission, that by reducing the burdens on families and businesses you are creating an economic climate that brings and incentivises more growth and more economic strength. a country that, despite having not stopped helping families and businesses since the start of the pandemic and now during the war, still has its plan for the country's finances that remained on track under european rules. i therefore urge the european commission and other member states to follow suit.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us not go around the bush. let us assume that the energy market is a failure and that opening up this sector to competition is one of the worst decisions taken and imposed by the european union on the member states. this market allows, in times of crisis, for some energy companies to produce electricity at €40 per megawatt to sell it quietly at €1,000 per megawatt, for maximum profit for shareholders, at the expense of millions of people who will no longer be able to pay heating bills and who are shamefully asked to wear a collar if they are cold in winter. in the face of such a scandal, the measures proposed by the commission and the council are not up to the task. what we need is to fully recover our ability to make our own decisions in the energy field. we must move away from the european energy market to a public energy hub whose action will be dictated solely by the general interest. public management that protects the most vulnerable, that plans according to needs, that uses the revenues from production to deploy renewable energy, that defends our energy sovereignty against foreign powers. energy is a common good that should no longer be monopolized and that we must manage and protect.
madam president, on monday an implementing act of the european commission comes into force, which is a death blow to the spanish fishing industry, one more blow. i sincerely believe that the commission has exceeded its powers and we also have doubts whether the relevant and most up-to-date scientific reports have been taken into account. the commission says yes, that it does so on the basis of the data which it has received and that it has not received any more up-to-date data. the member states, and spain in particular, say that they did, that they contributed. in any case, the situation is very serious. the commission has to explain with data and dates whether the duties have been done and whether the rules have been complied with. also, if there's been any kind of negligence that's caused us to be in this situation. in any case, whoever is responsible, those who are certainly not responsible are our fishermen, and that is why we must find a solution now. the application of this act can and must be suspended and must be suspended before monday.
mr president, last week i was in antwerp and met workers who were building a new factory at borealis. they were recruited by an italian company, irem. these are proud people, skilled people with experience and people who help build our country and our continent. they came from bangladesh, turkey, ukraine. before they came here, they were lured with all kinds of false promises and sometimes even false contracts through a chain of subcontractors; they went through hungary, without work, without pay, to portugal. there, too, no work, no pay, hardly any money to eat. then in antwerp: exploited and threatened. eleven hours a day, six days a week! yes, it is absolutely inconceivable that this could happen within the european union, and certain rules within the european union make it easier! for example, why do we not limit the number of levels of subcontracting to one level? or why don't we make the prime contractor responsible for wages and working conditions? i mean, it's got to be now, right?
president, commissioner, people with disabilities belong in our society. not on the edge, not on the sidelines, but in the middle! they want to be able to participate in economic, social and cultural life like everyone else. they do not want to be pampered from a caring perspective, but to be able to develop their talents and skills to the full. unfortunately, they still face too many obstacles. for example, people with reduced mobility in several member states have problems taking public transport. people with hearing or vision problems often have difficulty finding or keeping a job. people with disabilities sometimes have to move across the country to find suitable accommodation. so the rudder must be turned: this has to change! that is why we support the proposal, commissioner, to set up a european centre, 'accessibleeu'. here's an example of how it should be done: the pilot project will also provide information on the impact of the accessibility of the internet on the health of citizens and the environment, as well as on the impact of the use of the internet on the health of citizens and the environment.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, dear colleagues, the women who are now rising up against the islamic brutality in iran know what freedom is and why we must protect it. those who defend the headscarf in europe should take a good look at these women and learn what real courage is: it is not in the veil. it is also not inside a dependent man. a dependent man is a healthy man who cannot cook his own meal, who cannot do his own dishes, who cannot clean his own house, control his own sexuality, do his own damn laundry or be responsible for his own life. i can understand that men cannot bear children, but i strongly refuse to be enslaved as a woman, refuse to see women be enslaved today, tortured and killed because they want to wear a t-shirt. this darkness that many still carry must stop. therefore, all men should become independent and self-sufficient. that is your best contribution to the emancipation of women. an independent man is a healthy man who does all his things by himself and picks the right side in the fight for freedom. it is a man who is not scared of women’s intelligence and potential, not scared of their opinions, not scared of their ideas or sexuality. it is a man who knows that men are responsible for their own sexuality. it’s a man who does not expect his wife or daughter to wear a hijab to protect men from their femininity. he clearly takes their side in the fight against the subjection of women. as women, we must also take our own side and fight to be first, work together to be respected. the iranian women are showing us the way. a woman died for freedom. together, we need to say that we understand how they feel and support them.
this is a press release. on the basis of a proposal from the juri committee, parliament is examining the mandates of ms patricia chagnon, ms marie dauchy, ms marina mesure, i apologize if i am wrong, mr eric minardi, which entered into force on 29 july 2022, as well as the mandates of ms ana miranda, which entered into force on 5 september 2022, and of mr joão albuquerque, which entered into force on 13 september 2022.
the next item is the timetable for the meeting (pm/pm) (rule 137) i have the honour to invite mr borel to participate in this debate. question time: increased tensions between armenia and azerbaijan following the recent military escalation. this question period will last approximately 60 minutes. there is one minute for the question, two minutes for the answer, 30 seconds for the supplementary question and two minutes for the supplementary question. i would remind you that a possible supplementary question may be put only if it is closely related to the main question and is not a new question. if you wish to ask a question, i encourage you to register your request now using the free microphone function in your voting machine after you have inserted your voting card. during the question period, the speakers will be present at the venue and i would ask all speakers to respect the time allocated for speaking. colleagues may need a few moments to register their request to ask a question using the voting machine. so i'm going to invite you to submit your request now, and we're going to start with the first question.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the european union, from the beginning, has done what it can do, which is to call on the parties to show restraint and to dialogue and to a ceasefire, a ceasefire which has certainly been violated. you have referred to the role of turkey. of course, it is no secret to anyone, that turkey continues to support azerbaijan. peace and stability in that region, however, is also in turkey's interest, now in particular, after the russian aggression against ukraine. we are asking turkey to use its influence to help reduce tensions between the two countries. we certainly welcome the willingness expressed by turkey in relation to armenia to work towards the normalization of their mutual relations. it is important that the opening of the borders between armenia and turkey should take place, because that will help to reduce tensions. as for the continuation of the fighting, fortunately it has decreased in intensity. from the beginning, as i say, president michel and i, at our respective levels, have been actively involved in calling on the parties to cease hostilities and to restore the ceasefire.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honour, i would like to be able to bring about peace in the south caucasus and in many other places where it is needed. but unfortunately we have only the means we have: political influence and the conditioning of the countries intervening in this region. we have a special representative who is in constant contact with the two contending countries and with the european members of the minsk group, and we are offering humanitarian aid. that's what we can do and what we do. if you have any other ideas, i'd appreciate it if you'd share them with me.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honor, thank you. obviously, the account you give corresponds to reality. we are sure that azerbaijan has bombed areas that are deep inside armenian territory using artillery and drones and that this is certainly not the continuation of fighting over a disputed area but the occupation of a part of armenian territory. both countries blame themselves for the start of this ceasefire break. but what seems clear to me is that azerbaijan has bombed and occupied a part of the armenian territory in this area. your question is the same as the honourable member's: what more can they do? well, we can't do much more than we do. we do what we can with the manpower, the possibilities and the capabilities we have. i insist, if you have any ideas about what i should do, i would appreciate it if you would tell me so that i can share and discuss them. we have a special envoy who works every day going from place to place, trying to calm things down. we have the president of the european council, who meets with the two highest-level representatives of the two contending countries. we facilitate meetings between them so that they can directly start peace negotiations. we finance the demining of territories where mines are causing many civilian casualties. since the conflict started again we started all these contacts, and more. we are asking for an investigation so that we can find out what has happened to these videos showing armenian soldiers prisoners of war being killed. the azerbaijanis themselves have said that they will start an investigation into this. we are working to have the committee responsible for delimiting the borders meet in brussels before the end of this month. it is not so easy to get the committee which has to draw up the borders to meet and work. we have not spared diplomatic efforts, we have mobilized the resources at our disposal. we have proposed that there should be a european union mediation mission deployed at the border. armenia is in agreement, but azerbaijan is not. what do you want me to do? that he sends european union troops without the agreement of the two parties to the conflict? i'm sure you didn't, did you?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honour, you refer to the agreement with azerbaijan to increase our gas supply. yes, it does. azerbaijan is giving us, no, it's selling us, naturally, nobody gives anything for free in the gas market today, it's giving us, it gave us last year, even before these incidents, 8 million cubic feet of natural gas. and this year, thanks to this agreement, we are going to get a substantial increase from 8 to 12, that is, a 50% increase. this has not been in return for any political concession in the conflict and i am sure the europeans will appreciate that in the present circumstances the president of the commission, herself, has travelled to azerbaijan to negotiate this agreement, which offers the possibility that this winter all europeans as a whole will have the necessary energy supply. that gas will go through the southern corridor. it will not be received by all europeans, but i am sure that those who will receive it will be very pleased. in any case, i can assure you that this energy agreement has not been to the detriment of any human rights or democratic problems that have arisen in that country.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the honourable member will be aware that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the reality we can see is very sad; there are about 300 dead soldiers, of whom 200 (207, to be exact) are armenians. it is an absolutely obvious fact, verifiable, that the artillery of azerbaijan and its drone units have bombed areas in the territory of armenia, destroying civilian and military infrastructure and that azerbaijan is occupying positions in armenia. we have said that this is completely unacceptable. the army, the troops of azerbaijan, are currently occupying positions in armenia. it does not respect the internationally recognized border. the forces of both are so close together that the risk of further collisions is virtually unavoidable. you are right: that this happened after the two leaders had assured the president of the council of their willingness to reach agreements and not resort to armed clashes is not exactly the best way of inspiring, of inspiring us, confidence in the framework of the diplomatic efforts that president michel is developing. i assume that the commission president was not referring to that, but to azerbaijan's compliance with the signed gas contracts. one thing doesn't take away the other. we certainly have a problem at the moment with the reliability of the political dialogues that have been initiated. our argument is to call for the return of troops fighting within internationally recognized borders. we know that this will not be easy, because we are still in the process of delimiting and demarcating the border, which, moreover, is the immediate cause of the confrontation between these two countries. that is why we are doing everything possible to get the committee responsible for delimiting the borders to resume its work (it will do so here in brussels in the coming weeks) in order to avoid future incidents like this.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam member, thank you for your encouragement. i'm actually on the move. we are in all the areas you mentioned. your goals are our goals. everything you said needs to be done, we are currently trying to do, with more or less good fortune. you are right, of course: if russia invades ukraine and starts a war of aggression, why can't another country do the same? that is why we oppose the russian invasion of ukraine and why we are working with our limited capacities to try to achieve the objectives you have so admirably summed up.
mr president, dear high representative, peace and stability in the south caucasus region can be only a result of serious and irreversible confidence-building measures. all prisoners of war must be released and all hostilities must stop immediately. the eu must play a very important role as a mediator. russia, we see very clearly, is not interested in solving the issue, but is interested to have a leverage to stay there in the region and to increase their influence. i was shocked by the recently published videos on these atrocities committed against armenian prisoners of war. a full and impartial investigation must identify those responsible and they must be held accountable. so my concrete question is: is the european union ready to participate in this investigation to find out what exactly is happening, who is responsible? and to be very clear also on azerbaijan, that azerbaijan must clearly distance itself from these perpetrators and condemn all kind of violence. a second question one: does the eu have a plan for confidence-building steps between armenia and azerbaijan? and this is very concrete what needs to be done – returning of all prisoners of war – that was the resolution of the european parliament, the goal was to stop all hostilities, achieving a clear demarcation of border and finding a sustainable resolution of the karabakh conflict.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i could have done that, obviously. of course, that's all that needs to be done. i agree with you. and like you, i was terrified by the sight of these videos, which must be verified for authenticity. azerbaijan itself has confirmed its willingness to open an investigation. armenia has requested that either the osce or the european union send a fact-finding mission. we're ready to do that. we are certainly prepared to do so, at least in an intermediate way until the osce is able to deploy this mission. but of course, for that to happen, both parties must want it. and i agree once again with your analysis and your requests. the war must end. the conflict in nagorno-karabakh must be resolved. the only thing i can tell you is that, aside from expressing wishful thinking, which i share, we do everything possible to succeed.
a concrete question: did you contact president aliyev and prime minister pashinyan for a possible date of their next meeting? under eu mediation for sure.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. no, no, no, i didn't say i contacted the two presidents. i didn't say that. i did not say that i had contacted the two presidents, i said that we were working to get the committee on borders, which is not made up of the two presidents, to meet here in brussels. i said that the two presidents had met with president michel and that, despite this contact, the fighting had resumed. but i, at my level, am not the interlocutor of the two presidents, i speak with the foreign ministers. and i did that, i told them both to go back to their positions so that the fighting would stop.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i am of course going to answer the question of mr sánchez de amor, who is motivated by the best intentions of trying to get the european union to use the instruments at its disposal to change the position of turkey, which, as everyone knows, continues to support azerbaijan. what we are asking turkey to do is to use its influence to help reduce tensions between the two countries. turkey can and must play a positive role in trying to establish a dialogue between these two countries, for the benefit of the people affected by the war. it is true that turkey is an ally within nato, but that does not prevent it from attending meetings in samarkand with president putin, nor does it prevent it from playing the role that everyone knows in the south caucasus. i think one thing doesn't make the other one. or at least, at the moment, no one has detected, no nato member has detected any incompatibility in these actions.
mr. high representative, the two leaders of both countries have committed themselves on several occasions to continue negotiating a possible peace agreement, the last time being in august. we have seen the latest of azerbaijan's aggressions, this time inside armenian territory. it seems as if baku would like to take advantage of the moment to strengthen its negotiating position in relation to these negotiations to reach an agreement, especially in relation to nagorno karabakh. moreover, our growing energy dependence on azerbaijan, with the new gas contracts, certainly gives azerbaijan a stronger geopolitical position. but at the same time, i have the feeling that we are eroding armenia's confidence in our ability to bring about an agreement. my question, mr borrell, is this: do you think that, in these circumstances, we still have enough influence over azerbaijan to try to mediate and achieve a just, lasting and sustainable agreement?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honor, thank you. i hope so, but i can't guarantee that.
president. - mr borrell, this way. we are in a political arena here, so we want clear political action. not words, but actions. azerbaijan is the aggressor, and we are not going to stop azerbaijan from having a political dialogue. azerbaijan is only sensitive to action. so my question is: we have to stop the aggressor azerbaijan. for example, you asked: but come up with your ideas that can be done by, for example, breaking the gas contract with them today or at least freezing it. so my question is specific to you: how are we gonna stop this aggressor? not with words, but with deeds. and i suggest: freeze or stop the gas contract.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i do not know what the question is, because you have announced your intention to do something. if you're asking me if i think that's going to happen, my answer is no.
mr borrell, being balanced is like the title i see here: tensions between armenia and azerbaijan. being impartial means that we should be straight on the facts. around midnight on 12 september this year, the azerbaijani armed forces launched a large-scale military attack against the republic of armenia in several directions from the eastern part of armenia-azerbaijan border. in this pre—planned attack, they used heavy artillery against numerous cities and nearby villages. also, this has been an unprovoked and unjustified aggression against the sovereignty of armenia. i can go on and on, but i’m going to ask you a few questions. are you ready to consider proposing sanctions against azerbaijan? second, to ask for turkey to exert its influence on azerbaijan is unfortunate, to say the least, for one good reason: turkey is part of ... (the president cut off the speaker)
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honour, one question, i only understood one question, about sanctions, but i did not understand another. perhaps you can try to rephrase it on the next shift. as far as sanctions are concerned, i can tell you that to my knowledge no member state has put such a proposal on the table. and, as you know, sanctions are approved by the member states.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i have not detected any question in your speech that is worth answering. because the comparison between blood and oil seems to me completely out of place, your honor. you may make whatever speech you think is appropriate, but i thought we were in a debate where i was being asked serious questions that i could answer.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honor, i naturally condemn all war crimes, wherever they occur and whoever perpetrates them.
mr president, mr borrel wants to ask you some questions. i'll ask you a question, mr high representative. why are you so timid, so withdrawn on the question of armenia and azerbaijan, when we know you are very active, and often at the forefront of the fighting on other issues. because, after all, there are facts. there's a perpetrator and a perpetrator. there are war crimes, with this horrific video showing azerbaijani soldiers shooting at close range at armenian prisoners of war. and what bothers me is that this is why you are asked the question incessantly, why europe is not reacting more firmly? i understand the embarrassment, because, as has been said, mrs von der leyen went to sign a very big agreement with azerbaijan. but at the same time, you can see that europeans might feel that there are two weights, two measures. we come to be in unison, firm in condemning the russian aggression against ukraine, and that is normal, but you are afraid, in retreat, when it comes to saying what is happening in armenia, that is to say an aggression characterized by an aggressor that must be strongly condemned and sanctioned, sanctioned because there are international conventions to which azerbaijan is a signatory, and those who are perpetrators of war crimes will have to be held accountable and held to account. that is why we are asking you the question.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. your honor, thank you very much. of course, you are free to ask me all the questions you want and to repeat them as many times as you think necessary, and i can give you the answer i have already given you several times. how can you imagine that i condemn any act that violates human rights any less than you do? where do you get your moral superiority? i condemn it as much as you do. of course i did. and i have already explained to them that we condemn all acts which involve a violation of human rights and that we are asking for investigations and for accountability. those videos are awesome. there's gonna be an investigation into that, right? there'll have to be an investigation. it's what azerbaijan itself has said it was going to do. you may distrust the outcome of this investigation out of self-interest. armenia has asked for fact-finding missions from the osce and the european union. i said we're willing to do it. i have told them that we recognize the existence of an attack within armenian territory and that in that attack azerbaijani troops have occupied part of armenian territory and we call for their withdrawal. we are doing everything we can to bring the situation to a normal state, to bring an end to hostilities, to bring troops back, to bring accountability to those who may have committed acts against human rights. what more can i say, your honor? as much as i may be outraged, the facts and my capacity for action remain the same.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, the countries of our political environment are invited to this meeting by the president of the council. azerbaijan is invited as a country with which we have an association agreement, which, to my knowledge, this parliament has not asked to be suspended. when you speak of the european union, let me say that you are also the european union. that this parliament is also the european union. and if you think there's any initiative to be taken, take it. and if you do not want azerbaijan to be invited, you have a very easy way of doing it: ask this house to suspend the association agreement.
thank you, high representative. i think we have to close our debate here as we are running very late. the high representative has a schedule and we will not continue like that. we have had 12 speakers according to the d’hondt system, and 5 minutes, it’s the case. would you like to say something on procedure, mr castaldo?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to protest because you said during this debate that you would apply the d'hondt method and you excluded the grouping of non-attached persons from the d'hondt method. i think that is very undemocratic, because we are members of parliament ourselves. in a democracy, votes are counted and not weighed, and i think that we too would have had the right, as would all the other groups, which have had at least one speaker, to be able to speak. i followed the whole debate. i made my reservation in time and i consider this choice to be highly undemocratic and unfair. we have the right to be deputies like the others. we are not children of a lesser god in this parliament.
yes, i agree, but with regard to the timing we are way behind schedule. that’s why it was my decision. i agree it’s not democratic, but it’s the situation. thank you for understanding.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in burkina faso following the coup d'état (2022/2865 ((rsp)). as you can see, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy will be represented by commissioner urpilainena.
on behalf of the vpc/hr. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, as you have been able to follow over the past few days, the situation has been particularly tense in burkina faso. we have witnessed what we can call a coup de force by captain traoré, who brought together a large part of the army to overthrow the president of the transition, damiba. for the record, the latter had already come to power on 24 january 2022, thanks to a military coup overthrowing president kaboré. for the european union, this coup in the coup is particularly regrettable. we had strongly supported ecowas in their mediation efforts to find a way forward with the new burkinabe authorities. we had engaged politically with the transition authorities to encourage them on this path, with commitments to reengage. the hr/vp had met president damiba in new york two weeks ago and we were ready to boost our cooperation with the country, including in the field of defence and security, while continuing our support to the people of burkina faso. important discussions are taking place between ecowas and the new authorities in burkina faso as we speak. we look forward to these discussions leading to positive and constructive conclusions, which respect the commitments made at the time of the removal of president damiba. if these agreements are respected and there is a clear sense of good will, we will need to grasp it and show in a firm and convincing way that we stand together with the people of burkina faso in fighting terrorism, combating the humanitarian crisis and supporting the return to constitutional order. certainly, burkina faso will need external support. the current challenge is to convince the new junta that, even if the wagner option is tempting, those mercenaries are objectively ineffective in the fight against terrorism in the sahel, and we can witness this more and more in mali every day. so, colleagues, we will need some time to assess whether burkina faso and the european union can continue as partners. we will work to do our part to sustain our strong support to the people of burkina faso.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the last time we had a debate here in february on the situation in burkina faso, commissioner dali spoke on behalf of the commission and said that the union would respond to the changed situation in burkina faso, encourage a return to democracy and make the fight against terrorism a priority. it must be mrs. let's face it, this is real. the union's action so far has produced very little result. the intent was there. in june, religious extremists carried out an attack in pansy that killed 100 people, causing thousands to flee the area. and last week, the successful military takeover of ouagadougou by captain ibrahim traoré overthrew the previous coup. this is a very worrying situation. but it must be seen that this is not a problem specific to burkina faso. in west africa, this was the seventh successful military takeover since 2020. the successive coups d'état have destabilised the entire sub-saharan region, giving rise to the growth of religious extremism, including the local islamic state group. we recognise that the real potential for eu action lies in the coordination of rtd as a multiplier between member states and international organisations, and between local partners. i repeat, the coordination. the european union cannot do anything about the situation on its own. madam high representative, madam commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. what opportunities do you see for this coordinated action? how do you know that the union intends to coordinate credibly the action of the various international and eu actors in the current situation in burkina faso?
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, the sahel is a major concern for europe. what is happening in burkina faso today is a sign of the political collapse of the states in the region. the french military intervention in mali in 2013, when the islamic state was already in power in syria and iraq, prevented a second terrorist hotbed from being established in the sahel. this intervention was necessary. the big mistake that followed was made by the european union, which left france isolated. if europe had intervened more, it would have cut short the hostile propaganda linked to france's colonial past. the malian and burkinabe states have been seriously destabilized in recent years by the rise of islamist armed groups. each coup is a new signal of their failure in the fight against terrorism, and the frantic pace of these repeated coups indicates an end to the cycle. all of this could unfortunately lead to a decisive victory for the islamists. so what do you do? europe will have to be operational as soon as the coup-plotters have finally failed. those who are ready to take over must be assured of a cooperation framework which is immediately operational. if this vast area of the sahel falls permanently into the hands of islamists, europe will inevitably suffer the consequences. we therefore call on the external action service to coordinate the initiative and on the member states to provide it with means of action, including military, which are not limited to those of the french army alone, which is vulnerable to smear campaigns given its colonial past.
on behalf of the group of the european right president, ladies and gentlemen, burkina faso means: the land of the honest people. and it is. and it's not in my habits, but i'm going to say something also in french, because we have seen, in burkina faso, a very good collaboration, for a long time, with france, and today a new colonisation, as my colleague nathalie loiseau has said, which is: the russian cell. the secular country that i knew no longer exists, because it has been destroyed by the islamists and is now adrift. without leadership, it will not be possible to revive the economy, to offer young people a perspective and to stop the jihadists who are taking over a part of the sahel every day. the continued rise of jihadists in the sahel region has led to the second coup d'état in a year in burkina faso, where almost 40% of my homeland is now controlled by militants with ties to both al qaeda and islamic state. this is bad news for them, but it's bad news for us, too. i thank my colleagues for allowing this debate to take place. i thank the european commission for its attention to this matter. this is not a far-from-bed show and i look forward to the negotiations for the resolution in october ii.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2021: two coups d'état in mali; 2022: two coups in burkina faso. military rule is of course never a solution, but neither do these coups in the sahel region fall from the sky. and it's really, i think, too easy to say that it's all the russians' fault. it would then be necessary to explain why this russian propaganda, which is very real, is so successful and seductive. these coups, it must be said, are taking place against a background of deep popular anger. anger directly linked to the disastrous consequences of the military intervention in libya, which destabilised the entire region. the european union has also been the victim of a series of military interventions, from barkhane to takuba, which have all failed. anger at being poor in countries that are rich, but are being robbed by european multinationals. finally, there is anger at the impact of the cfa franc on living conditions and the social dimension of these countries. in short, anger at european neocolonialism. after the blockade of a french military convoy a few months ago, a burkinabe student explained it well and i read: "the burkinabe population and youth are not against france, but against the french system. we are told that we are in a win-win situation, but what we see is a master-slave relationship, even if it is a bit abusive, in any case from boss to proletarian. this is the attitude that the african people no longer accept, and this is what we must break with. it is really time to listen to the africans themselves.
president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu and nato are in danger of being drawn into a spiral of escalation by russia's attitude in ukraine. illegal annexation, sabotage of pipelines, use of energy as a weapon against our citizens and our industrial fabric. and now the threat of nuclear weapons. western europe had been lulled to sleep, while putin had long been waging a hybrid war. we now fully realize that his regime is governed by lies, that it is looking for the edges and that it does not care about international law. he is now violating that on a daily basis in ukraine by deliberately targeting civilians and civilian infrastructure without military interest. the european union must step out of its own shadow and make it clear to putin that we will not give in to his blackmail. that we will seize this crisis to accelerate the energy transition and ensure our energy independence. that we will secure our critical infrastructure. that we will continue to support ukraine against its illegal war of aggression. that we will bring his war crimes to justice. that we advise him not to resort to the use of nuclear weapons, but that we will respond appropriately if necessary. that we are not against his people, but against his regime. that after this war we will restore a european and international order based on rules.
in writing. the whole world admires the unwavering courage of the ukrainian people who show great sacrifice in defending their country. however, we are watching with great concern and tension the deteriorating situation and the increasingly aggressive actions of russia and its desire to erode a sovereign and independent state. we unequivocally and strongly condemn russia's war of aggression and its attempts to occupy territories by force and under the cover of sham referendums, and the massive and grave violations of human rights and war crimes committed in ukraine by the russian armed forces, their proxies and the russian-appointed occupation authorities. all countries supporting ukraine must urgently and robustly increase their military assistance, especially in areas where they are requested by the ukrainian government, in order to enable ukraine to regain control of all its internationally recognised territory and successfully defend itself against any further russian aggression. ladies and gentlemen, war has returned to europe. we have a duty to ensure peace on our continent for generations to come, and we must therefore focus and stand united in support of ukraine in its and all of our fight against russia.
in writing. with the illegal annexation of ukrainian territories and the nuclear threat, vladimir putin continues on the path of escalation. the forward leak. but, paradoxically, the situation on the ground offers a window of opportunity for diplomacy. the russian president knows that no illegal annexation decree will be able to hide the military impasse in which the russian offensive is currently. it's no coincidence that putin called for diplomacy even in his annexation speech. a stalemate on the battlefield often provides an important opportunity to revive negotiations. moreover, important countries such as india and china, which do not support either the russian invasion or the european policy of sanctions and arms deliveries, are pushing putin to negotiate. since the start of the war, the european union has not taken a single serious diplomatic initiative. it's irresponsible. in a context where nuclear war and the escalation of the conflict far beyond the borders of the region seem increasingly tangible risks, we have a duty to try a great diplomatic initiative. yes, diplomacy can fail, but the only way to know is to try. the working classes have nothing to gain from an escalation of war.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, the revision of the sustainable development chapters in trade treaties is a significant step, it must be acknowledged, towards more sustainable international trade, involving civil society and parliament more closely and setting out mechanisms for implementation and monitoring and sanctions for non-compliance with the provisions contained therein. but there are still "buts". with all due respect, commissioner, i hope that this parliament has no reason to doubt the seriousness with which the commission and dg trade are looking at this matter. i was expecting an exchange with the trade commissioner because, while the 15-point action plan is, i repeat, a step forward, there are still problems and your answers to the questions put by our president, mr lange, are far from satisfactory in my view, particularly in the context of the implementation roadmaps. i would like to understand how the commission intends to follow the logic to the end if, for example, one of its trading partners fails to honour its commitments. what sanctions will be applied? what will be the mechanism? will we go through a dispute settlement mechanism? another dimension that was highlighted during the various exchanges was the issue of human rights, which is not part of the chapters on sustainable development. we believe that this is a fundamental shortcoming, since it is well known that, unfortunately, many human rights violations still occur in the commercial environment. the ombudsman has recently raised this issue, and she proposes to set up a full-fledged, parallel mechanism, which would also be open to stakeholders from our trading partners. here again, i have a very specific request to the commission: how does the commission intend to follow up this proposal from the ombudsman? i think that would be a real and substantial complement to this revision of the sustainable development chapters in our trade agreements.
on behalf of the group of the european right, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report and for the work he has done in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. the employment figures in the european union are impressive. the commission's 2021 study shows that as many as 38 million jobs in the eu depend on our exports. that is 11 million euros more than ten years earlier. i am disappointed in that, commissioner. the commission has not made sufficient progress in this period on new trade agreements. i therefore call for new trade agreements to be concluded quickly. secondly, trade agreements, our trade agreements, are a lever for human rights, a lever for decent working conditions, a lever for sustainability. in the field of sustainability - indeed - we must beware of a single approach to our various partner countries. we must take into account the challenges of that partner country, we must take into account the possibilities of that partner country. with new zealand, for example, we are setting the standards very, very high and very quickly, but not all countries have the same opportunities, do not have the same resources. in conclusion: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
mr president, an algorithm - yes, an algorithm! - decided that social benefits for disadvantaged children should be withdrawn from precarious homes and then reimbursed. this decision affects racially discriminated persons suspected of fraud on the basis of their colour of skin non-white. this is not the chinese social scoring system, this is the work of the dutch government, which has been trying to cover up the case for months. how many times must we repeat that algorithms and automated decisions pose risks to fundamental rights, especially for people who are racially discriminated against and for people who are vulnerable? my colleagues have spoken about these risks and institutional racism, but we also have to talk about the control and regulation of national and european public authorities, who deliberately violate data protection in a form of general apathy. the aid withdrawn from people of colour in the netherlands, the data on the sexual orientation or religion of people who come to our borders collected by frontex, the massive and indiscriminate collection of police data by europol: but where will it stop? public authorities have an exemplary role to play and the commission must react in the event of violations of fundamental rights and european law. ladies and gentlemen, the current negotiations on artificial intelligence give us the opportunity to set the necessary red lines now.
can i ask: does anybody want to speak against? i see nobody asking for the floor. so i put the request to vote by roll call. vote is open. vote is closed. and it’s adopted. therefore, we will have council and commission statements on growing hate crimes against lgbtq people across europe in light of the recent homophobic murder in slovakia to be added as a third point in the afternoon, after the question time to the commission. and then the debate will be wound up with a resolution to be voted on thursday. the deadlines are as follows: motions for resolutions: tuesday, 18 october at 10.00. amendments to the motions for resolutions and joint motions for resolutions: wednesday, 19 october at 10.00. amendments to joint motions for resolutions: also wednesday at 11.00. splits and separates: wednesday at 19.00. on tuesday as well, the ecr group has asked that the council and commission statements on recognising the russian federation as a state sponsor of terrorism to be added in the afternoon. the debate would be wound up with a resolution to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to mr charlie weimers to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
i see that mr gahler would like to take the floor.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, colleagues, the epp group is prepared to hold this debate this week if it gets a majority. however, we think in order also to preserve the unity of the parliament on the issue of ukraine, we should let the discussion go a bit further and we should have the resolution in november ii and not to have it at short notice. there is a debate that is ongoing not only in europe in our member states, we have it in the council of europe, we have this debate in the united states, whether to have it or not to have it. so we should thoroughly reflect about how to position ourselves and not to do it too quickly in this week. so debate, yes, but resolution november ii, that is our suggestion.
can i ask whether any member would like to vote against the proposal to have the debate? yes, go ahead, ms donato.
can i ask mr weimers whether you, charlie, would you be ok with the resolution being done at a later plenary so we can vote once ? or would you insist that the resolution be done this week?
ok, so we would vote once, and i open the vote to have a debate this week with resolution in november. vote is open. still, many colleagues have not voted. i close the vote. and it is approved. so there will be the council and commission statement on recognising the russian federation as a state sponsor of terrorism to be added in the afternoon, and the resolution will be in november. also for tuesday, the id group has asked that the commission statement on combating violence against women – strong and immediate measures to condemn the aggressors and support the victims be added as the last point in the evening before the explanation of votes. i give the floor to ms virginie joron to move the request on behalf of the id group.
i understand that the greens and the left group have counter-proposals to make. i give the floor first to ms terry reintke. let me also, terry, welcome you officially as the new co-leader of the green group.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, as you rightly said, we would have a counter—proposal and the title of the counter—proposal that we would like to put forward is ‘fighting sexualised violence and violence against women: the importance of the istanbul convention and the need for a comprehensive directive against gender—based violence’. and we would like to propose this for wednesday, as the fourth point of the agenda. let me give you the reasons why. first of all, because we believe that the timing is crucial. we do not want such an important topic to be moved to be the last item of the agenda, so we would like to have it moved up, for wednesday. the second point, and i really want to make sure that you understand this, we in this parliament, we are not only a house for talking, we are a house for delivering. the istanbul convention and the directive against gender—based violence are two very important proposals that can really change the situation on the ground and make more tangible our fight against sexualised violence and violence against women. this is why we ask you to support our proposal.
i also give the floor now to ms manon aubry to present the counter-proposal on behalf of the left group.
we’re going to put the request of the id group first to a vote by roll call. i open the vote. i close the vote. and it is rejected. i now put the request by the greens/efa group to vote by roll call. vote is open. i close the vote. and it is adopted. and, therefore, we will have a commission statement on fighting sexualised violence and violence against women, the importance of the istanbul convention and a comprehensive proposal for a directive against gender-based violence. and it is added as the second point on wednesday afternoon. then we go to wednesday. the left group has asked that council and commission statements on neo-colonial statements of the vice-president of the commission / high representative at the inauguration of the european diplomatic academy be added as the sixth point in the afternoon, after the commission statement on the lukashenka regime’s active role in the war against ukraine. i give the floor to mr marc botenga to move the request on behalf of the left group.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, just quickly, dear colleagues, what’s the difference between a garden and a jungle? a garden is a nice place where civilised human beings walk around. a jungle is the heart of darkness where wild animals live. now, many people in africa, asia, latin america remember very well how in the name of civilisation, european colonialism treated them like wild animals, enslaving them, torturing them, and even exhibiting them in human zoos. therefore, when the highest diplomat of the european union compares europe to a garden, but especially the rest of the world, to a jungle, the message these people hear is that europe is still driven by neocolonialism. we cannot let that message pass. therefore, i would ask you to put this topic on the agenda for discussion on wednesday.
is there anyone who wishes to speak against? i see ms kanko would like to take the floor. go ahead, assita.
madam president, is what josep borrell said smart? am i a big fan of mr borrell? no. am i often unhappy when i hear what he says? yes, but i can only say that what he said about europe being a garden and the rest of the world being a jungle has nothing to do with neocolonialism, and people in africa are not the rest of the world. there is also china. there is also the us. there are plenty of other places in the universe, and people in africa today are not the people who were in africa at the time of colonisation. these people today are bankers. these people today are engineers. these people today are fighting for a modern world. stop seeing the africa of the past. i fought against this. mr borrell did not say anything that is neocolonial.
so i put the request of the left group to a vote by roll call. i open the vote. i close the vote. and it is rejected. and, therefore, the agenda remains unchanged and the agenda is now adopted.
the agenda includes the debate on the commission statement on the international day for the eradication of poverty (2022/2878 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, ‘end poverty in all its forms everywhere’ is the first of the 17 un sustainable development goals. according to the united nations global compact, more than 700 million people – or 10% of the global population – still live in extreme poverty. i am glad that parliament decided to remind everyone that today is the international day for the eradication of poverty, and i very much welcome this debate. poverty is the root cause of many human rights and labour rights violations. for example, child labour, forced labour and human trafficking are each deeply connected to poverty. when it comes to the european union, according to eurostat figures, in 2021, there were an estimated 95.4 million people in the eu at risk of poverty or social exclusion, which was equivalent to 21% of the total population: a really frightening figure. according to arope rates, up until last year, relative poverty – linked to insufficient income – was declining from 2016 to 2018, but picked up again in 2019 and 2020. when it comes to adequate income, having a job is increasingly not necessarily a viable route out of poverty. in 2019, almost 1 in 10 workers experienced in-work poverty, a situation that is absolutely inacceptable. the covid-19 pandemic halted the positive trend in poverty reduction over the past 25 years. the combined impacts of russia’s war of aggression towards ukraine and of climate change may be further detrimental if we do not take bold measures to support the most vulnerable, but also those households that are suffering from skyrocketing energy price increases without seeing their income being adapted to this evolution. the european pillar of social rights and the porto targets put combating poverty at their core. the union strategy to address poverty is reflected in the european pillar of social rights and its principles, whose objectives are providing equal opportunities for all, fair working conditions and social protection to fight against poverty and inequalities. lifting at least 15 million people, including at least 5 million children, out of poverty and social exclusion is our joint european target, proposed by the commission in its action plan for the implementation of the pillar, and welcomed last year at the porto social summit and endorsed by the european council. we have to stick to this objective because poverty is hitting more and more families. all eu member states have set their own national targets to reduce poverty, adding up and exceeding the eu targets. prior to russia’s invasion of ukraine, social indicators for 2021 mainly flagged up positive changes. this was thanks to the contribution of social protection and social inclusion systems. the at-risk-of-poverty or social exclusion rate for children remains higher than the rate for the general population. this is a real challenge, as children growing up in poverty or social exclusion are less likely to do well in school, enjoy good health and realise their full potential later in life. this is something we just cannot accept. young people have been strongly impacted by the covid-19 pandemic. in addition, young people are generally less well covered by social protection systems, resulting in a higher risk of poverty or social exclusion for 16 to 29 year olds. they often face job precariousness and a lack of affordable housing. while latest data confirm an improvement in the poverty and relative income situation of older people, older women face a significantly higher poverty risk and lower pensions than men do. women’s lower earnings and under—representation in the labour market translate into their higher risk of poverty. other factors make women more vulnerable, such as single parenthood, disability and a migrant background. women are also very often over—represented in sectors where wages are low and precariousness is high, and they are very often obliged to work part—time. russia’s war of aggression against ukraine has caused a clear deterioration of the socio-economic outlook, and it has triggered a humanitarian crisis, with millions of ukrainians having fled their country. at the same time, the criminal destruction of mainly civil infrastructure in ukraine has pushed poverty up dramatically in this country. against this critical context and key challenges, strong action is needed. we need to continue to tackle the source of the soaring energy prices, which are driving high inflation. we need to prevent households falling into a precarious economic situation, in particular lower—income families. we also need to review the adequacy and coverage of social safety nets, in particular, minimum income benefits and access to enabling services. wage policies and adequate minimum wages are key to countering poverty, in particular in-work poverty, and to protecting households’ purchasing power. i call on all member states to swiftly transpose and implement – even before transposition – the directive on minimum wages. i must say i have noticed that a certain number of member states have now increased their minimum wages, by more than 5, 7 or 10%. other countries have indexed their minimum wages. to effectively fight against poverty and inequality, we need an integrated approach based on the coordination of different measures and policies. the commission has recently adopted a communication that provides guidance to member states on making greater use of distributional impact assessments, and to better target the different measures. concrete initiatives are put forward through the implementation of the european pillar of social rights. the objective of the european child guarantee is to break the vicious circle of intergenerational poverty. now it’s time to put this child guarantee into practice, to implement it through national action plans. the recently adopted european care strategy – a sector where an overall majority of women are working – gives not only children a better education and better care but also supports long-term care systems. finally, the council recommendation on adequate minimum income ensuring active inclusion education and skills are key in finding good jobs with a decent wage, and so help to reduce poverty. addressing energy poverty is a key part of the approach to the fight against poverty. with parliament, we are working on combating homelessness, a form of extreme poverty which affects 700 000 people or more in europe. the commission recently put forward a regulation on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices which sets a revenue cap on companies that produce electricity at a lower cost. therefore, we also propose that excessive profits should go to support households and companies. we need a holistic approach to tackle poverty and inequalities. we have to make sure social policies are considered on an equal footing as other policies, be it economic, fiscal or taxation policies. fairness is one of the four strands of this commission economic strategy. these are constituent elements of our unique social market economy. but we europeans cannot ignore that hundreds of millions of people live in extreme poverty outside europe. they are struggling to survive. this year, about 5 million children have already died from poverty. today, on the international day for the eradication of poverty, more than 11 000 kids will have died from hunger, absence of health care and disastrous living conditions. this is not fate. this could be avoided. our commitment has to be clear and solid. social justice is the condition and foundation of peace. therefore, the eu should be at the forefront of building a fair, just and sustainable world economy that eradicates poverty.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against poverty. but people in poverty deserve our attention not just today, but every day of the year. poverty still affects 91 million people including 18 million children in europe. the cost of living in the form of energy, housing and food is skyrocketing. people are barely surviving, and the purchasing power crisis is affecting not only the lower income but also the lower middle income. this is completely unacceptable. we have committed ourselves to lifting 15 million people out of poverty by 2030. we must and will realize this. this is why the roll-out of the social pillar action plan is so essential. it is also good that important dossiers such as the directive on the european minimum wage have been successfully concluded. we must also give our full support to future dossiers on a social climate fund, platform workers and pay transparency. and just like that, we must continue the fight against homelessness and for affordable housing. so it cannot be limited to words and good intentions. we need an integrated and structural anti-poverty strategy that tackles the causes of poverty and makes the eu more resilient to future crises. we owe that to our europeans. poverty has no place in our society. as you yourself once said in a webinar: poverty belongs in a museum. europe will be social or it will not be.
mr president, of course, we are here today for justice for daphne caruana galizia, a journalist who was just doing her work and who was murdered in malta, with a bomb in a car. she was killed with complicity of the state and of some rich people. today, only those who executed the orders are in jail. what about those who requested and who called for the murder? why is her family still a target of slapps? of course, we are here today for justice for daphne caruana galizia. but we are also here for what she was fighting for: we are here for press freedom, for democratic values, for the right of the people to know what is going on. this is what daphne caruana galizia gave her life for – for the fight for democracy to survive. democracy and the rule of law cannot survive without a free press. that’s why we must protect it.
mr president, commissioner, today we must once again applaud the work of ngos, but also of investigative journalists. as their activities are increasingly criminalised, without them the olaf report, which describes the actions of the frontex agency, would never have been published. and without them and without the press, today's debate would never have been possible or public. frontex and its former management have benefited from the complacency and laissez-faire of the member states, too happy to see the borders of fortress europe rise, borders that are increasingly murderous. i am also very happy that i don't have to show solidarity and humanity in welcoming the exiles. the olaf report is overwhelming. in addition to its many internal dysfunctions, frontex has knowingly - knowingly - ignored violations of fundamental rights. frontex has knowingly let national authorities actively engage in illegal returns, in total contradiction to international and european law. the most funded agency of the european union has lied to this parliament and is increasingly openly flouting european values. we refuse to allow european taxpayers' money to be used to finance these actions. that is why tomorrow this parliament must refuse to grant frontex discharge.
president, commissioner, is there no loading dock at the loading dock? will my charging card be accepted? load stress: a phenomenon familiar to many electric riders. and for me too. and so my hope is that this plan will make this stress a thing of the past. and it is not just road users who need to be relieved of their worries. our shipping lanes and airports also deserve the right infrastructure. i also really realize that this is going to be a challenge. think of the limited electrical grid and the trouble with paying. this is why member states should start now, as far as the sdc is concerned, to strengthen the electricity grid and work on smart technologies, such as smart charging. because that's how we can relieve the pressure on the power grid. payment should also be made easier, with a payment card or a charging card, so that charging is accessible anywhere in the eu . i see that the transport sector is working very hard to achieve that sustainable future, but it cannot happen overnight. so give them a realistic timeframe. we must now do what is necessary to make the energy supply for the transport sector future-proof. and to get that right, i'm calling for a national coordinator to oversee the rollout and help local governments with that challenge. because one thing is clear to me: these proposals do not mean that we should drive less, sail less or fly less, but that we should be cleaner.
mr president, madam commissioner, rapporteur and colleagues, in order to reach our climate targets, we must work to decarbonise the transport sector, as we know it is the only sector where emissions have increased. at the same time, it is important to remember that the maritime sector, like aviation, they are global industries, so unilateral changes that could hinder the competitiveness of european companies must be avoided. there are also challenges, as we know, regarding the availability of renewable maritime fuels. as such, i am glad that the parliament’s position here is ambitious but also realistic. it is vital that we progressively increase the share of low-carbon fuels, respect technology neutrality and ensure necessary incentives for funding research and development in this area. while we are creating these europe-wide regulations, we must take the special conditions of member states also into account. for finland, this included the compensation formula for ice navigation. i commend the rapporteur and my colleagues for taking this into consideration and including it in the final report.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on our cooperation and the positive result of this work. the negotiations have not been easy, but we are now voting for new safety nets in the shipping sector, taking into account regional specific needs, such as possible exemptions for island regions for which the only viable and affordable solution - at least for the time being - comes from shipping. it is also extremely important that the need for coordination with the international maritime organisation, the imo, is recognised, and although we can and will be more ambitious. it is also important that the 'polluter pays' principle has been strengthened. and i will continue in english because i think it is very important to reject plenary amendments that wish to water down the requirements of the rfnbo sub-targets. in fact, while the 2% minimum use target set for 2030 is a good start, but we could aim even higher for the following years as we are going to have reviews of this regulation and then we can also increase that. there are good examples, like renewable hydrogen from nonbiological sources like solar panels, that is expected to play a key strategic role in the decarbonisation of the generally hard-to-decarbonise transport sector.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, 90% of goods in europe pass through the sea. shipping accounts for 13% of co2 emissions from transport and is an unprecedented nuisance when it comes to air quality. and more and more cities, like marseille, ajaccio and all over europe, are mobilizing against these super-paquebots that pollute the air. we have solutions, and i'm asking you to vote for them. not to make gas and lng another energy transition. we will not achieve our carbon neutrality goals with fossil fuels. it's easy: let's get off gas, especially the energy mix. we must focus on hydrogen, as the european commission has set itself great ambitions for green hydrogen and also for ammonia. but let's finally bet on the future: sailing boats. yes, the bladder. we know that now, we have a lot of know-how in europe. and for the air we breathe: the obligation for cruise ships to connect when they dock - and i insist, the obligation - or else they will be banned from ports in 2030. i have therefore tabled an amendment to extend this application to all vessels from 2035 onwards. because these giant ships emit as much as 30,000 cars going 20 miles an hour. it is therefore high time to switch to electricity, because it is no longer possible to subject the people to the fumes from these boats. i tell you, europe has everything to be the great leader in the world in decarbonising the maritime sector. time is no longer measured by mere measurements. so let us all take these measures and our responsibilities together, and tomorrow's vote will give a great and beautiful direction to this maritime sector.
mr president, commissioner vălean, dear colleagues, today we make an important step forward for a quick and efficient facilitation for the decarbonisation in the shipping sector. and according to my opinion, i strongly believe that we have managed to propose a piece of legislation that focuses on reducing shipping’s climate impact while encouraging and accelerating investments in that direction. what is of utmost importance is that the report now recognises the structural role of the commercial operators in the shipping sector. needless to say that we focused on this aspect during our internal negotiation, and i would like to thank once again my colleague warborn for his excellent collaboration. the commercial operator, which can be the ship-owner, which can be the charterer or any other entity, is the entity responsible for making the choice on the compliant fuels used by this ship. the current approach now fully reflects the ‘polluter pays’ principle, which was established under the treaty of the functioning of the european union, constitutes the fundamental stone of our eu environmental legislation. therefore, the application of the polluter pays principle shall not be subject of contractual negotiations, but an unquestionable eu environmental principle that must be respected by all relevant stakeholders. we also aim to achieve consistency between this regulation in line with ets and the mrv legislation. this report also reflects to the shared responsibility between the commercial operator and the fuel supplier to a very satisfying degree. an obligation on fuel suppliers is provided to compensate shipping companies for the payment of penalties if they fail to deliver compliant fuels pursuant to a contractual arrangement. it is a balanced approach. it has been secure and i believe that this report should also work as a solid base for the trilogue discussion with the commission and the council. once again, thank you very much all co-rapporteurs and the rapporteur.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important regulation. the availability of charging and refuelling infrastructure primarily for cars, light commercial vehicles and trucks, but also for the maritime and aviation sectors is a key parameter in determining the future market share of low and zero emission vehicles in europe in the coming years. the more charging points there are, the more attractive it will be for consumers and operators to switch to cleaner propulsion technologies, such as electric and hydrogen vehicles. we are at a crossroads today: this legislation will set the course for the next decades in the field of mobility, and is an important step towards an energy-independent europe, based on green renewable sources. having an adequate number of efficient and easy charging points is the most correct way to make our will to achieve the objectives of the climate law and repowereu really feasible and tangible. for a clean europe, an energy self-sufficient europe, a stronger europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the road to decarbonisation of the maritime sector is still long and uncertain. the marine fuels regulation sets out a realistic and gradual emission reduction trajectory and provides a boost to investment in research and development, while respecting the principle of technological neutrality. some are betting on hydrogen, others on ammonia and methanol, or on biofuels or batteries, without forgetting the role liquefied natural gas can play in a transition phase, ensuring an early and immediate reduction in co2. because no single winning option is on the horizon, all players in the sector will have to contribute, from operators, who are subject to strict obligations, to ports, who will have to install shore-side power infrastructure, to suppliers of sustainable fuels, to the shipyards, which require creativity and innovation. the compromise we are about to vote on represents, in my view, a good balance between the opposing extremes, between those who do not consider social costs and impacts and those who seem to ignore the climate crisis. finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that this is a challenge which we can only overcome if we are also able to act in international fora. this is an essential element to avoid unfair competition from operators and ports in third countries, while ensuring the decarbonisation of the maritime sector at global level.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. citizens need to feel safe when buying new alternative fuel transport, especially if they travel a lot outside their daily routes and familiar area. if they are worried and doubtful about whether they will get their vehicle to their destination on time, they will be less inclined to buy such a vehicle. i therefore support this proposal and the strategy for the timely and adequate construction of alternative fuel charging stations. although there is an increasing number of alternative fuel transport infrastructure available, the question is whether all countries will be able to provide sufficient charging points on their road infrastructure in the foreseeable future. i would also like to mention the planned phase-out of combustion engines. science is also progressing in this area and the suggestions of experts should be taken into account and the continued use of such vehicles should be allowed to continue, at least to a certain percentage.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting this week on two proposals for regulations, both on maritime and infrastructure, which are central to meeting the 2050 climate targets. maritime transport will probably be one of the most demanding sectors in this transition process. conscious of this need, the commission has shown ambition in the texts it has presented to us, supported by impact studies and their proper quantification. nevertheless, parliament, in almost all the 'fit for 55' packages, has repeatedly scaled up the level of ambition to figures which we consider unrealistic. i give as examples the increase in the installed power of charging stations, the distance between them, the increase in the dates for their implementation or the air conditioning system in the cabins of aircraft. in all of them, what i believe is fundamental to our work as co-legislators, the principle of proportionality, has been lacking. however, and since very important commitments have been made in both texts, such as derogations and exemptions for peripheral countries like portugal and also for the outermost regions, something which was not in the commission's initial text, we now welcome and are in a better position to support these proposals.
mr president, commissioner, i want to express my support for these initiatives because the deployment of sufficient, visible and accessible alternative fuel recharging and refuelling infrastructure is an essential condition for the decarbonisation of transport. it obliges industry to innovate in the production of vehicles and fuels. but we also need to provide legal certainty to industry and guarantees to transport professionals and citizens about the charging point network. the deployment of these infrastructures on the ten-t core network must be given priority and simpler and more uniform means of payment than those existing today must also be ensured, especially for electric mobility. the current dispersion is as disincentive as the shortage of recharging points. as regards the regulation on low-emission renewable fuels for the shipping sector, i am again in favour of making the transition with and not against industry. the savings we are told will be made in indirect pollution costs and operational improvements must be applied to innovation. this opens up a huge opportunity for european shipbuilding to consolidate our global leadership in sustainable solutions for this mode of transport. we have an obligation to take advantage of it. finally, i would like to draw attention to the sensitivity we owe to the outermost regions in this matter. they are particularly dependent on shipping. let us give a good reason for the exceptions, but let us also acknowledge the specific nature of these territories.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation provides answers, guidelines and objectives for the air transport sector, for the maritime sector and also for the road sector, particularly for heavy goods transport and for light vehicles. but let us admit that for motorists and in relation to their concerns - in particular that of not having enough terminals - this text does not go far enough: it concerns only the transeuropean network. it will be urgent to provide a rapid response for all areas, for all networks, so that the obligations also help to alleviate the fears of the population. there are many fears. will i be able to afford an electric vehicle? will i be able to afford to run it? will i be able to have enough charging stations near my home? it is a challenge, of course, for citizens, for their jobs and for their work. it is an economic issue, a tourist issue. and so, i think that we will have to add a whole series of obligations very quickly, in particular to ensure that the network is sufficient everywhere on all european roads. i will end by saying that the all-electric as it is decided - i did not vote for this all-electric - is for me a madness, especially of dependence on china. the european strategy and innovation in particular have had a lot to lose with this target set for 2035 of 100%. a target of 90% would have allowed this flexibility for the market, also for new technologies.
mr president, who are you kidding by claiming that the skyrocketing prices of electricity, fuel, food and inflation are the result of the imperialist war in ukraine? you know very well that the price hike race started in the fall of 2021. the green transition strategy promoted by the european union and all governments, by imposing the energy market, its liberalisation, trade in pollutants, green fees and desalination, is therefore at stake. this is the united strategy of the european union and its governments, despite the differences between you in the european councils on the division of the spoils. while the energy groups are feeding off wild profits, subsidies and all kinds of tax breaks, the idea of a windfall tax is a joke. the mocking benefits paid out of the people's pockets do not relieve the people's income. in france today, in greece on november 9: strike riots for wage and pension increases, abolition of unfair taxes, cheap electricity and fuel and consumer goods, no house without electricity.
mr president, dear colleagues, inflation is a big threat. when putting together fiscal support for the economy we should have in mind that if it leads to fiscal expansion, this inflation will be more difficult or more costly. and the highest cost for inflation is always paid by the people. so that’s why redirecting of existing money and using new resources like windfall tax is a must. the second: energy savings are still in the centre. issuer energy savings and quick build—up of new clean, effective resources is the best way how to reduce the risk and reduce the costs. last but not least, we should not forget about keeping single market functioning. we should rethink if more stringent or at least coordinated state-led rules are not the best way to promote efficiency of the single market and avoid disruptions. last but not least, we shouldn’t forget that putin’s policy is likely leading to world global recession. if it happens, we shouldn’t forget that the highest price is paid by the least developed countries.
mr president, well, it’s our duty to back ukraine against the terrorist putin’s regime, but it is also our duty to protect and support our citizens and our companies in this energy crisis. millions of europeans don’t know how they will make it through this winter – steep increases in food prices, double-digit inflation. what we need is a crisis management and we need it now. this house proposed concrete solutions: exempting staple foods from vat, more money for smes and bigger companies, decoupling electricity prices from the prices of gas. and we know how to finance this plan: windfall tax. and this needs to be properly implemented by all member states. winter is coming and all our talk must now be backed with concrete actions.
president, ladies and gentlemen, this energy crisis is not happening to us by accident. it is the result of a deliberate political choice whose consequences were also predictable. ecological dogmatism has led to the closure of nuclear power stations. liberal moralism unleashed a reckless economic war. one sanctions package after another was announced. they thought that would stop the war and put russia out of money. the opposite happened. energy prices are exploding, which is exactly what gives putin more money to fund his horrific war machine. high inflation is the result. savings and purchasing power are going up in smoke. industry is relocating. pension funds are about to collapse. europe is committing economic suicide. ordinary people pay the price. a flemish family is already paying four times as much for energy. they will be forgotten and abandoned. and what is the european union doing? more sanctions. more weapons shipments. the european union was once created to bring peace and prosperity. unfortunately, this has become war and collective impoverishment. they have dragged us into the quagmire of this war and have no idea how long it will last or how we will ever get out of it. this european union is leading us to economic ruin, if not to the trenches. this madness must stop.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should present its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the question.
in writing. europe is on the verge of an economic and social crisis. the consequences of the war in ukraine are painful for europe. decades of inflation and price increases, coupled with skyrocketing energy prices, threaten to cause enormous losses and economic downturn. the reality is that our people and small businesses cannot afford to pay their outgoing energy bills and most of them are at risk of poverty. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is not the time for political disagreement - our people and businesses need solutions now to be able to meet at least basic needs or provide for their families. it is not justified that energy companies calculate a profit margin when the bill for ordinary consumers has increased tenfold. manipulation of the energy market must be prevented and unjustified profits must be distributed to support those most in need. we must protect our food production sector and we cannot allow our people or our companies to become creditors to energy companies. now is the time to be solidarity and socially responsible and to turn to our own people who are paying a huge price for the consequences of the war in ukraine.
in writing. the fact that the billions of dollars in profits which are on top of the normal profits of a multinational are on the agenda today is the merit of our group. let there be no doubt about that. in belgium, as in other countries, the traditional parties denied the existence of any victories a year ago. in the debate today, too, a number of politicians on the right, the liberal and the far right simply avoid the issue. under pressure from the people, you have to debate it today, but still try to postpone your action. the greens want to continue to allow large multinationals to keep half of their profits, while the european commission is already satisfied with a one-off tax on a small third of energy profits. no, ladies and gentlemen, victories are unacceptable. just as some of the big corporations profited from the covid crisis as pandemic profiteers, the multinationals that are now collecting profits are war profiteers and crisis profiteers. why is it taking so long to take action? because you are stuck in a totally neoliberal dogma: the so-called competitiveness of the big business expressed in their dividends and profits is absolutely sacred. the working class, well... they can drown. this can't go on any longer.
mr president, commissioner, minister, on 10 october we celebrated mental health day and i am pleased that this topic is on the agenda of the european parliament and that the european commission has even taken it up. i think it's important to talk about the fact that people have mental health problems not just after covid, that having mental health problems and living with them, learning to live with them, as my speakers said here, is normal, that it's normal to talk about these things, and that it's important that the commission accelerates this issue in its statements. i would be delighted, commissioner, if it were not just words but deeds, when the european commission participates in the permanent representation of the czech republic and in the seminars that the czech republic organises on this subject with experts, and tries to take account of the latest trends in the field and tries to put more emphasis on this topic in its statements.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 10 october was mental health day and this problem cannot be emphasized enough. the cost of mental health problems in all eu member states is estimated to be over 4% of gdp. the cost of work-related depression is estimated at 620 billion euros per year. other research has shown that the number of children and young people with mental health problems has doubled since the pandemic. and that's why we need to break the taboo that still exists on mental health. i am therefore pleased that commission president von der leyen announced in her state of the union an initiative on mental health care for 2023. after addressing the economic impact of the pandemic, including through the sure temporary unemployment mechanism and the successful roll-out of the vaccination campaign to protect the physical health of our citizens, it is now high time to address the mental health impact of the pandemic, among other things, with the same drive.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. minister! i'm not going to let you down. this is a time when the european council must adopt short-term solutions very quickly, with decisions. and if there are no short-term solutions, there is little point in expecting long-term objectives to be achieved and therefore only two additional tasks on the european council's agenda as examples. if you're going to have a tough response to russia if they use chemical weapons or nuclear weapons in ukraine, you have to have a tough response now, because what russia is doing by destroying ukraine's infrastructure is actually possible, with more tragic consequences than even if they used these unconventional weapons. the response must therefore be extremely firm at council level already. and the second example is the special tribunal for russian crimes in ukraine. if there is no peace, then even if ukraine pushes russia back into its occupied territories, it will not be peace, but a cold war. without this special tribunal. and on energy policy, the commission has done a lot, and the council has to take those decisions too. they may not be complete, but if they are not adopted, there is no point in talking about the convention on the future of europe or similar topics, because it is pointless if short-term energy policy decisions cannot be taken.
madam president, commissioner, minister, dear colleagues, it is clear that the people of europe are expecting from us solutions to the problems that they are facing – energy insecurity, inflation, high prices. and the first thing that i would like to say is: timing is of the essence. our solutions are only good if we manage to implement them fast. this is why, commissioner, we are welcoming the proposals put forward by president von der leyen in the area of energy. but their fast implementation is of the essence, particularly when it comes to the common purchase and storage of gas. we have been asking for this as a parliament since september 2021. please work with the council to push the council minister you as well to implement this fast. this will only help the people if implemented fast. my first point. my second point. we have to support ukraine in the short and medium-term, including financially. europe has to be at the lead of the financial support to ukraine. it would be a geopolitical damage to the european union in the long-term if other corners of the world support ukraine financially more than we do. we as european parliament have to be aware of the limited possibilities of the european budget. this is why, commissioner, please work with the member states that they also chip in and we should do from the eu budget as much as we can without damaging the other financial priorities of the union.
madam president, mr commissioner, russian aggression against ukraine and its multiple consequences remains our focal point, as it should. the most urgent remains energy prices. taxation of excessive profits, joint purchase, and reallocation of unused eu funding are valid proposals. we need fast, innovative, and common solutions. but we should apply the same strategy and decisiveness to our foreign policy. increased political, economic and military assistance is essential to help ukraine and to tackle all other crises caused by russian aggression too. illegal referenda, annexation, and the latest attacks on civilians require a severe economic and political response with further sanctions. the last point on the agenda is relations with china following the communist party congress. the framework and definition of our relations with china will directly affect our future as it’s the best test of our geopolitical ambitions for a strategically autonomous eu. a strong, resilient, and united union is always the proper answer.
madam president, commissioner, minister, my plea today on the energy crisis is very simple. one: speed up, move from words to action. this cannot be yet another summit to agree that we will agree in the future. countering the volatility of gas prices, joint procurement are good proposals, but we have been debating these measures already for months. but these are still just proposals. we are still stuck in the technicalities. two: please ensure a fair level playing field for all european companies in the internal market. the german gas industry is affected by this crisis in the same way as the czech gas industry is. however, we should not have a german or czech plan on how to keep these sectors running. what we need is a european plan and we need it now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, let me express my pleasure that in italy a centre-right coalition is now heading for government and that our political friend matteo salvini, who is considered one of the protectors of european identity in europe, is also on board. i am also pleased that in the north of europe, in sweden, a centre-right coalition is now forming a government with the support of the swedish democrats and that normality can also take hold in the north of europe, just as viktor orbán is now in hungary. i know you don't like to hear all this, but it is a reality, due to democracy in europe. as in hungary, with viktor orbán in an absolute majority, there can be a policy directed against many of the mistakes that are being made here, and with the strengthening of the afd in germany or the vox party in spain: here europe is going more and more in a reversal direction, and that is a good thing. i wonder why, at council meetings, where ukraine and russia are always the subject of discussion, another issue is being so ignored, namely illegal immigration. we have over 400 000 asylum applications on the ground in the european union this year, 68% more than last year. since 2015, over six million people have applied for asylum, which is more than the population of ireland, even though we know that two-thirds of them will not be granted refugee status, nor will they be eligible for humanitarian or subsidiary protection, and yet two-thirds of them are simply staying here on european soil. i consider that a danger. the creation of the european legal alliance offers a chance to close the doors of europe and help the people on the ground, rather than push europe ever further towards collapse.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to respond to president garcía pérez's harsh words on italy, reassuring you and this house that the new president of the italian senate, ignazio la russa, was minister for defence of a party which represented 29 members of parliament in this house from a group called the european people's party, and that this has not caused any doubt or any threat to european democracy. so when we talk about italy, we try to know the facts, the truth, to respect the italian people, the italian democracy and now also the italian institutions. but back to us. we need effective responses and no more delays, we need to move faster to have more effective mechanisms, because, you see, there is no time to procrastinate. we need a concrete solidarity mechanism, we cannot be satisfied with more state aid, because it will not guarantee a level playing field in the internal market. we cannot be satisfied with indefinite and too late mechanisms because we have already lost a lot of time. today, at this hour, gas prices are low, but they will soon rise again if we do not implement stable corrective measures that will enable national governments to give concrete answers to citizens and businesses in difficulty. it is no longer time for procrastination, but for action and ambition, as this word is often misused in this house.
mr president, in antwerp a mother and daughter died of carbon monoxide poisoning because they were heating their home with a barbecue. also in brussels, capital of the european union, a mother and two children with co poisoning were taken to the hospital because they used a barbecue for heating indoors because of fears of high prices. what do i hear from the european institutions, from representatives of the council, from the commission? that we shouldn't lower prices too much, because that might otherwise encourage people to consume too much, to consume more. no, please! what world are you living in? seriously, what is that? is it the 32 000 euro salary that makes you forget what is going on in the world? bakeries are closing, butchers are closing... the people are desperate! we must bring down prices now and make the multinationals - who are paying for your sacred multinationals - pay. that's the point!
president, uncertain economic times also require long-term solutions and the eu rightly linked structural reforms to the recovery fund. but where are the eu reforms? when will the internal market be completed, which could bring up to 9% growth in gdp? for when will the much needed new trade agreements that can open up new markets and make us less dependent? when will the action plan for our smes and growth be ready? so invest fully in research and development, innovation and sustainable growth. and don't go digging new debt pits that our children and grandchildren will pay for. instead, implement deep reforms that cost nothing but ensure sustainable growth. we are counting on the czech presidency to break the deadlock.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the far right has learned that to achieve power it is necessary to wear the mask of moderation or normalization, but lies have short legs. the citizens of europe will soon realise your intentions: facilitating tax evasion and instead targeting the most vulnerable, importing gas from dictatorships and then blaming the green deal for all the evils in the world, defending corporations when they escape to tax havens devastating entire peoples and ecosystems, while at home you have only one obsession: cutting public services, from health to education. as an italian and a european, i say forcefully that homophobia, xenophobia and the denial of the basic principles of modern civilisations can never be normal. it will never be normal to point the finger at differences, at immigrants fleeing war and poverty. human rights are not negotiable. we will not let our guard down, you will find us here in the square exposing your hypocrisy and reminding you that you are the past.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are having another trial of our right-wing group. terms such as 'racist' and 'fascist' should of course serve as a deterrent to voters. it's an old trick our political opponents use to silence us because we're hidden supporters of hitler. now, i think that man had better not exist, but the most important thing of all is, of course, that no one in our group invokes nazism. beware, there is a group here that does invoke a murderous ideology, and it is sitting there: the left. they shamelessly call themselves 'communists', whereas everyone knows from the book by french academics le livre noir du communisme that this was the most murderous system ever, with 100 million deaths under lenin, stalin, mao, pol pot and so on. but nobody here is talking about that. the sanitary cordon does not apply to the communists. on the contrary! socialists, christian democrats and liberals regularly work together with these communists in this parliament. all together, therefore, to demonize the right, and also driven by the fear of losing their power and their posts, as now in italy. i'm not a hypocrite!
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the court of auditors for the quality of its annual report. but, as i said in committee last week, this report has not of course removed my many concerns. firstly, there is still a significant error rate in the fields of cohesion, the single market, the european development funds, but especially in the area of high-risk expenditure, with an error rate of 4.7% this year. then, a leftover to liquidate, which also culminates. although it decreases if nextgenerationeu is removed, it peaks at 341 billion and the absorption capacity of member states remains problematic, both in the multiannual framework and for nextgenerationeu. finally, the court also stressed the lack of clarity on recovery and its timing. in the light of these facts, i am worried about the years ahead. mrs hohlmeier has just said that the amounts to be spent under nextgenerationeu, as well as under the multiannual framework, are considerable. and there are fears about the future and how the states, in particular, can absorb these amounts and how to control how they do it. moreover, the court's first review of the recovery and resilience facility in one of our member states, the first to receive funds, raises doubts about the ex ante controls and the objectives to be achieved. this fear is of course all the more important when we think of countries like hungary for their systemic failures in the fight against corruption, conflicts of interest, poor public procurement procedures. finally, i can only stress the importance and urgency of the widespread introduction of data mining tools and the need to systematise the use of new technologies and digital technology to optimise controls. the present situation is simply worrying and we must live up to the expectations of our fellow citizens. we can only do this fully if we have our accounts in order and optimum management of flows.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i hope that the commission will take it up with the council. the report contains a number of very important elements, including a paragraph on women's rights, and in particular female circumcision, marital imprisonment and honour killing, to which i have contributed. nevertheless, the report fails in a number of areas. the european institutions are thus given too much of a role in this area which is the responsibility of the member states. furthermore, the police are being unilaterally criticised, whereas our police and judicial services are working hard to protect society. one point that strikes me very strongly personally is the racism of low expectations. to really tackle racism, we have to be ambitious for everyone. after all, we are more than our color or our sex. we can't believe that we're less than because we're colored.
mr president, let me start by thanking evin incir for this excellent report on racial justice. and it is right that the report mentions cases of double standards and discrimination at the eu borders based on skin colour, including recently against some people fleeing russia’s war in ukraine. therefore, the call for equal treatment at the european union’s borders is so important. and this is not only a call of the european parliament, but also to citizens during the conference on the future of europe, and the migration working group demanded this. i want to thank commissioner dalli for the commission’s commitment to the union of equality. the european parliament is an ally supporting all the commission’s equality strategies, be it the anti-racism action plan, the gender and lgbt equality strategy, the eu roma strategic framework, the disability strategy. we are also an ally when it comes to intersectional discrimination, and it is therefore important not only to address intersectionality in documents and in speeches, but also in eu legislation. and here i urge the council, which is unfortunately absent today, to stop banning intersectionality. to fight racism and discrimination in the european union, we need our member states on board.
mr president, racism and discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin are a daily reality for millions of europeans. there are so many people who are mistreated because of their skin color or religion. so are my children and my husband, because of their dark skin. as a mother and a politician, i am therefore very concerned about the rise of the far right in europe. it reminds me of how deeply rooted racism and discrimination are in our society, how it dehumanizes individuals, how it turns people into monsters, and how deadly hatred can be. we must rise up and take urgent action. europe has no place for racism. it's not our ancestry that matters, it's our future.
mr president, the report says that racism is at the heart of our unique european civilisation and is ingrained in our society, and even in who we are. this creates a real "white-collar problem": our universities, our businesses, our culture are too white and too black, prisons, crime, unemployment are all white people's fault. there is only one true form of structural and systemic racism, and that is positive discrimination. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. this is called inclusion and diversity, but there's nothing positive about it. this is racism against whites and this is against our european values. all citizens must be equal before the law.
madam president, my name is assita kanko indeed, and my life was full of seemingly impossible things. if i had listened to all those who said things were impossible, i would not be with you here today as a colleague. imagine if i had listened to those who told me the path i wanted was too difficult and that i should aim lower. imagine if i believed them and accepted the low expectation adapted to my case. then i wouldn’t be here. then i would have not gone to university. then i would have zero ambition and accept being a victim simply because i am black. being black is not a problem. it’s just a detail. that’s why i would like to ask you to support this oral amendment, so that people like me can have bigger dreams: ‘warns against the racism of low expectations and woke misconceptions that deny people their individual autonomy and instead push people into imagined minorities and majorities and see only racism when human interaction is often much more complex; calls to see people as persons and not to reduce them to one aspect of their identity.’
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to congratulate you. your text is moving in the right direction, that of more protection for all critical infrastructure for europe, especially in the health and food sectors. the pandemic has shown us how urgent it is to protect these important sectors, which are vital for europe - health, food, energy - from cyberattacks, among other things. i would urge the commission to go further. i think that as far as our independence is concerned - a form of sovereignty that can be found at european level in such important sectors as energy, digital, food, health and i would even add defence - we must go further to avoid any dependence in the future. it is sometimes created, especially if we take the example of the decision that has been taken here and elsewhere to have 100% electric vehicles by 2035, which creates a form of dependence on china. we also see this when the same china takes over ports and airports in europe. in relation to all these strategic sectors, all these strategic places, the commission must go further to protect europeans, to protect our independence and autonomy to the maximum.
madam president, although some 60% of new university graduates are women, they are underrepresented in many sectors, but especially in the economic sectors and especially in the higher echelons. 31.5% of the members of the boards of directors are women and only 8% of them are chairmen. with this new legislation, which has been a decade in the making, listed companies will have to seek and have to ensure that, by 2026, the underrepresented sex occupies at least 40% of non-executive positions and 33% of executive positions. achieving a balanced representation between all the sexes, between women and men, is an exercise in equality, information, transparency, justice, democracy and peace. greater balance always means better competitiveness. it will drive economic growth, i have no doubt about it: smart, innovative, sustainable and inclusive growth. but it will also improve the competitiveness of businesses and reduce poverty. diversity is synonymous with talent. boosting the presence of women is a key tool for having the best talent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of european civilization. that is why i am in favour of this directive which calls on the member states of the union to achieve a better balance between the sexes on the boards of large companies. in this respect, the accommodative target of reserving at least 40% of non-executive director positions for the underrepresented sex by 2026 seems reasonable to me. in the short term, of course, it will be women who will benefit from this measure. as iranian women fight for their freedom from the dark regime of the mullahs, i am delighted with the beautiful message of hope we are sending them today. yes, true equality of rights between men and women is possible. no, there are no insurmountable obstacles on the way to it, whether economic, social or religious.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if you're very good at your job, and you get promoted and paid more, and someone else does a worse job than you, you'll say it's not fair. yet some politicians in this parliament want to impose precisely such unfair behaviour on businessmen. instead of the quality of the employees being the sole criterion for advancement, this directive arbitrarily imposes quotas on companies, reserved seats, how many women should be, then i guess how many lgbtiq people should be, how many people of different races should be in order for the company not to be labeled racist, and so on. where's the end of this meddling of yours? i'm all for women on the board of directors if they're the best quality employees, but only if they're the best quality employees. so, only quality, nothing arbitrary. the idea that a politician, many of whom have not spent a day in the real sector, knows better than an economist what's good for business is pretty crazy. so let the economy run free.
madam president! despite the changes taking place in the european labour market, despite many ideas to remove the barriers that restrict women's advancement, there are still some stereotypes in our assessment of competence. women still experience the glass ceiling and the parenthood lens that constrains our professional development. many people, including those in this room, agree that legislation that seeks to create equality, to create equal opportunities for women and men, is artificial and counterproductive. i don't agree with that approach, because when you look at women's education and competence, you see that women have made incredible progress. unfortunately, this does not mean that we are using our potential, our abilities, and our skills. it's a loss that affects the economy and society. it's a waste that should not be allowed to continue. the project we're talking about today is all about equality of opportunity, about a fair selection process for the top jobs. it does not favor any group. i'm aware we have a long way to go. it took ten years before we got to this discussion and decision today. but change is necessary and i believe that the implementation of this directive is a good start for change in the broad economic field.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. where the market fails, where companies fail to prove that they can regulate themselves, that is, get themselves under control, we have to, the state has to regulate. you, the companies, have had plenty of time. that's why today's a good day. 40% of the seats on supervisory boards must be held by women, one third of all executive board members. this is a milestone. young women now know that they will not be overlooked in their performance, that performance is worthwhile. and that's the message i want to give to the far right. the fish stinks from the head. the fact that young women are overlooked is because management is all male, and therefore it is the crucial step to overcome male society and reach the human society. thanks to lara wolters, thanks to evelyn regner for their work on this point. but this milestone is a milestone and not the end point: women still hold more than 40% and one third of the management positions. so now companies are getting a second chance to create real equality and to match reality with these rates.
the president, commissioner, colleagues. for almost ten years, the proposal for a european commission directive was blocked by the member states. in those ten years of negotiations, we have unfortunately seen little progress in europe in terms of the presence of women on boards. that is precisely why this directive is so important. from 1 july 2026, the composition of the boards of directors will need to be more balanced. yes, in an ideal world, quotas might be redundant, but we see that they are needed and we see that they work. for example, in belgium, there has been a clear improvement since the introduction of the federal quota law of 2012. in 2020, for the first time, more than one third of the total number of members of the board of directors were women. ten years ago, it was less than 10%. in 2022, boards of directors should no longer be synonymous with closed men's clubs. we need women at every table where important decisions are made. only in this way will we evolve towards a more balanced union, towards a more balanced society.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, we have all kind of opinions about each other in this parliament, but at the end of the day we are all good people with good intentions and just different ideas. we must remember this when we speak about difficult topics, we must recognise together that until now none of our actions solved the migration crisis. instead, they have allowed more and more people to die in the sea. they have allowed human smugglers to get richer. they have fed false hope and led innocent people to cursed roads. i am ashamed when i see these results. we have abandoned the real refugees. we have given power to human smugglers. we have turned our shores into silent cemeteries of people’s children, mothers or fathers and their dreams. this must change. false compassion and actions that actually lead to a worse situation are not enough. the open borders and the current chaos are a threat to schengen and an invitation to die. the question is not how to save a boat in italy, the question is why could this boat even depart from the first harbour? the question is also why some ngos act like ferries for the human smugglers in the mediterranean sea. we must be clear, we must be firm and we must be fair. we must be strict with illegal migrants with no need of protection and fair to actual victims. only then can we implement true solidarity with migration policy that is aligned with our sense of humanity. to achieve this, we must face reality. we need partnerships with neighbouring countries, even if we sometimes hold our nose. we need to go back to the idea of external processing of asylum requests. we need an information campaign that shows the truth to young people, we need to address the problem of returns, and we need to help italy and greece. we can do this if we leave ideology and face reality, speak frankly with each other.
mr president, the asylum crisis is back from the dead. in belgium there are now 40 000 asylum seekers a year, in the whole of europe there are close to one million. that is not sustainable and i have therefore tabled a resolution, a resolution which seeks to resolve the matter once and for all. the proposal is to repeal the 1967 new york protocol. we would then be taking in refugees from europe only, as we are doing now with the numerous ukrainian refugees. that was the intent of the 1951 refugee convention after world war ii: the european union is a great example of this. but in 1967 that protocol removed that limitation and we are now expected to welcome the whole world here. it has to stop. allowing millions of migrants into our country will disrupt our society and implode our social security system. i therefore ask for your support for this resolution.
president, ladies and gentlemen, it is actually sad that we have to have this debate today. my party has been pushing for years for the completion of the internal market, including the energy market. the fact that this didn't happen comes at a very high price. our businesses are suffering. the european union is deindustrialising. there is an exodus to the united states and the eu always responds with more rules, with more administrative burdens, instead of focusing on growth and more growth. this can be achieved by completing the internal market with growth of 9%. we are also seeing today the consequences of the lack of energy corridors. we have to build terminals and pipelines in a feverish manner, whereas green electricity could have been flowing from south to north and from east to west for a long time. finally, i would like to stress that it is unacceptable for us to abandon the stable form of energy which is nuclear energy.
in writing. the macro-financial assistance we are discussing today and a symbol of our unwavering solidarity with our friends and future fellow citizens in ukraine. the barbaric invasion of russia destroyed infrastructure and homes. she has seen unspeakable atrocities against civilian populations. but it also has a devastating effect on the financial viability of the ukrainian state: revenues have fallen and expenditure has exploded. we cannot allow ukraine to go bankrupt. we are thus providing aid of 18 billion for the whole of 2023, in parallel with the support provided by our american allies. for our ukrainian friends, this international support gives them a perspective to prepare their 2023 budget under better conditions. finally, the conditions attached to this support, in particular in the fight against corruption, judicial reform, respect for the rule of law, good governance and modernisation of institutions, will ensure that these amounts are used properly despite the difficult circumstances of this atrocious war. i would like to ask you all to support this macrofinancial assistance. for the ukrainian people. for the peace of our continent.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i wish to thank this parliament for again having the situation in belarus on the agenda and for your relentless support to the people of belarus. we addressed the situation in belarus and its involvement in russia’s war of aggression against ukraine at the last plenary on 19 october 2022. on that occasion, the high representative, josep borrell, condemned the involvement by belarus in the strongest possible terms and expressed eu support to belarussians facing the worsening repression of lukashenko’s regime. unfortunately, this repression continues to intensify. there are now more than 1450 political prisoners – a number that increases by the day and that includes nobel peace prize winner, ales bialiatski. this is just the tip of the iceberg. since august 2020, almost 40 000 people have been temporarily arrested, including some 500 journalists, of whom 33 remain in prison. political opponents have been sentenced to long prison terms, up to 18 years, and the opposition in exile is criminalised and would face draconian sentences if they were to return to belarus. recent amendments to the criminal code, which can be used retroactively, open the possibility of the use of the death penalty to punish ‘attempted acts of terrorism’. most political activists are potentially affected by these amendments. the eu has led three successful resolutions in the un human rights council to report on the situation in belarus and establish a robust accountability mechanism under the high commissioner for human rights. we support, both politically and financially, the international accountability platform for belarus, which collects evidence of the crimes with a view to holding the perpetrators accountable. the eu has clearly declared that the lukashenko regime lacks any democratic legitimacy, and the eu strongly supports the demand for free and fair elections. in this context, we continue to support the democratic forces and we strongly encourage them to remain united. we will continue to provide strong support to the civil society and to the people of belarus, as we have already done with over eur 100 million in direct support. also, as you know, the eu has already imposed six rounds of sanctions against the belarus regime, and work is currently ongoing to adopt more sanctions in the context of human rights violations, for instance, against judges and prosecutors. in the event of further belarusian involvement in russia’s war against ukraine, further areas will be identified. we also regularly engage with the main leader of the belarussian opposition, ms tsikhanouskaya. she has been received by the eu at the highest levels, including by president of the commission, ursula von der leyen, and by president of the european council, charles michel. most recently, she also had an informal meeting with all eu foreign ministers ahead of the november foreign affairs council. to conclude, our engagement remains strong. we will continue to support the legitimate quest of belarussian people for the rule of law, for free and fair elections, and for independence.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the forced displacement of people in the context of the escalation of the conflict in the eastern part of the democratic republic of the congo (drc) (2022/2957 ((rsp)) *. the following table is added: * see minutes of the hearing.
author. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, armed groups in the east of the democratic republic of congo have escalated violence. we can see this in the march 23rd movement rebel group, which is currently trying to drive millions of women and children from their territory and systematically trying to actually rape women to achieve their political advancement within that territory. the people there often suffer from food and water shortages, and the european parliament has therefore decided to adopt an urgent resolution calling on the international community to try to put pressure on all actors in this area and to resolve this. i have to say that this resolution was agreed by all the groups from left to right. and i think that we're sending a pretty strong and clear signal to all the parties involved that we want to resolve this conflict and we care about ending this violence.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. where do we get our raw materials? the question is one we ask far too rarely, and far too often the answer is: from a war zone. we source over 70% of our cobalt from the eastern part of the drc, and we store over 60% of our coltan there. these are all substances that are in every single cell phone. and it is there that in recent days almost 200,000 people have had to flee from armed rebel groups such as m23, fdlr, etc. in the congo, nearly 6 million people are now internally displaced. that's the highest rate in the world, but here it's just one of many forgotten conflicts. this can't go on! we have a damn responsibility to these people, just because we get so much of our raw materials from them. that means we have to provide humanitarian aid now. the neighbouring countries must stop and prevent the illegal import of the raw materials of the conflict. but we also need to stop funding these rebel groups in the long term and make sure that the conflict-related material regulation really works. but above all, all the regional parties to the conflict must come together and finally clarify their geo-economic interests once and for all, otherwise war and the displacement of people will never end.
author. mr president, it has been proven for years now, even by the united nations, that the rwandan government is supporting the m23 rebels in rwanda. rebels who spread terror and death in the democratic republic of congo, especially in the east, where the conflict has already killed millions. we therefore know the full responsibility of the rwandan government. so what is the european union doing? what are the european countries doing? you'd expect some sanctions. this is the response that the european union often has when we see this kind of action by one country against another. but no, no, you're not. european governments today decided to strengthen their military cooperation with rwanda. france, in particular, announced a strengthening of its military cooperation. the european union is giving 20 million to rwanda for its involvement in mozambique. and the united states, as you know, has long been a very important partner of rwanda. you know that today, if a state wants to sell arms to the democratic republic of congo, it must notify the united nations, which slows down or even prevents the supply of arms to a country that has been attacked too often and so often. this policy - where we say in words, in words that we respect congolese sovereignty, but in reality, our policy of interference and undermining - is unacceptable. we have to stop this right now because we need, and the congolese need, peace today.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the atrocities committed - such as rapes, the displacement of populations, the massacres of various families - all the foreign forces present in the congo in various forms and illegally occupying the territory, in particular the m23 and the adf, must leave the congo immediately and unconditionally. all these acts - and this has been said by some authors with great force and i agree with them - which clearly constitute violations of human rights, serious international crimes, must be severely prosecuted. the european union has a major role to play in meeting these crucial requirements to enable the congo to regain its calm on the eve of elections scheduled for the coming months. there can be no democracy without ending this cyclical conflict without judgment. i express my heartfelt wish that all democratic forces will quickly gather around the table and agree to determine the electoral process. various works have already been carried out. we must now go further, there is urgency in the matter. a dialogue must be established in a lasting way. this will only be possible if we find a solution to the current conflict. i hope, of course, that the united nations will hear our message and take over by adopting a resolution to bring calm and peace to the congo.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that there is a real urgency to act. i swear, doubs, it's right around here. well, in the last few weeks, wolf attacks have increased. here as elsewhere in france and europe. we must therefore act quickly because today wolf populations are moving and causing inestimable losses, economic losses, but also psychological losses for our farmers and their families. and beyond that, the preservation of pastoralism and the maintenance of some land is clearly at stake. so yes, we clearly need to rethink the classification of the wolf in our regions, because this species is definitely no longer threatened today. the european union has also taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. we need better management and we cannot keep throwing the ball back to the member states. preventive measures are no longer enough, action must be taken. it is also the renewal of our generations of farmers that is at stake.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the habitats directive works well for wildlife, because a population that was once completely endangered has become so numerous that it now threatens others in the wild. in slovenia, the country where the commissioner and i come from, in ten years 300 wolves have become 1200 wolves, 20 have become 30 - excuse me - bears 300 have become 400, 1200 have become bears. from 30 wolves, there are now about 130 wolves. i invite you to come with me to the bloke, to kochevsk, to gorenjska and talk to the farmers who are attacked daily by these animals. and i think we're going to come to the conclusion that something needs to be done about the protection status. i am glad that this debate has finally come to the european parliament, but that will not be enough. we need to act and change the status of conservation and help regulate the balance of nature that is broken today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to make a correction to what i have heard: it is totally wrong to say that europe's forests are in decline and that we are losing hectares every year. you see big. the european forest has grown by the equivalent of portugal in 25 years, which is no small feat. that doesn't mean there's no biodiversity problem, of course. so we must hear the call of the men and women, the shepherds, the shepherdesses, the farmers, who are indeed perhaps even closer to nature than anyone else in this assembly and who really need our support. that this increase in wolf numbers can be effectively addressed at european level by taking appropriate measures in different areas. these adapted measures also include compensation. in some member states, including my own, compensation takes an incredible amount of time. farmers have to fight to be able to identify these wolf attacks. compensation must be total, covering all costs, for all farmers and appropriate measures must be taken at the level of each member state to ensure that this regulation can be put in place as quickly as possible.
madam president, of course, i don’t want to speak against, but the ecr group has an idea – oh, are you surprised...don’t be – so, the ecr group would like to propose another title, namely ‘the corruption allegation against members, staff and former members of the european parliament’. we support the initiative, but we think it’s quite clear that there has been corruption and we don’t want to speak about suspicions. the title must be clear. we, the european parliament, are not for sale. we are lawmakers. and also we request the vote to happen as a roll call vote because we need to be transparent in this house.
madam president, i would like to request to vote again on the proposal about qatar, because it was very confusing. we could vote, for example, first on the title and then on the decision. otherwise, it will give the impression that some members who wanted another title are against the idea of having a debate on a resolution. could we vote again in a more clear way, please, madam president.
mr president, europe has been too dependent on imported energy for far too long and we are now seeing where this has led, with a huge energy shortage throughout europe. we must now urgently step up investment and invest in all low-emission sources of energy, including nuclear power, and accelerate investment in energy transmission and storage. at present, the main obstacle to the rapid progress of these processes in all european countries is the slow pace of the licensing processes. it is therefore very good that the matter has now been taken up and these core development areas are being proposed, where the permitting processes should be brought forward very quickly to give us a boost to investment. this is a very welcome suggestion. in addition, in my own country, finland, citizens also have a very wide right to appeal against investment decisions, and therefore it is important that member states also put enough resources into the judiciary so that the judiciary can quickly deal with various complaints and these necessary building investments can be launched, because energy is needed now.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i’ve listened very carefully to the contributions of the honourable members, and what i sense, in conclusion, is a strong willingness to move forward fast on this issue by many in this plenary. and i welcome that and i hope we can move forward very fast. but having listened also to some other members of this house, i would like just to take the time i have to take us back to why we’re doing this. why did we put repowereu on the table? you know, it’s only about two hours from here by plane where young men and women are dying every day because they’re trying to protect their country from an autocratic invader. and this autocrat has weaponised the resource he has, which is fossil fuels, to try not just to subjugate and conquer ukraine, but also to bring us to our knees and to impose his vision of an autocratic society on the whole of europe. and he still believes that he can use energy to weaken us and to bring us to our knees. and i think this should be in our minds when we discuss the measures we need to take today. we need to rapidly increase europe’s energy sovereignty. we can no longer be dependent on outside energy resources which come with political strings attached. so we need to speed up the transition to renewables. we need to rapidly reduce our energy consumption. we need to diversify our energy resourcing – as much as we still need fossil fuels – and diversify it in such a way that not one external party can use that energy as a political weapon to weaken us or to influence us. that is what repowereu is all about. i wanted to emphasise this because i think we, all of us individually, at least once a day, we have to think about these young men and women who are dying for freedom, who are dying for european values, who are dying to protect their country and to keep that country’s independence. they are fighting for european values. they are fighting for our way of life. and they should get the support also in a way that leads us to be stronger and more sovereign in the energy field so we can rebuild ukraine together with them once this aggression is over.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am very pleased to see the consensus here in the european parliament on speeding up the approval procedures. i am also pleased that we will be able to make some compromises on the subject of species protection. dear s&d, no one here wants to eliminate environmental laws. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the subject of biomass also fits into this picture. the commission has made a mistake: to write 'biomass' deliberately is not to include it. it is clear that this is causing some reflection in the european parliament. i admit, you can't treat it like solar and wind, i know that. but we'll have to think of something. we shall probably have a very close vote here in the european parliament. we have to think about how we can get biomass with accelerated approval procedures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. because it was a good initiative by the european parliament to take up the council regulation, to take the most important points from it - the good points - and to combine that with repowereu, and to do so in a debate. and we're going to settle this in a vote. we have also made a small contribution to speeding up the procedure. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have made this possible. and a big thank you to the staff who have been fantastic supporters. i look forward to the vote on wednesday. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. the rapid and efficient increase in capacity for clean and renewable energy is crucial to achieving the objectives of the paris agreement. the rapid transition to renewable energy is also a necessary part of europe's decoupling from russian fossil fuels. i am therefore pleased that parliament supports the acceleration and streamlining of the administrative and licensing processes for renewable energy production facilities and the more accelerated process of the 'go-to' areas for renewable energy sources. however, it is also important to take account of the new energy facilities that are being built, which is why it is great that the european parliament has supported the idea that natura 2000 nature reserves or ecological corridors cannot be considered as areas of rapid development of renewable energy. this is important to safeguard biodiversity and ecosystem services. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency. i do not think that the increase in bioenergy capacity should be supported or encouraged by the member states.
in writing. the legislative document we are debating today and voting on tomorrow, adapting the processes for realising the repowereu initiative to the new challenges we are facing in the field of energy transition, is of enormous importance. it is essential to combine a strong response to the emergency and the impacts of war and russian blackmail on the access of european households and businesses to energy with continued union leadership in the fight against climate change. some people want to use this window of opportunity to stop the energy transition, the green deal and decarbonisation. voting on this report, without any last-minute distortions, will be to affirm a strong commitment between speeding up the ability to respond to people's immediate needs and consolidating the principles and objectives of environmental sustainability of the planet. engaging national and regional authorities more and better, enhancing people's participation as enshrined in the energy union governance regulation, speeding up decision-making processes without breaking down transparency and defeating bureaucracy are key steps to living up to our mandate and serving those who elected us to be the voice of their problems and the promoter of the answers they need.
dear colleagues, we have with us today the prime minister of slovenia, robert golob. prime minister, dear robert, let me start by thanking you for accepting our invitation to address the european parliament as part of our ‘this is europe’ series of debates. these have been difficult days for europe, and it is time to re-affirm our values. the war in ukraine is continuing unabatedly. pushed back on the battlefield, the kremlin has increasingly turned its war machine onto innocent civilians, weaponising basic commodities in a desperate attempt to get ukraine – and europe – to concede. i am proud of our clear, united and unwavering european response, because our values – our freedom, our liberty, our democracy – are non-negotiable. the people of ukraine are fighting precisely for these values. and yet this does not mean that the consequences are not being felt. people in slovenia are worried. people in europe are worried. they are worried about heating their homes; about getting to the end of the month; about paying their bills. this is the time when european leadership is needed the most. this means common actions, solidarity in gas supply, and the creation of the credible energy single market. this is how we address our citizens’ concerns in the short term. but we also need to be clear: our surest way of achieving full energy independence is by speeding up our green transition and this has become just as much about security as it is about climate ambition. this is not the time to backtrack. prime minister, with two-thirds of slovenia’s power generation being co2-free and by further pledging to increase the use of renewable energy by 2030, your country is already showing leadership in this field. what is more, by increasing interconnections with its neighbours, slovenia is well on track to improve its energy resilience. i look forward to see this same commitment reflected by all member states within our union. prime minister, i also see slovenian leadership when it comes to accelerating the integration process of the western balkans, and here i speak more specifically about bosnia and herzegovina. this year, we have already seen – with ukraine and with moldova – what a powerful message eu candidacy status can give. my hope for us is to have this same courage also with our friends in bosnia and herzegovina. dear prime minister, dear robert, the floor is yours.
prime minister of slovenia. dear president of metsola, dear members of the european parliament, dear citizens of europe. i know it's gonna be very crowded later, so i'm gonna take a little time now to warm you up for what's coming up at 12:00. and i hope i'm interesting enough in my performance. it is indeed a great honour for me to be able to address parliament today, to address all citizens, because i want to talk about the common future of the european union. a shared future that believes in the power of connecting, the power of cooperation and the power of unity. i myself, coming from a small member of the european union, am keenly aware of the fact that only when we come together on the basis of our strengths and virtues and when each one contributes what he or she does best can we create a community that will be most successful. and when that community is united and determined, then that community can push the boundaries of what's possible. and i believe that it is precisely today that europe - europe as a whole, not just the european union - is being tested, precisely in terms of how much power it has to deal with the historic challenges it faces. after two years of living in a state of obsession with covid, and not beating, i'm not going to talk about covid today, we have been faced with a situation due to russian aggression that we have not seen since the end of world war ii on european soil. we are facing a situation in which all international norms are violated, the sovereignty of a country is violated by military aggression without cause. this aggression has, amongst all the other implications, enormous consequences for us, for all citizens of the european union and for our economy. not just the energy crisis, not just the energy prices, all of these things have led to the fact that we are now facing an economic crisis and, above all, rising prices in all areas and record inflation. so i'm going to focus on three areas today. i will be focusing most of my time - given my background - on energy and green transition, the green transition. i will also touch on the rule of law and geopolitical endeavours, in which slovenia is a small but nonetheless important piece of the puzzle. dear ladies, dear gentlemen, let me give you just a brief background on myself in order to fully understand why i will address energy as the major topic during my speech. for the last 15 years, i was working at an energy company: a company that i founded and was running as ceo; a company that grew from zero to 3 billion in revenue; a company that was the largest energy trader in southern and eastern europe; a company that grew from zero to the largest supplier of electricity in slovenia; and a company that in recent years was also the largest provider of solar power plants, meaning that we did embark on investing in renewables as well. having said that, let's switch to the main topic, and that is energy. it's totally clear to everyone that over-dependence on one gas source, which is from russia, led to the weaponization of that particular energy source during the last year, and that we are facing the consequences of that weaponization right now. but even though the lack of supply was rightly addressed by the swift action of both the parliament and the commission during the last weeks meaning that just by combining the three factors which is being able to reduce demand, being able to find new sources from friendly countries and being able to keep the pipelines open throughout europe by implementing the solidarity clause, we were able to cover for the energy needs it was not enough to address the prices. and this is one topic that i always emphasize whenever i speak to my colleagues at the european council and that is that, yes, a lot has been done, but more needs to be done as well in the future. and this week is crucial in that regard. so either we address properly the high energy prices and when i say properly it means decisively, and when i say decisively, we need to implement regulatory changes in the market mechanisms because the internal energy market at the moment, i will not say it is not working, i will say is being worked by the speculative money, but for their own profits and not for the benefits of the population of europe. and this is where the responsibility of the european council comes into light, because it is up to us to address this issue in the proper manner. and we've already asked the commission once to come up with a set of rules, a set of measures, which will adequately address this issue and i can't say that i'm happy with what the commission has come up with. it won't work. it's not enough. we will need to be more decisive in order to reduce the volatility in the markets. we will need to be more decisive to eliminate price spikes. and we will need to be more decisive when it comes to the gas price caps. the energy ministers are sitting in the council today and i certainly hope and urge that they will come to a common decision by whatever means in order to show the unity not to the population but to the markets, because we need to show the unity to the speculative traders and, remember, i made my living doing that, so i know what i'm talking about. so we need to show them a clear message and unity that we will not be left drained. we will not let them drain our budgets. we will not let them drain the global competitiveness of our industry for their profits. it's a very important message, and that's why i'm repeating it all over the place and i'm doing it right now. but the future doesn't stop today and it doesn't stop this winter, so we need to look forward, forward, and the green transition is actually not just the only way forward, but it's also the only way that addresses the three issues simultaneously. it does improve and it does bring autonomy, independence, energy independence to europe. it is the only way to energy independence. it does mitigate climate change because that's the only way how to reduce the impact of energy on climate. and it also, at the end of the day, brings lower energy prices. so we do address all three issues simultaneously and that means that, again, we cannot linger. we need to move as bold and as ambitious as possible. if that means speeding up the permitting process, well, yes. if that means building more, not just interconnectors, but more gas and pipe and power lines, yes, we do need more power lines at all levels. we can put them underground, but we need them and we need more storage capacity as well to enable the grids to connect more renewables. and this is really the only way forward. and if we act boldly and decisively and if we link the wind potential of the north with some potential of the south put some hydro in the mix and some storage in between yeah, in the next 10 to 15 years, we could be totally renewable in europe. it is a vision that is doable. okay, it might take us five more years than that, but it's doable. and that's the most important message. and for that reason, not just because of the energy crisis that we're facing now, we really owe it, we owe it to our children to do it now because it's doable so there's absolutely no excuse that we wait with our next steps when it comes to that. before entering politics, while i was still the executive, i was also the eu climate pact ambassador. i was promoting, and sincerely promoting it, because for living i was doing energy trading but for my soul i was promoting the self-sustainable home energy systems the systems where each of us that owns a home can become totally independent on himself, on him, on hers or his energy needs, for all energy needs. electric vehicle, sunroof, solar heating, heat pumps and storage by doing that, we helped thousands and thousands of households in slovenia to become totally independent from the existing crisis. so they're not just helping the environment, at the moment they're totally independent on the energy crisis. the one thing that we're addressing all the time when it comes to the energy transition, we're always addressing the how do we deal with the energy for our machines, for our technologies. but we are overlooking one important thing. this is my second message. we're overlooking the how do we address the energy that we need to fuel our bodies, which is food. the food system that we are utilising right now is totally unsustainable for our future, totally. unless we change the food production and food consumption in a very thorough way, we will not be able to meet any of the climate goals. because if the rest of the world were to follow in our footsteps, we would need seven planets just to sustain the food consumption, which is obviously not something that can be done. now, of course, each of us can start a change in himself or herself. changing the diet. of course, that's easy. just switch from less meat i'm not saying no meat but that s consume less meat, let s consume more plant-based food. anyway, it's healthier, but this is not the story today. but in that way, we will help the planet and we will help our children as well. not just by teaching them how to be healthier, but also in teaching them how to be sustainable. but that's an individual choice. what is the responsibility of the government or of the authorities? the main responsibility is the building of the awareness, scientific facts when it comes to food plus and this is important to enable the choice, enable the choice of healthier food to be available in public systems. that's what we did on a small scale in slovenia back home. and results are amazing. we didn't have to force anyone and 50% of consumers at a particular facility switched within a month on a totally plant-based food. it was an individual choice that was enabled by the authorities. not enforced this is very important. going back to the other thing where the responsibility of the government or the authorities is even more crucial is, of course, the rule of law. and when it comes to the rule of law, i would share a personal story with you. as you probably remember, i was minding my own business, earning lots of money and being quite happy, up to a certain point when i realized that the rule of law in slovenia is just being eaten away. by the previous government. the judicial system was slowly being weakened. the freedom of speech and the media especially freedom of media was being taken away. and a certain point in time, again, being happy, i just realized i don't want to live in a country where the rule of law is non-existent. this is why i stepped into politics. this is why i stepped out of my comfort zone, not in my comfort zone. and this is why i stand here. and this is so important and that's why i realized that the rule of law is not something to be negotiated about, but is something to be enforced. and that is the responsibility of all of us who are in the political system. by saying that, the first thing that comes to your mind once you have to make a decision on whether you step into politician role or not, is okay, how do we deal with all the exposure? the fake news exposure. hate speech exposure. because that's immediately what you get once you decide to step into politics. and i'm not talking about uncoordinated or spontaneous fake news or spontaneous hate speech, i'm talking about hate speech, which is financed and instigated by the existing political forces or lobbies it doesn't matter what you call them. so i urge and i know that you've already done some steps when it comes to hate speech, parliament, i know it's been the council, the european council again, who was blocking, who is blocking it. and i urge you to find new ways, new ways how to address the issue of paid-for hate speech with a clear, clear goal. and the goal is, you know what, to keep the dissent people out of politics. that's really the goal. i know there's a fine balance between freedom of speech and hate speech, the measures against one and the measures to really improve freedom of speech. and i'm pretty much sure you'll know how to strike the balance because the freedom of speech, especially social media, they do play an important role when it comes to really bringing things to our awareness that would otherwise stay hidden. and, in this regard, i would like to specifically address the iranian situation, which would not be noticed by anyone in europe because of the censorship unless there were social media. and all the efforts made especially by the iranian women and with their inventive, non-violent ways of protesting against the brutality of the regime and for their human rights, their women's rights is something to be really proud of and to give them support as much as possible. so i urge you to be loud, to keep staying loud, and to keep pointing the way forward, where they will be heard also within this particular parliament. i know lots has been done and i urge you to do more. let's show them that we do know what our geopolitical responsibility is. even though most of the time, again, within the european council, thats not the case. okay, i'm switching back to slovenian, sorry. which brings me to the last item on the agenda, geopolitical efforts, including slovenia. if anything, the european union has shown responsibility and unity in the face of russian aggression against ukraine. and so i am grateful to all the institutions, including the european council, which has shown that, indeed, when it is necessary, we can be united. we were also united on the point of using the most powerful tool the european union has, and that is the enlargement process. i welcome the decision of all the institutions to recognise the status of candidate for membership of the european union for both ukraine and moldova and i welcome all the efforts, including those of parliament, to accelerate the accession process. because the process of accession or the process of enlargement of the european union is actually a tool that we in slovenia are very much aware of, because we are a relatively new member. i remember very well the hope, the hope for a better future that this expansion process gave us. i therefore understand very well the hope for a better future that we are giving to the citizens of ukraine and moldova. and that's why i'm calling for us to not stop at this process. the same applies to the western balkans region. the western balkans have been subject to intense propaganda pressure since the beginning of the russian aggression. the pressure to break the unity of europe as a whole in condemning russian aggression and, above all, in supporting ukraine. and that is why the european union today must realise how much this political tool can contribute not only to stability in the region, but also to the fact that we will all remain united in supporting ukraine. it's not just about bosnia and herzegovina, but i'm gonna be attached to it anyway. it's the entire western balkans. but bosnia and herzegovina is a country that has been the victim of aggression in the past. and that is why we owe it to bosnia and herzegovina to show today that we have not forgotten it. just like we don't want ukraine to ever be forgotten... in years to come. because this is the story we need to show that we're not just giving signals at the beginning, but that we're in a position to tell the story to the end. and in bosnia, we have to finish the story, the story that started 20 years ago and has not yet made any progress. and i know you're wondering, "who should make the first move?" but with slovenia being a young member, i'd like to say this. the effect of joining the european union is transformative. we have changed. membership of the european union changes a country, it changes the outlook of the people first, and then the people make sure that the policy changes too. it can't be otherwise. expecting political structures to change on their own is illusory and does not produce results. we have to work... as european citizens, we must work to convince our fellow citizens from the western balkans that their only place is in europe. and then they have to make sure that the political structures change, so that the political structures accept this fact as something that they have to fight for. and then they will embrace the rule of law and democracy. i don't believe in the reverse order myself. that is why in slovenia we strongly support all political structures to really move this process to a higher level in bosnia and herzegovina and to give bosnia, and above all the people of bosnia and herzegovina, the opportunity to become equal european citizens. just for the end. slovenia is a proud member of the european family and we are very pleased to be able to build the european future together not only with the existing members of the european union, but with the whole of europe. and we believe that this is the path that will actually lead not only to peace, but also to prosperity for all citizens, all inhabitants of europe. europe on the move!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear prime minister golob: let me warmly welcome you in such a bitter moment for this parliament. slovenia was the first country of former yugoslavia to join the european union. this stands, and should stand, as an example and a role model for the western balkans. and i must congratulate slovenia on its great integration process that you have just described as a great example for the whole region and for all europe. secondly, congratulations on your new president, the first female president, despite she is not from our political family. this is always a very positive and progressive step towards equality, and that should be here naturally, point of order. we have all have some concerns, including on rule of law, which we must share and which is also the point of these debates. first, slovenia itself has suffered from internal border checks before. but now we hear that you may consider introducing internal border checks of your own after croatia joins schengen. this would send the worst possible signals, especially after the council rejected the accession of romania and bulgaria. if it happens, the european parliament will be ready to scrutinise any individual violation of our freedom of movement in slovenia or elsewhere in europe. second, there are some concerns regarding the rule of law. we are paying close attention to the changing of laws ruling the media landscape in slovenia, in a rather unusual and urgent procedure. and let me tell you that the resignation of the interior minister after allegations of political pressure regarding the police is also troubling. we have so often criticised recent developments in spain or even in my own country regarding concentration of the power of police. i have to mention this case here as well. does this not trigger a rule-of-law alert when we speak about interference in police commands? finally, slovenia is an example in the support to ukraine in the current war in humanitarian, financial and military aid, as you have pointed out. however, it is concerning that the members of a european parliament that support your government did not support the resolution of this house recognising russia as a regime sponsor of terrorism. how do you assess this reluctance to support ukraine in all possible ways? your fellow slovene slavoj žižek, famously satirised the geographical divisions in europe by pointing out what separates the balkans from mitteleuropa. but those divisions must be behind us. the sava or the danube do not separate us. just like that, the dnipro does not divide ukrainians. europe is large enough for us all. europe is more than a continent; it is an idea. and it is also an idea in slovene and loved by the slovenians. even though today we meet in strasbourg, let me recall a small piece of brussels: near the schuman roundabout, not too far from the european parliament stands a memorial with the first line of your national anthem, žive naj vsi narodi. god’s blessing on all nations. in this difficult winter, in these difficult times, let these words, these slovenian words, this anthem by the great france prešeren echo throughout europe. may all our nations thrive, žive naj vsi narodi.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, welcome to the european parliament, prime minister. it’s good to hear sincere words of, i would say, a decent person who is in politics. we have at least two things in common. i started my career in the private sector as well for 22 years, and what made me enter politics was the fact that in my municipality, the same party, held a majority, an absolute majority for 65 years, they considered power as their property. and this is why i said, well, i need to step in because a former prime minister in belgium once said, you know, in politics, once all the disgusted people will have left, only the disgusting ones will remain. and so we don’t want this to happen. so welcome. and it’s such a relief to see slovenia under your leadership stopping the slippery slope and reversing the slippery slope on which it was. we are witnessing within the european union enough of trampling on the rule of law and european values not to see it happen in one more member state. and that was exactly what was happening in slovenia. so for all this, thank you. i am really happy that you are there. i have also been touched by the fact that you have been tearing down fences. you know, asylum and migration are serious challenges, but you understand that indeed it is beyond the capabilities of any single member state to find a solution, certainly not with barbed wire, and that we need a common response to that in solidarity with each other. and again, for that, thank you. now, you said a lot about energy and about the green transition. and of course, there is a lot with which we agree. you are remarkable because you are the first head of government that i hear asserting that there is speculation on the energy market. you know, when i engage with the commission on that, their answer is no, no, no, no. the price reflects market fundamentals and only market fundamentals. and yes, we have to go after that. i totally agree with that. no. is the price cap the best way? well, maybe there are other financial regulation instruments like position limits and curbing the entry into market of some players that we need to activate. and there we are totally your allies on this. now, on the green transition, i know that you feel that this is absolutely crucial to our future. you do not present that just as a defensive thing, but also an ambitious thing. and i agree with that. but i might have some questions for you because, well, my friends in slovenia tell me, for instance, that the red tape to install solar panels on roofs in a country where basically most people have their own house, that all these red tape has not been cut yet. also that you want to prolong the extinction of this fossil-based power plant, three more years until 2033. and then there’s the issue of nuclear. now we can have a debate about nuclear energy. but again, this is presented in slovenia as the silver bullet that will solve all problems in energy. really? i mean, if the business case for nuclear is so good, it shouldn’t be afraid of a fair and square competition in the public debate with other forms of energy. and indeed, you mentioned renewables, and there we would like a more balanced public debate on that. another thing that you didn’t mention, but where slovenia is strong, i think your country is probably the european champion of biodiversity. i understand that, per capita, your country has the most beekeepers in europe. so i don’t understand why slovenia is not more proactive in supporting the sustainable use of pesticides regulation, because you know that there is a lot of resistance and we need support, including in the council, not just in the parliament, to make it happen. so, prime minister, a lot to agree with. frankly, we want to work with you and well, let us hope that indeed what you are doing in slovenia is not just a parenthesis, but the beginning of a new future. so i’m glad to work with you.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, one frenchman in three is refusing medical care, a middle class is collapsing, being dismantled and downgraded, an increasingly violent precarious situation affecting more than 11 million of my countrymen, our businesses are being relocated, social dumping is being institutionalized through seconded work, a pension reform at the age of 65 imposed by brussels, a vertiginous rise in the bankruptcies of our smes, our small businesses and our artisans, accelerated by the energy crisis, a farmer's suicide every two days, our fishermen sacrificed, french people in the dark and cold this winter, after the sabotage of our nuclear industry, in which we had invested, which was sacrificed by brussels and which ensured our energy independence, a double-digit inflation, a double-digit recession in europe, and this in the context of massive repatriation of our compatriots: immigration. mr séjourné, this is your europe, it is the europe of brussels, of technocracy and globalism. this is your europe, we leave it to you! our europe is the genius of the peoples, ladies and gentlemen. it is the place of emergence of nations that have allowed us through the centuries, through emulation, diversity and progress, to shine around the world. this is the europe we defend and cherish, with economic patriotism and respect for the sovereignty of nations. you will have understood that our europe is not your european union. they are not only fundamentally opposed to each other, but also irreconcilable. but rest assured, our europe will outlive you.
thank you very much, ms jamet. it is truly a pity, however, when you have a prime minister of a country that you could engage with that you don’t use this opportunity to do exactly that.
on behalf of the ecr club. the honourable chairman, the honourable prime minister. croatia and slovenia are neighbouring and very friendly countries. i hope the slovenians are cheering for croatia in the world cup semi-finals tonight. but i do have a few questions. the first relates to a subject you did not touch on in your opening statement, namely the issue of security and the rule of law in the context of illegal migration. the european union is at a tipping point in these years where there are those within the european union who advocate a responsible approach, a strong border guarding that also sends a message to migrants that they shouldn't even try to cross that border illegally because they're not going to succeed so migrants avoid those things and we have a lot less humanitarian disaster, and we have those who advocate a so-called soft approach where they send a message to migrants: just come, one way or another, you'll make it across that border. in fact, they're not only sending that message, they're saying not only is it possible to cross the border illegally, but we're going to help you do it. so now we have an indication, recently, as the ocean viking ship in italy, that there is an active cooperation between these ngos and people smugglers. i'm curious to know what your position is. will you support croatia in the responsible guarding of the schengen external borders and what will be the slovenian contribution to the protection of the common external border, especially in the context already mentioned the recent resignation of your minister of the interior tatjana bobnar. can we expect the efficiency and stability of your government on this issue? question number two. you've talked a lot about energy and the lack of energy. i think it's more or less clear that this shortage has been going on since before the russian aggression against ukraine. so we have in the european parliament an approach that is called green and that is called ambitious, although it is not, it is very often unrealistic, unreasonable, even counterproductive, that goes exclusively for bans. they would ban coal, they would ban gas, they would ban nuclear (the word is indecipherable), and then they would promote heat pumps, but they would ban fluorinated f-gases in the pumps and so on, yeah. you have invested a huge amount of money, 500 million euros in a recapitalization of the holding company in which it is not clear exactly what you will support. i'd be interested in that, too. the holding company also owns the shostanj thermal power plant and the krško nuclear power plant and i'm very interested to see what happens to krško. of course, there's the joint ownership of croatia and slovenia. i was wondering how you see this transition. of course we need a green transition, we just need to see how real it is, how fast it can go and i wonder how you see croatia's involvement in new projects in kršek?
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, mr prime minister, welcome to a ceo, a business owner who becomes prime minister directly. that's obviously something! i shall therefore deal with an element which was not mentioned in your speech, namely the question of social dumping. mr president, do you know the concept of social dumping? the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a national system of compensation for the loss of earnings resulting from the transfer of workers to another country. the framework for freedom of movement within the european union is called the 'freedom of movement for services'. and this social dumping today is due in particular to differences in social contributions and gross wages. in this case, social contributions are paid in the country where the contract was signed, rather than in the country where the work is performed. for companies this is often interesting, because they get a lot more to win and they pay more social security contributions. the workers are given a drama. the borealis scandal in antwerp shows that it is also becoming increasingly commonplace for non-european workers, workers who are being exploited shamelessly, and who are being sent to portugal via hungary to be tried in antwerp, belgium. there is social dumping, as you know, in various sectors: transport, construction... way too many sectors. in your country there is often a major role to play, so that even a european trade union federation complains about slovenia. this may be done under pressure from larger countries or other countries which have been urged by the slovenian government to do so. i looked at the numbers. almost one third of construction workers in slovenia are sent abroad, the highest percentage in the european union. six out of ten posted workers from slovenia are nationals of non-european countries, or at least non-members of the european union. in other words, companies established in slovenia are looking for workers abroad, not because they need them, but to send them immediately to other member states, exploit them to the full and make more profit, simply and, by the way, destroy labour law. this system exempts an amount of €128 million from social contributions. it's a real social security hold-up, let's be honest, and we're still talking about one country. i was in your country, in slovenia, about a year ago, under the previous government. i had a meeting with a slovene worker in the office, and she told me something that really shocked me. in a building of a ministry the same building as a ministry i had a list of postbus companies. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. so in the building of a ministry! so, mr prime minister, social dumping, whether through secondment or subcontracting, is a problem in europe today. we know there are solutions. this means, in particular, that the free movement of services must be subject to guarantees of working conditions, the principle of equal work for equal pay, the rejection of any discrimination between employees on the basis of the place where the contract was signed, and, i think, the drawing up of a european directive on the limitation of subcontracting chains, which serve only social dumping. so a question, mr prime minister: what will your government do to change the fundamental role played by slovenia in social dumping?
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this christmas millions of children in europe will be fighting cold and hunger. their parents will face a terrible dilemma: heating the house or bringing a hot dish to the table? all this is happening while multinational corporations are speculating unhindered on the price of energy and food. what should be basic rights, guaranteed to all, have instead become luxuries, and so more and more people are sliding into poverty. the child guarantee is a demand of this parliament to ensure fair and free access to early childhood education services, quality education, health care, healthy food and adequate housing. we have asked for an additional 20 billion for the period 2021-2027, but on the other hand, we have 18 out of 27 states that have delivered national plans. there are still a few missing. tackling child poverty requires a systemic approach. so, in the immediate future, we propose to ban evictions and power cuts. tax the extra profits of those who speculate on food and energy - i mean large organized distribution and energy companies - to support families and children in need with this money instead; introduce a minimum wage to combat the phenomenon of the working poor; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the unicef report, for example, raises a red flag for southern europe and, for example, italy: 46% of children in the southern half of the country are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, compared with 19% in the northern half. the child guarantee is only the beginning of a genuine european social deal, to rebuild europe on the concept of human dignity which we so often forget.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, the new year's eve is an opportunity to make good resolutions. it's a night where we set goals for the coming year. contrary to tradition, the european union has no problem in giving us the same number throughout the year, from 1 january to 31 december. the problem is that everyone knows that good resolutions are made to be broken. that's exactly what's happening here. this time, it is the children who are receiving the full attention of the european authorities. we agree: fighting poverty, ensuring that our young people have a good education and ensuring that the youngest are housed in affordable facilities must be top priorities. saying it is good; doing it is better. that is the problem: the union cannot do that, since we are talking about a child guarantee which is only 5% of a european social fund which is itself already a paltry sum. yet the numbers on the ground are far more worrying. one in four children in the european union is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. this is especially true at a time when prices are rising and temperatures are falling. the situation is deteriorating at high v speed. we have long denounced the wrong political and energy choices made here. thank you europe for the disastrous result that the french are suffering head-on. nineteen degrees in houses: imagine for the elderly and for children! if children are in poverty, it is because their families, especially single-parent families, are struggling to make ends meet. there is something indecent about this european guarantee, when it guarantees nothing. it is even more sad, with christmas approaching, that homes have nothing to warm hearts. the only guarantee that counts is that of employment, reindustrialisation and the return of public services. more than a good solution, it is the only solution.
president, commissioner, minister, colleagues, poverty and social exclusion still affect 91 million europeans, including 18 million children. the coronavirus crisis and the war in ukraine have only made things worse. rising prices are making it difficult for people in poverty to survive. the european child guarantee aims to ensure that every child has access to essential basic services: the european union is a major player in the world economy. only in this way can we break the cycle of generational poverty. however, there are still member states which have not submitted a national action plan, and this is incomprehensible. however, the esf+ provides financial resources to support those actions. and yes, it is important to monitor the implementation of these very closely in order to have a clear view of the use of resources. but exceptional circumstances call for exceptional measures and if additional financial resources are needed, commissioner, then we must provide them. because if you don't invest in children in poverty, you lose a whole generation. we have set ourselves targets to lift five million children out of poverty by 2030. we have to make this happen.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, corruption, money laundering, criminal organizations, so much cash that it took all night to count it. this isn't about drug gangs or the mafia. this is about members of this parliament and their staff. like everyone else, i am angry and deeply disappointed at so much selfishness, lack of conscience and contempt for democracy and our fellow citizens. why don't they move to qatar if they want to represent qatar? because they know how valuable our rule of law is here in europe, the rule of law that we all should cherish and protect, but which they are undermining. qatar is undermining trust in european institutions and our rule of law. this situation, these circumstances, these revelations, compel this house to determine exactly what happened, whether there are similar incidents of undue influence, and how this can be avoided in the future. our institution must act swiftly and adequately to safeguard its independence and credibility. the rules on transparency and integrity need to be strengthened. lobbying rules will also have to be considered for representatives of third countries. a genuinely independent monitoring of compliance with these rules should be established. parliament is not club med. so abolish the parliamentary delegations. we all know they're worthless and the committees can do the job. this investigation must go well, so that everyone knows that those who bribe or those who are corrupt will never go unpunished. that is the least we can do for the citizens and for the honest members of this house.
president, commissioner, with the decision we have taken today to end the vice-presidency of eva kaili, we have sent a strong signal. europe is not for sale, never. that was also a necessary signal, because this corruption scandal touches the heart of our european parliament, of our european project. everything about qatar - and i think everyone has said it here - has to be back on the table, starting with visa-free travel. we must give full cooperation to the judicial inquiry, in which the belgian services have done an excellent job. but this is just the beginning. we need to be fully transparent about all lobbying contacts in and around the european parliament and look at how the other european institutions deal with them. and it's wider than that. we must strictly follow the recommendations of the parliamentary committee on foreign interference. we're a target, we need to realize that. this calls for a coordinated european approach and also a genuine committee of inquiry. ladies and gentlemen, interventions must be based on vision, on conviction, and not on money in your bank account. let this be a turning point.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! today, garcía pérez speaks about defending the honour of the socialists and democrats after the arrest of an influential s&d member. for years, it was the s&d that brutally trampled on the honor and dignity of poland, without regard for the facts and circumstances. so today many people in poland are asking, were these unjustified attacks on poland sponsored? the corruption scandal in the european parliament exposes hypocrisy and double standards which cannot be tolerated. it is also revealing double standards in the commission, and the european commission must finally address this problem. it is therefore necessary to set up a committee composed of representatives of the member states to examine the functioning of the union institutions. it is necessary to pay particular attention to cases of high-level lobbying and corruption not only by qatar but also by russia. in cases such as the nord stream gas pipeline or climate policy, it is necessary to increase member states' control over the eu institutions.
mr president, madam commissioner, a million and a half euros recovered and many offices searched, sealed up, in this parliament is probably the tip of the iceberg. the problem is structural. i remember that whenever we proposed to reduce the income of members of parliament, you replied: 'no, members of parliament must be paid, otherwise they will be corrupted.' you've been singing that to me for years, and clearly, it hasn't worked. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. but it is also a serious matter that members of parliament are legally influenced by lobbies, multinationals, revolving doors and board seats. the problem is that it is a problem of money culture. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the council of ministers is not a political body. most people prefer to flirt with the bourgeoisie and live like ordinary people. it is high time that politicians learn to serve the people instead of their own interests of multinationals.
president. - mr president, i am as shocked as you are by the events. at the same time, i am happy that we have a high-performing police force and an independent judiciary. and we certainly need to tighten up our own rules on transparency and accountability. but i would like to warn against an interinstitutional ethics body, a body made up of third parties - even if they are independent - that would monitor our compliance with our rules. we must not allow ourselves to be co-controlled by a body that has been co-appointed by the executive. a parliament that respects itself controls the executive, not the other way around. we must instead work to strengthen our own committee which enforces our own code of conduct.
mr president, dear colleagues, this weekend, a 16—year—old girl was sitting at home in jenin, palestine. when she heard people scream outside, she went to the roof to see what was going on. and on the rooftop of her own house an israeli soldier shot and killed her; two bullets to the face, one to the neck, one to the shoulder. jana zakarneh, an innocent child, another one killed. this year, israeli forces have assassinated several tens of palestinian children, continue to destroy palestinian schools and homes, and steal, occupy ever more land. but what does the european union do? nothing! worse, it intensifies relations with israel. you speak of human rights, but you let israel kill with impunity. that hypocrisy disgusts me!
i have listened to you very carefully. i also read your opinion yesterday in the flemish newspaper de tijd, among others. good luck with the task force that's been formed. i hope that you will really succeed in eliminating discrimination against european companies. but we do have european homework. agreed state aid to the extent that it is aimed at innovation, renewable energy, excellence or market failure. but your temporary crisis framework is creating very big problems, it's upsetting the level playing field. in the same newspaper, de tijd, you can read the cry of distress from large flemish companies, such as unilin, kronos, aluminium duffel. they cannot compete with large companies from large member states which enjoy massive state aid and are threatened with closure. trust in the eu is thus diminished. fix it quickly.
in writing. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to stop being so naive about the united states of america, which you generally trust blindly. because at a time when war is raging on the european continent, the united states not only takes advantage of this to sell us their lng cargoes at absolutely ridiculous prices, with up to $200 million in profits per cargo, but in addition... they pass a law that clearly aims to weaken the european economy. this is not the behavior of a true ally. so what do we do? liberal solutions are "has been". they're out of date. who still thinks that by flooding the private sector with money, we're going to get away with it? faced with the failure of european liberalisation, which has failed to guarantee low energy prices, failed to guarantee the social climate transition, failed to guarantee employment, it is time to change the rules of the game, to ensure that the profit of the big multinationals is no longer the guiding principle of european political decisions. let's accept that some sectors are too important to be left in the hands of the market. let us publicly take up strategic sectors such as energy, transport, pharmaceuticals, digital, etc. let's switch.
the reason for inflation and falling purchasing power is the skyrocketing price of energy. this is the case, for example, in france, where nuclear power plants are being divested, whereas that country used to obtain 75% of its electricity from nuclear energy. in france, where nuclear power once accounted for three quarters of the country's electricity supply, there are even warnings of power cuts. or even more stupidly, in belgium, where the governments - including the n-va - have consistently confirmed the nuclear phase-out, so that we now have to burn expensive gas to replace the cheap electricity from our nuclear power stations. how crazy can you think of it. moreover, it will mean that we will soon have too little gas to supply our homes and our industry. of course the other parties here claim that the war in ukraine is the cause, but to my knowledge the russians have not decided on the nuclear step. you did. the result of all this is that we now have to beg for expensive lpg in qatar from the friends of the socialists. - that's great.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the economist - your magazine, the liberal and capitalist magazine of the european union and europe, which you all read - has calculated that up to 185 000 more people could die of cold this winter, not only because of the cold but also because of your inaction. your inaction on the energy price freeze: we have been asking for a gas price freeze for a year. how do you expect people to trust the european union, if they have to wait a year and potentially die at home because they can't pay the bill? your inaction on the excess profits of multinationals: ah, taxing your friends multinationals, it's always too complicated, even when they make excess profits and even when people can't get along anymore. but aren't you ashamed to let this happen? don't be surprised when people take to the streets, strike and mobilize to put you in front of your responsibilities. because that's what you have to do today, put pressure on yourself, otherwise you'll never listen.
for the greens/efa group mr president, reporters without borders denounces the bleak daily life of many journalists in europe: physical attacks, freedom-threatening laws, harassment, intimidation, censorship, lack of pluralism and independence, concentration of the media and surveillance. press freedom is under threat in 22 of the 27 member states, according to the european commission. these are threats to the freedom of the press and its work, which provoke intolerable forms of self-censorship, while journalists often denounce corruption, violations of the rule of law and injustices committed by the powerful and european leaders. daphne caruana galizia in malta, ján kuciak in slovakia, giórgos karaïváz in greece, peter de vries in the netherlands: these investigative reporters died for their work, murdered on european soil. others, who have revealed the illegal use of spyware such as pegasus by our governments and secret services, often against themselves, are now being prosecuted and intimidated in our states. julian assange, who was a finalist for the european parliament's sakharov prize, is currently facing 175 years in prison in the us for his work as a whistleblower. what happened to the sacred freedom of the press? the media, along with the judiciary, are vital counter-powers to our democracies and our rule of law. the qatargate scandal, which is shaking our institution, is a reminder that some people are allowing themselves to be corrupted at the expense of democracy and that foreign interference in european affairs is also aimed at undermining our democracies. this scandal was revealed by the existence of counter-powers. in the face of an increasingly muzzled press, we will not remain silent, and we recall the teaching of montesquieu: 'in order to prevent abuse of power, power must stop power by the order of things.' let us protect journalists, let us protect what is most precious to our democracies, and let us punish those who allow themselves to spy on these counter-powers, and those who prevent a free and independent press from functioning!
the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given the right to take action in the fight against terrorism. corruption, for example. daphne caruana galizia was killed in malta by a bomb planted in her car. because of crime. dutch crime reporter peter r. de vries was shot dead on the streets of amsterdam. because of islamism and too much tolerance for intolerance. the cartoonists of charlie hebdo were killed in one fell swoop at their editorial meeting in paris. more and more journalists are being forced to go into hiding when they write a piece about islam. it starts with censorship, intimidation and threats, and often ends with violence or even murder. but the threat to our rule of law is not just from outside. it also comes from within and is tempted, for example, to stop thinking, to let prejudice and the pensée unique take over. journalists must face the facts and never allow themselves to be dominated by militancy. otherwise it becomes activism and it's not journalism anymore. then our fellow citizens will increasingly distrust and turn away from the traditional media and become more susceptible to disinformation and populism. that, too, undermines our rule of law. the press must therefore urgently be self-critical in order to reconnect with our fellow citizens. no cancellation culture, no wokism, no self-censorship out of fear, but freedom. the duty to inform. freedom of thought. that was the motto of the newspaper of my mentor, investigative journalist norbert zongo, who was brutally murdered in burkina faso in 1998 for reporting on corruption. i still feel anger and sadness when i think about it, but i'm also proud of him. he was the one and only fourth pillar of a dying democracy. without a free press, there is no democracy. we need not only the separation of powers, which montesquieu spoke of, but also the strength of the fourth power. this fourth power: a critical and independent press.
