mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great regret that the new year has not started well in kazakhstan. we have witnessed peaceful protests that in an extremely short time have turned into scenes of violence. i have been following the events closely and first of all i would like to express my solidarity with the citizens and my sincere condolences to the families and loved ones of all the victims. i believe in the right of citizens to peacefully protest as a form of expression. at the same time, however, it's important to distinguish between peaceful protesters and those who were there to provoke violence and disorder. i would like to emphasize, on the other hand, that the state has the right and the duty to maintain peace, but the force used must always be proportionate. i am convinced that there is a need for a thorough and transparent investigation of these events. priorities and efforts should now be directed towards respecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, making progress on the announced reforms and ensuring stability in the country and the region. it's too early to draw any conclusions. i sincerely hope that the demands of peaceful protesters for economic and political change have been heard. the european union must continue to support kazakhstan on its path to democracy.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you on your debut in this position and i wish you all the best. commissioner, dear colleagues, for decades, the ruling elites in kazakhstan have been used to winning elections for with nearly 100% of the votes, but never felt safe facing people’s anger. political instruments like leader of the nation gave them access to unlimited personal wealth and the influence of privileged groups, but were largely based on the fierce persecution and intimidation of political opponents. the unsustainable political system alone was unresolved and deepening social economic problems typical of the soviet legacy is an optimal scenario for the influence and intervention of russia, a kind of gendarmerie of the continent. independent investigation, access to impartial legal defence and deep political reforms, not foreign intervention forces, is a genuine way forward for kazakhstan. the european union must review and strengthen its political conditionality vis-à-vis kazakhstan.
mr president, kazakhstan is a country on a geopolitical tightrope. the russian federation and china on the one hand, the west on the other. after the end of the cold war, kazakhstan inherited the world’s fourth-largest nuclear weapons arsenal. it denuclearised and is now mainly reliant on russia for its security. on the other hand, the eu has grown to become kazakhstan’s largest trading partner, and it is one of our major energy suppliers. may kazakhstan be a lesson: a strong hike in energy prices fuels protests against the government, and we need to think strategically and look out for the interests of the eu and its citizens. an extra hike in energy prices is something our citizens cannot afford. as the eu, we need to benefit from a stable and reliable kazakhstan. in that respect, sanctions or meddling in the domestic affairs of kazakhstan will only come back to haunt us.
mr president, the unprecedented protests in kazakhstan at the beginning of the year saw some of the deadliest violence in the country’s post-soviet history. sparked by an almost 90% jump in car fuel prices in the oil-rich west of the country, protests spread with surprising speed as citizens across the country rose against the regime simultaneously. during clashes, security forces received orders to shoot live ammunition and, declaring a state of emergency, the president called for help from a russian—led military bloc. since last i spoke on the harsh restrictions imposed on the rights to peaceful assembly in kazakhstan almost a year ago, little has changed for the better. the violent unrest that began with peaceful protests has left an estimated 225 people dead. shocking. arrests of activists continue and the regime appears determined to crush this movement. the crimes against civil society and human rights in kazakhstan demand a firm response from the eu. it is time to impose personal sanctions against leaders involved in the violent suppression of peaceful demonstrations. the eu, together with the international community, must immediately initiate a proper investigation into the crimes committed and the disappearance of citizens during the two weeks of rallies. we must demand that the kazakh authorities release all political prisoners and completely withdraw foreign troops. since the country’s independence in 1991, kazakhstan has been an important partner to the eu. it would be nice if it were possible for this to continue for the benefit of the lovely kazakhstan people.
mr president, i would like to pass on my congratulations to madam commissioner. the european parliament always stands for democratic values. we cannot ignore the tragic events that took place in kazakhstan earlier this month. kazakhstan is a strategic partner in central asia, and we have always welcomed positive developments in this country. but, at the same time, we act rightly to any violations of human rights there. and yes, innocent citizens protested for a better social economic life. but why these protests quickly spread violence, anarchy, that led to military intervention by a third country, killing dozens and violating human and fundamental rights, is a question that should be raised. therefore, i do believe that we must give kazakhstan time to explain to us the reasons for the terrible tragedy and how the country plans to further implement its own promises. kazakhstan should carefully examine every fact and launch a full—scale and transparent investigation into the events.
mr president, it will take a lot of time to investigate deeply the events of january 2022 in kazakhstan but, nevertheless, our parliament has once more assumed the role of judge. i have several questions in connection with the proposed resolution. when urging the kazakhstan authorities to refrain from applying charges of terrorism too broadly, is our parliament not applying too broadly such definitions as ‘activist’ or ‘religious organisation’? do we properly distinguish between peaceful protesters and those who used violence and committed crimes? why, when saying that a number of international journalists’ offices came under attack by the state forces, did we turn a blind eye to the effects of the burning down of the buildings of major kazakh tv channels and the international channel mir by armed groups of well-trained men? are we not selective when mentioning the names of several political prisoners, but forgetting cases no less famous? as a member of the central asia region parliamentary cooperation committees (pcc) and a former vice—chair of this delegation, i ask for respectful dialogue with kazakhstan.
mr. chairman, over the past 30 years, kazakhstan has experienced a transition from a socialist to a neoliberal economy, which has resulted in a huge concentration of wealth in the hands of a handful of people. the lost took to the streets and today we mourn the innocent victims. the protests that erupted earlier this year were the result of this injustice - a fact that the authorities in nursultan have officially acknowledged. but the rapid escalation of peaceful protests into violence and vandalism speaks to the backroom interests that parasitize on righteous anger, including radical salafist elements. in the case of kazakhstan, the european union must not make the mistake it made in syria. we must not rush to a decision on a social conflict that risks political and even religious radicalisation. i hope that the special government commission charged with investigating the tragic events will provide convincing facts that will allow us to formulate our principled position in the interest of our future relations with kazakhstan and its friendly people.
madam president, vice-president jourová, french presidency, human rights either have an effective guarantee or they have no guarantee at all: to affirm such a simple truth, it is not necessary to be a jurist, it is enough to have the commitment shown time and again by the majority of this european parliament, which represents european citizens, in the understanding that human rights include the rights of women to sexual and reproductive health because they are fundamental rights linked to personal dignity, linked to freedom of expression, to the free development of a life project and of personality, as well as to privacy and intimacy. how many times must we say in this european parliament that an advance in fundamental rights does not protect only those who can enjoy them in the flesh, just as a retreat in rights and freedoms does not affect only those who suffer that retreat in the flesh? a step forward in rights and freedoms makes us all more dignified, more decent, better, made up of men and women standing on equal footing in dignity and freedom, just as a step backward in women's rights and freedoms makes us all worse off. and that is why this european parliament has repeatedly expressed its concern about the retrogression of rights and freedoms in democratic societies: no one is safe, either in texas (united states), from the offensive in the supreme court, or, of course, in the european union, where there are states which do not recognize the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy, states which cause this retrogression. president macron, speaking on behalf of the french presidency, said yesterday that the right to free termination of pregnancy should be incorporated into the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and the president of the socialists replied to him on the spot that it would be enough for the council to monitor the states which are causing these setbacks under article 7, but this european parliament will continue to fight so that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are effectively guaranteed.
madam chairman, first of all, i want to point out that i hate the word "reproductive". it may be medically correct, but there's something extremely contemptuous about it. it completely dehumanizes the act of creating a unique life. we do not make copies, we create originals, colleagues. i think it is very significant that such a dictionary is becoming more and more widely used, especially in our parliament. we deliberately take away the positive in conceiving, giving birth and raising our children. we talk about the process as factory, we depersonalize it, and in doing so, we alienate even more people from it. why would young people want to have children when they're told that it's a mechanical reproductive process, that it's better to live your life and not have to deal with a family. this is one of the main reasons for the aging of our continent's population. children are not produced in a factory or on a conveyor belt. they are created and raised by a family, by a mother and a father, by colleagues. it's a sacred building block of society, it's not just a combination of individual rights, just some simple collection, it's a pretty complex concept of rights and obligations and a lot of love. the european union has obviously completely forgotten the simple truth i just said, but we will not stop repeating it to you and defending traditional christian family values. they are the foundation of our civilization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking the commission today how the european union can strengthen the role of young people in the wake of the pandemic, but we already know the answer: we must break the situation of precariousness, exploitation and social exclusion which affects too many of them in a structural way. i would remind you that this parliament has already voted in favour of banning unpaid traineeships and apprenticeships, an initiative which was supported by our dear president sassoli, as also mentioned in the chamber last monday by the secretary of my party, mr enrico letta. a new legal instrument is needed to ensure fair remuneration for trainees, apprentices and apprentices in the eu labour market. an ambitious directive on the work of platforms, which affects some 30 million workers, mainly young people, is needed to put an end to the great lie that is always trying to classify them as self-employed. we must fight for the new minimum wage directive and we must introduce adequate safeguards for all contracts. with nextgenerationeu, we really need to invest in the future of young people, because young people need to be not only the future but the present of our union.
mr. chairman, i'm glad we finally acknowledged that we don't make decisions with young people, but for them. all too often, young people are offered a few months of unpaid internship with the promise of permanent employment. but eventually they get fired. i understand if it was a question of competence, but i think they're just using them. maybe it's the incompetent interviewers who keep hiring new interns, who then get fired again. i think these are the people who should be fired. this is extremely unfair, as many people cannot afford it. even in feudal times, the master gave his apprentice food and a bed. our standards are probably lower. don't you think it's absurd to try to achieve the feudal achievements of a few centuries ago? we just came back hundreds of years ago with these ideas.
in writing. i will be happy to support the questions and the resolution because the statistics clearly show that the pandemic has had a particularly negative impact on young people in terms of their social status. we have seen their employment levels fall and their opportunities for personal development diminish or be suspended. the pandemic has also affected their mental health and changed their lifestyles. i truly believe that we must and can overcome the negative impact of the coronavirus on young people. we cannot allow them to still miss out on training and job opportunities that are crucial to their career development and social inclusion. the funding provided within the union should be used to the full and optimum extent so as to eradicate child and youth poverty. member states should ensure that the youth and child guarantee funds are spent on skills promotion, quality education and training, and the integration of young people into the labour market. the d.o.d. has always been supportive and extended a hand to the young. our priority is to encourage young people to get involved and to provide more opportunities for development. we will continue to promote policies to invest in young people, measures to tackle youth unemployment and the creation of enabling conditions for their advancement. our children and youth deserve it!
in writing. europe has some of the highest standards in food production, and in particular animal welfare criteria. yes, i think there is room for further improvement in farming practices, but it should not be at the expense of farmers alone. investments in improving animal welfare lead to higher production costs for farmers. those costs should not be borne solely by the manufacturers. the commission and the member states should provide for an appropriate financial framework to support livestock farmers in this respect, both within and outside the cap. a comprehensive approach is needed, providing for a wide range of measures and instruments. this process can also be significantly helped by the introduction of smart technologies in agriculture. - updating existing legislation to integrate scientific advances in animal knowledge and technical progress in agricultural practices; - a well-functioning regulatory framework that is proportionate and does not jeopardise the competitiveness of european farmers; - an impact assessment of the proposed changes based on current scientific research and an assessment of how animals, the environment and farmers, especially smallholders, will be affected; - any change must take into account the time, support and funding required by farmers to implement it.
madam president, commissioner, energy prices have been the main contributor to the increase in inflation in recent months. the most serious problem is that once again the most vulnerable citizens will bear the brunt of the crisis. they expect us to make quick decisions, not ideological arguments. to solve this problem, we need to offer strong and unified pan-european positions when negotiating long-term supplies of energy raw materials from third countries. we also need the development of proven technologies like nuclear power. the delegated act on taxonomy presented by the european commission is a step in the right direction. we need practical and workable solutions to prevent us from falling into similar energy and price crises.
madam president, madam commissioner, i join peter liese in saying that for each of us, our words this morning echo in the memory of those who have gone too soon, of someone who is no longer here or of someone who is fighting cancer on foot, and there are more and more of them. the reason, of course, is our ever-increasing life expectancy and the combination of external factors to which we are exposed: tobacco, alcohol, sedentary lifestyles and, of course, all the pollution. every day in belgium, 200 people are diagnosed. europe has a duty to respond. prevention is the cardinal axis, it has been stressed. screening, treatment and quality of life for cured patients and their families: the european plan against cancer is fighting back on all fronts. vulnerable among the vulnerable, i want, in my short minute this morning, to highlight the patients with rare cancers - not so rare in fact: one in four diagnosed in europe, especially children - for whom we think very strongly. our report - i want to thank our rapporteur, mrs renew, véronique trillet-lenoir - is a wealth of proposals to ensure that they are not forgotten. you should take this seriously, commissioner, because - and i conclude - to paraphrase amanda, a belgian patient, only the european scale can make visible those who are isolated by the rarity of their disease. the fight of those who fight cancer is our fight.
madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done on this subject for over a year. that's a good line. cancer has truly become a scourge of modern society. every european has a relative or acquaintance who has been stricken by some form of cancer. but if universal experiences bring us together, then this report should have the ability to bring us together. i therefore hope that we can vote in favour of it, although i have some reservations about setting unrealistic standards of quality and control. my colleagues dreosto and baldassare were absolutely right about alcohol. and yet, the contradictory elements in the text should not, in my opinion, overshadow the message we are sending, which is that cancer is already the number one enemy. we must not leave behind anyone who is suffering: neither the young nor the elderly, nor the poor nor those living in hard-to-reach or remote areas of the european union. let's not just be politicians for once, but normal human beings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of restrictions on social and social life, as well as on work and study, have affected the well-being of young people, putting them at greater risk of disorientation, precariousness and unemployment. maintaining a dialogue with young europeans, understanding their concerns and aspirations, or even supporting education, training and employment projects will be key to overcoming the pandemic crisis and tackling the changes and challenges facing europe. the process of european integration and the creation of a greener, more digital and more inclusive europe will then be able to count on the commitment and participation of young people if we are able to meet their expectations and if we are able to give them new opportunities, without leaving behind the most vulnerable and marginalised. the establishment of the european year of youth should be an opportunity to give priority to youth issues in all sectoral policies and to promote the participation of young people in the democratic and decision-making process. let us make sure that young people are the protagonists in shaping their future and that of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is about young people and europe, and i think that young people should be the ones to speak and we should listen to them. i know from experience that young people take the european union for granted. and it's the right thing to do. but i am of the older generation, and when i was 18, i lived behind the iron curtain and i only dreamed of the european union. it is precisely these days that young people can see this in the example of beaten and thrown out students in belarus or in the example of ukraine threatened by russian aggression. in short, living in a safe, prosperous and free european union is not a given, and if the younger generation wants to keep it in the future, it will be up to them to do so. we are aware of the importance of the younger generation understanding this historical development and the values that make up the european union. in the last two years, it was the younger generation that felt the crisis of the pandemic firsthand, but also felt the solidarity of europe, because together we were able to overcome this crisis and move forward. of course they care about the quality of education, the experience, and we also know that more than 90 percent of young people want to address climate change. i therefore expect that the european youth year will encourage young people to get more involved, to seize opportunities, and that the french and czech presidencies will also give this opportunity. for example, we should know from young people how they want to get involved in the civil service as proposed by the french presidency. i think it's a good activity that could expand the european solidarity corps. but i would like to see young people respond to that first. let us not do anything without first asking them that question. let us listen to them, that is the best aim we can have for this european youth year. thank you, sir.
mr president, the question is: do you want to be paid at the end of the month with a book voucher? the answer, of course, is that nobody wants to. you just have to get paid for the work. it is still too often that trainees are employed as permanent employees without being rewarded or paid so little that in the end only young people with money or with rich parents can put an internship on their cv. it is clear that trainees should be paid for their work, so that internships are accessible to everyone, regardless of the size of the wallet. after all, experience alone can't pay the bills. let's just call the beast by its name: unpaid traineeships are a form of labour exploitation and a violation of the rights of young people. a ban is the only way to improve the employment situation of young people. it is high time to break the vicious circle of unpaid internships, precarious work and youth unemployment.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i have come to talk to you about the most ethical and profitable investment: education. it is not i who say this, but the nobel prize winner in economics, joseph stiglitz, who honoured us with his presence at the interministerial conference hosted yesterday by the french presidency of the council of the european union. yes, education is a strategic issue, and let me mention two imperatives. this investment must be carefully targeted and evaluated. thank you to commissioner mariya gabriel for announcing yesterday the creation of a european laboratory to guide and evaluate investment in education. we collectively asked the renew initiative to do so in the context of the european education area; you did. secondly, this investment must reach the young people who live farthest from europe. the ambition of a european civic service is not aimed at anything else and will only achieve its objective if we create a benchmark for the recognition of psychosocial skills acquired during mobility or solidarity engagement. this is also the whole idea behind the single platform for youth, which renew europe is carrying out. if so, let us not be mistaken: communication is a political issue.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. imagine this for a moment. you just turned 18, but your party got canceled. the first festival you've been looking forward to for so long, canceled. exchange, year abroad, exploring the world, all canceled. and then you start studying now, and all you see is the other guys on zoom calls. it's a bit of a dystopia, isn't it? the youth have shown such solidarity during the pandemic. and that's why we have to make a promise that they can make up for all that they've had to give up. we must restore the freedom and the space that were given to you as a matter of course in your youth. and that is why i ask you all to be actively involved at all levels in exchanges, festivals, social spaces, meeting places and a european year of youth that deserves its name. and of course for climate action, because it's the young people who benefit the most.
mr president, we have already been discussing youth in several successive plenary sessions. the issue is of paramount importance because not enough is being done to support young people. but when i hear the expression "a young person", do i understand that it refers to those youth organisations from the totalitarian regimes of the last century? it was where all the children were brought together and where they were taught the ideology of a unified territory and a political order. is this the way we're going? our youth is not the same. it is as diverse as the 27 member states of the european union. it's about support that should be the same for all young people. that's all i know. there is an awful lot of money and energy being spent trying to create a european identity, but that, in my view, is doomed to failure. they don't want totalitarian federalism, they want opportunities to create and work. and i'm convinced that their dream is not to destroy their individuality and national identity.
madam chairman, youth is a symbol of great plans and dreams for the future. the european union's policies must contribute to achieving results in areas such as quality and modern education, economic activity, entrepreneurship, the labour market and sport. the union funding should be fully used to provide sufficient opportunities for the development of young people, especially in the green and digital transition. in bulgaria, we, the movement for rights and freedoms, have always supported and extended a hand to the young. we will continue to work to promote policies that invest in young people, in measures to tackle youth unemployment and in creating favourable conditions for their development. our children and youth deserve it. kids, this is your year. you're the lead. be proactive about your future. let us renew europe together.
the next item is the commission communication on a harmonised approach by the european union to travel arrangements (2022/2537 ((rsp)). i would remind members that there will be no open microphone procedures or blue cards accepted in any of the debates in this session. as in previous sessions, it is also planned to organise remote speeches from parliament's local offices in the member states. i would also like to remind you that the courtroom will continue to be the central stand. so i encourage you to follow the list of speakers and go to the central stand when your time to speak approaches.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, welcome back, and welcome to the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to this debate on the need for a european approach to travel measures during the covid-19 pandemic. as you know, this pandemic has caused exceptional disruption and has forced us to accept temporary limitations on our freedoms in the public interest. we accepted these limitations knowing that they were necessary to protect the most vulnerable among us and the sustainability of our health systems. since the start of the pandemic, the commission has been working with member states to ensure that, through better coordination, we can limit the impact of travel restrictions within the european union. the adoption of the european digital covid certificate by your parliament and the council in june last year, on a proposal from the commission, was one of the important steps in this effort. the european certificate has demonstrated that the union can bring concrete benefits to citizens in record time. it has facilitated the travel of european citizens during the pandemic by providing them with a reliable document recognised throughout the union. we have been keen to ensure that the certificate is free and easily accessible to citizens, and that data protection is an integral part of the system in place. we have also made sure that this mechanism is temporary. the figures show the success of the certificate: in just over seven months since its introduction, member states have issued nearly 1.3 billion certificates, and many third countries are gradually connecting to the european system, the only one that is operational at international level. we have 35 third countries already connected, and we are currently assessing applications from 22 other countries. today, it is difficult to imagine an alternative scenario, which would have been very likely without the european certificate: 27 potentially incompatible national systems, or a system run by foreign technology companies that collect and use citizens' health data. all of this would not meet our expectations. on 3 february the commission therefore proposed to extend the eu certificate by one year. the reason is simple: we cannot predict how the pandemic will evolve. therefore, we cannot predict when member states will have lifted all travel restrictions, such as requesting proof of vaccination or a negative test. if we were to dismantle the system now, it would not be available to eu citizens to travel within the union during the summer and in the second half of this year. the citizens would not be able to rely on the certificates should they still face travel restrictions from member states. and they would rightly wonder why we prematurely ended a system that works and that everyone is now familiar with. however, this extension of our system of the eu certificate should not be confused with the issue of maintaining travel restrictions. i want to be clear that the regulation on the eu certificate never obliges member states to impose any travel restrictions. the commission strongly supports member states' decisions to lift such restrictions wherever possible. extending the regulation does not prevent them at all from doing so. the commission's line has been clear since the beginning: as soon as free movement restrictions are no longer necessary and proportionate, member states should lift them. some member states may consider it necessary to maintain certain restrictions for reasons of public health. we will continue to push them to implement the approach agreed upon in a recent revision of the council recommendation on free movement. the basic idea is that with a valid eu certificate, i should be able to travel without additional restrictions in the entire european union. at the same time, the commission has not proposed to include in the eu digital covid certificate regulation detailed rules on travel restrictions and a legally binding framework relating to restrictions in eu law could even be counterproductive. in fact, it would be very difficult to adapt it in the light of new developments and differing situations in the member states. but, as i said, be sure that the commission is monitoring the situation closely and that we are maintaining a certain level of coordination, notably thanks to the council recommendation. turning back to our legislative proposal, the extension of the certificate by one year is at its core. apart from that, the commission is proposing very few improvements to this system. first, we propose that member states could issue test certificates also for lab-based antigen tests. this would increase the types of test that can be used for the issuance of eu certificates. second, we propose a specific provision for participants in clinical trials. the fact that we can all benefit from safe and effective vaccines is in large part due to the willingness of volunteers to take part in such trials. they should be able to receive an eu certificate. we cannot risk discouraging volunteers from participating in clinical trials. of course, our approach needs to ensure the scientific integrity of the trials. the decision to extend the eu certificate is now in the hands of the parliament and the council. i'm looking forward to continuing our excellent cooperation on this file. let me also say a few words about the domestic use of the certificate. as the commission has said from the beginning, the decision on whether and how to use the eu certificate at the domestic level is a public-health decision of each member state. when taking such decisions, national authorities need to take into account different elements and the use of covid certificates must fit the health policies of the member states. a one-size-fits-all approach at eu level would be unrealistic and most likely again, even counterproductive. i doubt that those who disagree with the way the certificate is used in the member states would want this to be decided at eu level, and banning the use of the eu certificate for domestic purposes would only lead to separate systems of national certificates to the detriment of eu citizens travelling within the union. this is not to say that the commission is unaware of the practical difficulties faced by some travellers during the pandemic. lately, we have seen member states adopt different validity periods for covid certificates, in particular in response to scientific evidence about the waning protection of the primary vaccination series. to ensure a coordinated approach in the context of travel, the commission has swiftly adopted a delegated act, establishing a uniform acceptance period. this delegated act entered into force on 1 february. we have also called on member states to align their domestic validity periods accordingly, but we are not competent to oblige them to do so as regards the domestic use of the certificate. the commission is also working on other improvements to the eu system. we plan to adopt a delegated act allowing member states to issue recovery certificates based on high-quality rapid antigen tests. we intend to do so and to do this swiftly. we need to make it easier for citizens who test positive during the omicron wave to receive a recovery certificate. this objective to act quickly is the reason why we did not include this aspect in all legislative proposals to extend the regulation. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the waves of the delta and omicron variants, we have been through one of the most intense periods of the pandemic. this has inevitably had an impact on the exercise of free movement. rest assured that the commission will continue its efforts to support the coordination of measures taken by the member states. if necessary, we will propose further amendments to the relevant recommendations. our objective has always been and will always be the same: a return to unrestricted free movement as soon as possible. while i am proud of what we have achieved with the european certificate, i look forward to the day when it will no longer be necessary to travel, because it will mean that we have finally overcome the pandemic. i thank you and i am of course listening to your comments, remarks and proposals.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, many have considered this debate to be untimely. why discuss this coordination of travel now when several member states have already declared the end of the restrictions? the fact is that the free movement of citizens within the european area and the disparity of measures around travel and tourism are still the rule and not the exception. in december, the commission set the validity of the european certificate at nine months for circulation, excluding the booster dose, but left it to the member states to decide on its validity and purpose for national use. in practice, a citizen can travel to italy with the vaccination certificate, with two doses, but cannot go to a restaurant, a pharmacy, or catch a train without taking a pcr or rapid test. and i could list here other discrepancies in different member states. how is it possible, two years after the pandemic was declared, this lack of coordination? no european citizen can understand that. then they are surprised when we hear that the european institutions are far from reality. the commission is wrong not to set the validity of the certificate for travel or national use at nine months for all. shouldn't we be instilling clarity and confidence in the traveler? the council also fails: on the one hand it adopts recommendations, but the member states do not then implement them. examples: the application of measures to the passenger and not to the epidemiological situation in the country of origin is only applied in some member states. others make a clean sweep of the recommendations they have approved. and vaccinated people are required to undergo testing and, in the case of third countries, quarantine. it's hard to understand these criteria. this dis-coordination and zigzagging, sometimes without scientific basis, is the worst enemy of the restoration of confidence and creates uncertainty for those who travel. they harm the tourism and travel sector and they harm citizens. parliament stressed once again the urgency of such coordination. without this, the recovery of tourist destinations will take even longer. and let us not forget, finally, that the union needs international travellers. if the multiplicity of rules is already a constraint for a european, it becomes even more complex for someone outside europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, even though we have been living in a pandemic for two years, the uncertainties are still high. we are seeing almost continuous changes in travel restrictions, and the nature of the pandemic is that by the time travel bans are introduced, the virus has already spread and the impact of the restrictions is minimal, and the economic and social cost is too high. the commission and the member states should endeavour to fully harmonise the rules on the european digital certificate, in particular as regards its validity and the removal of additional barriers for travellers. additional uncertainty and chaos is caused by the national measures that a number of countries have taken with regard to access to restaurants, cultural sites and others, such as the fact that the rules for the validity of these certificates vary drastically between member states. you can have a certificate that is valid for going to a theater in france, but you can't go to a restaurant in bulgaria with it. chaos and different rules are not just an annoying obstacle to tourism, and the cost is not just measured in lost money from airlines or restaurants. this is a huge image problem for the european union and for the free movement between member states, which is one of the greatest achievements of the european union. the lack of harmonisation of measures has been successfully used to undermine confidence in the european institutions and in the european project as a whole. if the commission and the council are serious and responsible in their work, they must take urgent action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the green pass and the vaccines are working and thanks to them we are now seeing the end of the pandemic. the omicron variant has caused many infections, but with little or no consequences for those who have been vaccinated. the return to normalcy is therefore not just the aspiration of everyone but a political duty, and this requires first of all the restoration of full freedom of movement, one of the key principles of our union. passenger locator forms, additional stamps, quarantine of returnees from third countries are measures which played an important role in the acute phase of the pandemic, but which today represent only an unnecessary obstacle to economic recovery. the winter tourist season is in full swing, the summer is upon us, and it is time to lift the restrictions and learn to live with the virus. but let me be clear: getting back to normal also means distinguishing between those who have done their duty and vaccinated themselves, and those who still deny the scientific evidence and choose to put their own health and the health of the community at risk.
mr president, commissioner, now that the coronavirus pandemic has lasted two years, it is worthwhile to assess where the european union has succeeded and where we need to improve for the future, because it is unfortunately quite clear that this pandemic will certainly not be the last. there's been a lot of vaccine talk here today. the european union invested heavily in vaccines and drug research from the very beginning, which has been very important in reducing serious illnesses and deaths. in addition, large joint procurements on behalf of member states also helped smaller member states to get vaccines immediately available. the second major success has been, in my view, the creation of a single certificate for the euro, which is technically very efficient. this is evidenced by the fact that over 60 countries have already adopted the certificate. the point that has been missed here has been made in previous speeches. the use of the certificate has varied considerably between member states and the rules have been constantly changing. the certificate itself has facilitated travel and helped many member states to keep services open and to organise events safely, but the ever-changing rules have made this very difficult to predict for citizens, and as we have a single market and a single european union, we need to make sure that member states coordinate their actions together and that our common rules work across the whole of the internal market. only then can we operate effectively and safely in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the patchwork of border controls and border closures in the pandemic is now approaching its second anniversary. are the member states still looking for a coordinated approach? uniform rules would be particularly easy right now, because the eu corona map currently shows only one color: dark red. and this map is to be the basis for coordinated actions from october 2020. but it is not, even today, despite the uniform coloring. the first attempts to establish binding rules for travel during pandemic times in the schengen borders code are therefore generally welcomed. unfortunately, too much thought is wasted on how to extend border closures in order to mitigate their impact on trade by way of exceptions. let us not forget that the free movement of persons in the schengen area was first and foremost for citizens, for everyday encounters, especially in small border traffic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a daily, borderless, european community of people - that must continue to be our ambition.
mr president, well, every time you travel nowadays in europe, be it for skiing in austria or carnival in germany, you need to read numerous websites. do i need two vaccine shots or three? do i need a test for my children? currently, we have a patchwork of different national measures, which change all the time. it is impossible for anyone travelling in europe to follow what the rules are. therefore, my suggestion today is very simple. please create a simple and user—friendly application. learn from the weakness of the reopen europe site, which is not up to date and honestly, people do not know it even exists. since we will not have harmonised covid rules in the foreseeable future, we can at least have an information app that works for our citizens, and i ask the commission to act.
mr president, commissioner, dear didier reynders, almost two years after the pandemic and the disorderly closure of the internal borders of the schengen area, europe has learned and grown. firstly, because the european covid certificate is an undeniable success, a symbol of a concrete and useful europe. it is our main tool for ensuring free movement within the union. i want to bear witness to this here in strasbourg, on the edge of germany, as in all the border regions. secondly, because the commission is committed to and is working to frame national measures towards a more harmonised approach. i would like to emphasise two priorities which i believe are fundamental to making life easier for europeans, as my colleague dita charanzová has said. first, the upgrading of the certificate for the third dose. this is important, and i regret that some states continue to impose additional conditions on entry. then there is the issue of communication to citizens: the re-open eu app is not bad, it provides information; but we could, for example, link it to the european covid certificate to simplify access to information on a single platform. i am happy with this european achievement, but we must take it further, commissioner.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must first confirm what i said when we started the first debate on the certificate: this certificate is very useful in facilitating free movement not only in the european union but also - as i said earlier - in 35 third countries, with which we have seen that we can really work with the same kind of tool. if we have now set a rule on the period of validity for vaccination - the two hundred and seventy days - it is a rule that concerns, again, free movement, and we ask all the member states to respect this rule, i say it well, for free movement - i will return to national decisions concerning other types of activity. i think it is really important today to remind you that we need to extend the validity of this certificate regulation until next year, simply because as long as there are requirements for vaccination, testing or recovery from disease across the european union or in third countries, the certificate will continue to make life easier for citizens by giving them a very simple means of proof, which you yourself regularly use when travelling. i would like to return to the question of implementation. it is true that through recommendations proposed by the commission and adopted by the member states, we are trying to ensure that there is no requirement other than the certificate to travel. i recognise that there are still a number of additional measures decided in a few member states, the vast majority do not do so today, and we react whenever member states add measures which we consider unacceptable. i will mention the reactions we have had when certain member states have introduced quarantine measures which we consider to be going too far or discriminatory measures which do not take into account the epidemiological situation in the member states but sometimes favour neighbouring countries without taking into account, i repeat, the health situation throughout the european union. we have reacted regularly and will of course continue to do so, including in the context of the extension of the certificate. normally, you should be able to travel with this single certificate covering the various elements. as regards information, i understand the remarks and the letter that was sent to my colleague thierry breton on re-open eu. i must simply say that we rely heavily on information from the member states to be able to communicate the situation effectively throughout the union; but we are prepared to first raise awareness of this app among european citizens and perhaps, indeed, to find ways to make it even more operational if possible. i think we still have work to do in this area. i would now like to turn to the national use of the certificate. as i said, the certificate is a means of proof that we are putting in place at european level, which is also used by the member states for a whole range of other activities at national level. these rules should normally depend on the epidemiological situation in the various member states. i recognize that there is a patchwork, sometimes responding to different situations epidemiologically, but sometimes, you can have some questions about how the patchwork is organized. i would like to remind you that from the outset the commission has asked for these measures to be subject to scrutiny: parliamentary scrutiny at national level, so that the measures taken are the subject of this parliamentary debate, and judicial scrutiny. in a number of member states, you will have noticed that, sometimes up to the highest courts, there have been decisions on measures taken at national level to check their proportionality, necessity or non-discriminatory nature. i think we must continue to have this parliamentary and judicial control over measures at national level. i must also say that we really need to extend the tool we have put in place, this digital certificate, to facilitate the free movement of citizens as long as restrictions are organised at member state or third country level. i repeat: the commission obviously does not want these restrictions to continue beyond the pandemic. as soon as we have the opportunity to see these restrictions lifted, the certificate will disappear. the regulation does not call for any restrictions, it does not advocate any restrictions - quite the contrary. i really hope that we will have the opportunity to work together very soon on this extension of a tool which, i repeat, is now used not only in the member states but also in 35 third countries. we have already issued 1.3 billion certificates in the member states. i think most of you have seen the effectiveness of this evidence tool in making life easier for citizens in a particularly difficult time, of course, this pandemic. as soon as we get out of here, the certificate will die a beautiful death, and i'll be glad we don't have to use it anymore.
that concludes the debate on this matter. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. – the covid-19 pandemic has led to the biggest global recession since the second world war. european countries have been particularly affected and without doubt, the travel and tourism sectors have been hit harder than others. thanks to the european commission to act in december 2021 that the eu digital covid certificate (dcc) would be valid for nine months without a booster shot, several eu countries – including france, italy, denmark and malta – decided to shorten the validity of vaccination passes for national use to seven or three months. a number of countries have also introduced additional testing requirements that apply to vaccinated/recovered eu travellers, going against the current council recommendations. in hungary there are approximately 2 million citizens who were vaccinated with vaccines that have not yet received ema’s approval. the commission position is under the current rules, the certificate of a person who has received an eu-approved vaccine as the latest dose, be it during the primary vaccinate series or as a booster, must be accepted by other member states, even if a vaccine not (yet) approved at eu level was used for previous doses. i urge the commission to communicate this towards the member states and the public.
and before we move on to the next-last-day agenda item, i have one announcement. the verts/ale group has informed the chair of the decision on the changes to the appointment to the committee. this decision will be entered in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this communication.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on transport and tourism on the report on the setting of charges for heavy goods vehicles to use certain infrastructures (10542/1/2021 - c9-0423/2021 - 2017/0114 (cod)) (rapporteur: giuseppe ferrandino) (a9-0006/2022). i would remind members that there will be no open microphone procedures or blue cards accepted in any of the debates in this session. as in previous sessions, it is also planned to organise remote speeches from parliament's local offices in the member states. i'd also like to remind you that here in the auditorium, you will continue to stand from the central stand. so i encourage you to follow the list of speakers and go to the central stand when your time to speak approaches.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow we will have to make a choice, a choice which will determine whether there is a correspondence between what we say we want to do and what we actually do. we have been discussing the green deal for months and the need for its rapid implementation. we have agreed that reducing pollution is the key to a better and more sustainable future for our planet, and the euroboll is, in my view, a first, concrete and decisive response to these aims. with the directive we are voting on tomorrow at second reading, we are introducing for the first time two key concepts: "polluter pays" and "user pays". it is a copernican revolution, making europe a frontrunner in the fight against pollution. there have been 27 different approaches to road toll management to date, a nonsense that will no longer exist tomorrow. i've been reading a lot and listening a lot these days. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but is this not, i ask you, the very essence of the european union? the aim is to ensure that all its citizens, regardless of where they were born, are granted the same rights and are subject to the same rules. is it possible, in your opinion, that a battle of principle on a matter of common concern, such as the fight against pollution, should be so degraded? let us go into the substance of the directive then, to understand better what we are talking about. the first draft of the directive was designed to eliminate distortions of competition between road hauliers. it did not take into account the polluting factors, which came later when parliament introduced the environmental issues. we went to the negotiations strong of this mandate and defended it with our teeth. in the end, we reached an interinstitutional agreement, in my view. i 'm just saying . the commission has already proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this last point is particularly important to me, because it is a strong incentive to modernise fleets by choosing low- or even zero-emission vehicles. this is only the case with regard to the environmental issue, because we have also achieved another historic result: link the revenue from the congestion charge to the environmental rehabilitation of the motorway networks most prone to congestion. it's a principle of fairness. for the first time, the member states will not only have to invest the revenue from the exploitation of the networks in the fight against pollution, but will have to do so precisely on the stretches most prone to such phenomena. we have established, among other things, that the directive affects not only pollution from lorries over 12 tonnes but also light commercial vehicles, buses and all other heavy vehicles under 12 tonnes. i repeat, the point is: polluters pay and users pay. there is another subject which is close to my heart and which has been the subject of controversy, which i believe is instrumental, in recent days, namely the question of alleged double taxation. i just want to reassure everyone that that's not gonna happen. this is because we have introduced a lapse clause in the negotiations, which means that if the ets mechanism also covers road transport, only one of the two will apply, not both. there is one final reassurance that i would like to bring to your attention. it has been argued with a hint of malice that the directive will lead to a fragmentation of the internal market. in fact, what we are doing is specifying that the costs of tolls must be recovered in a fair and transparent way, taking into account, i repeat, that those who pollute and use the most will have to pay the most, not all citizens indiscriminately. i will conclude with one final appeal. some amendments were tabled in plenary with the aim of undermining the interinstitutional agreement. i appeal to your responsibility. this agreement is the result of a long and arduous process which has led to the formulation of a text which will significantly improve the management of tolls at european level. they must all be rejected, and i urge you to do so with conviction, because it is not true that if they are approved a new phase of negotiations on the dossier will be opened up. that, as you well know, is not going to happen. we simply risk leaving the situation unchanged for the next ten years and that is a danger we cannot run. this directive represents a first significant step in the implementation of the green deal in the transport sector. i therefore count on your support and your support in the vote tomorrow. thank you all and good work.
member of the commission. – mr president, putting the right price on carbon and road use has long been on our agenda, and it is clear to everyone how important decarbonisation is and how urgent it is to help the road transport sector adopt the cleanest and most efficient solutions. the commission made its proposal to revise the eu rules on road pricing in 2017, almost 5 years ago. the objective of this third revision was to make further progress on the implementation of the polluter-pays principle in road transport through more efficient and fairer pricing for both commercial and private road users. this is exactly what the final agreement is about. although the initial positions of the european parliament and those of the member states were very far apart, a carefully balanced political agreement was found last year in the space of just 6 months. the parliament can be proud of the result achieved. the commission is in favour of the agreement for a number of reasons. first, it is an essential and very timely contribution to the european green deal. trucks and buses will pay road tolls according to their co2 emissions, well before an emission-trading system for roads is put in place. their tolls will also reflect the costs of air and noise pollution. these will help the deployment of low- and zero—emission heavy-duty vehicles in a technology neutral manner. for the first time, eu rules on road pricing will apply to cars and vans. vignette prices will thus be more proportionate for the users of those vehicles and, thanks to this parliament, travellers will benefit from the option of daily vignettes. the new directive will make sure that tolling schemes do not discriminate against foreign drivers. furthermore, it will address specific shortcomings of the existing legislation, notably thanks to a simpler system of external cost charging and the new option of congestion charging. these will help member states reduce the negative impact of transport and make it more efficient, notably in environmentally sensitive and congested areas. in sensitive mountainous areas, member states can already apply higher tolls. under the new rules, applying such mark-ups will also be possible outside mountain zones, and the council added the option to go back to the 50% if directly concerned neighbours agree. this brings me to the amendments that have been tabled and that you will be voting on tomorrow, and to the controversy around this revision. while the commission would also have preferred somewhat higher ambition on certain aspects, no one can expect the council to accept such amendments, especially at this stage. despite the intention to improve the agreement reached, approving any of the amendments would not only further delay, but most likely stall, the adoption of this key piece of legislation, which is so important for our climate ambitions. this would not be in anyone’s interest, especially not in the interest of sensitive mountain regions that could make best use of the new provisions which i mentioned earlier.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first i would like to congratulate my colleague mr ferrandino for being so patient, because after almost 4 years of complicated negotiations, we are at the verge of adopting the eu road-charging legislative framework, and this framework is one of the main instruments and turning points in road transport decarbonisation. i cannot agree with ms thaler, because we used to have 27 different approaches and now this is a clear step in the right direction towards a european integrity. and phasing out of time—based charges for trucks on the core trans—european network and the shift to distance—based charging is a clear step forward. varying road charges based on the co2 emissions and the environmental performance of the vehicle, together with mandatory external cost-charging for trucks, will be a major incentive for the take-up of low- and zero-emission trucks and the renewal in the fleet. it shows that the provisional agreement will make the user-pays and polluter-pays principle applicable to road charging, which is one of the main principles of our european green deal. and the other very important element for the european parliament, which was very, very difficult to achieve, is the mandatory earmarking of the revenues of the congestion charges to be spent on sustainable transport. and with all i’ve said i want to encourage all of you not to support any amendments and support the provisional agreement because today we do not need to be part of the problem, but we need to be part of the solution and a solution is towards more sustainable, fairer road transport.
mr president, the right to a decent life and a healthy working environment is fundamental and as such should be a principle in any policy. today, unfortunately, we still cannot completely control cancer, and so efforts to fight its causes must continue. workers are often exposed to substances at work that increase health risks and can cause cancer, reproductive problems and infertility. measures to protect the health of vulnerable groups, health workers, especially women, steel and chemical workers and cleaning workers are particularly important. by extending the scope of the directive defining dangerous substances, i believe we are taking a decisive step towards ensuring better working standards. i would like to emphasise that compliance with the updated occupational exposure values is a guarantee of good health for all workers. it is also important that member states ensure that every worker is entitled to compensation in respect of an occupational disease. i have been consistent in my support of worker health policies and will continue to be.
member of the commission. – madam president, yes, today, more than ever, the european union needs to be in direct contact and have an open dialogue with european citizens. the european parliament has swiftly adapted to the challenges of the current pandemic. you play a key role in continuously engaging with the citizens, and i would like to thank you for all these efforts, also expressed in the report by ms vedrenne. let me first refer to the european citizens’ initiative, which is a unique instrument of participatory democracy. it gives all european citizens the power to directly approach the european commission and ask us to take action on a matter they care about. this year, the european citizens’ initiative celebrates its 20th anniversary, a good opportunity to give this unique tool even more visibility. since the beginning of 2020, when the new updated rules started to apply, we have already registered 17 new citizens’ initiatives, and we hope to receive many more in the future as we are further extending our information campaign and the legal and practical advice offered by the european citizens’ initiative (eci) forum. another important right that every european has is to complain to the european ombudsman. this is indeed a democratic and civil right, aimed at encouraging the full participation of european citizens, businesses, associations and ngos in the everyday life of the european union. we attach the utmost importance to it and, as you know, around two thirds of european ombudsman inquiries concern the commission as the institution with the most direct administrative dealings with citizens. the inquiries and initiatives of the european ombudsman cover a variety of important issues. it is, and will remain, essential for all institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the eu, and particularly the commission, to provide the best possible services and maintain the highest possible standards for the benefit of all european citizens. another important instrument for us is to listen to citizens and our replies to their petitions. they are an effective channel for direct contact and open dialogue with the european citizens. the commission has made further efforts to improve the speed, quality and pertinence of our replies to petitioners’ concerns. this includes the modernisation of the it tools for handling petitions and streamlining the underlying procedures. we will continue to provide detailed responses to petitions and outline possible solutions at european or national level.
that concludes the item. the vote on amendments will take place on tuesday, 8 march 2022 and the final vote on wednesday, 9 march 2022.
the next item is the one—minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 172). i would like to inform you that for the one-minute speeches you are invited to take the floor from your seat.
madam president, for eight years we and the russians have lived in a world of our own propaganda. we were wavering in our principles, and moscow was intimidating us with its military might. russia has done the unforgivable, and we are now watching through the sights of our weapons. what happened to our principles? if nato's open door policy had been applied, we would all be at war with russia today. we refused to talk, we did not pay the price of peace, and now we pay the price of war. ukraine relied on our protection, today we rely on ukraine to protect us. we're sending weapons that could escalate the threat to the closest union country. we're opening a fast lane to ukraine, which doesn't solve any of our problems, but it does negate our own criteria. today, there are two parties in europe: the peace party and the war party. in the war party, putin is not alone. there are also the shale gas lobby, the defense industry and global corporate interests that are degrading europe from a competitor in a normal market. the peace party is all the rest of us. i welcome the efforts of president macron. we need realism and dialogue, but first an immediate ceasefire.
madam speaker, ladies and gentlemen, a week ago in this chamber, we rallied around a resolution calling for maximum sanctions, including a ban on oil and natural gas imports, to contain the aggressor, to help in any way we can to stop the war and the suffering of the ukrainian people. this is not a utopia, this is a possible solution, but if we carefully rethink the philosophy of the green deal and even the meaning we have given to the concept of sustainability. in this situation, any solution that leads to our energy independence and our ability to economically isolate putin and the kremlin is sustainable. the most sustainable, of course, are renewable energy sources, because they are inexhaustible and independent of imports. but they're not the only solution. all technological alternatives to imports from russia coal, gas and nuclear energy, independent of foreign influence, should also be considered sustainable.
mr president, kyrill, 18 months – old killed from shelling. sofia, six years old – shot to death with her baby brother, mother and grandparents trying to escape by car. arseniy, 14 – bled to death from a fragment of projectile. child cancer patients treated in basements of hospitals. mothers with children targeted by gunfire while fleeing war. these are just some examples of how putin fights in ukraine – attacking women, children and civilians from the very beginning, and bombing schools, orphanages, apartment buildings, shooting unarmed civilians in the streets. as ukrainians cross the border to safety, europe has been united in showing immense solidarity. for instance, my country, czech republic, has collected the highest amount of money ever in our history, all going to humanitarian aid for ukraine. colleagues, we are witnessing war crimes by putin, and he must be held accountable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the brutal attack on ukraine, ordered from the kremlin, is leading to a flight of unbelievable proportions. we are having this debate in the european parliament on this movement of refugees on the very day of international women's day. it is therefore particularly appropriate to point out that once again, the refugees are mainly women and children, and to point out that once again in world history, it is women who are taking on the huge responsibility of getting children through these times. and it's also an occasion for us to say today -- because it's true -- that there would be less violence, less brutal violence and less warfare, if women had more to say. i believe strongly that men and women need to complement each other. but if women had had a say in the kremlin, perhaps this brutal attack, these war crimes, would not have happened. i would also like to point out that this moment of solidarity in europe, this historic unity, cannot be isolated, as it were, but must be sustainable. europe must move to a new level of civilization. and i would like to point out what boris johnson pointed out yesterday: the united kingdom is still a partner for us. perhaps the present situation also reminds us that we must not allow a witch hunt to be launched against the russian people if we impose sanctions which are intended to be effective because they are intended to help build peace. but all men are worth the same.
mr president, commissioner, the european citizens of poland, slovakia, hungary, romania and not only those who share a border with ukraine, but also my own country, bulgaria, which has also taken in 40,000 people, have done a great job. two million people in 12 days sheltered, fed, clothed. and this is an example of a wonderful, wonderful solidarity. although the best way to help refugees is to stop the war, because caring for refugees is a reaction, and we need real action. but there's one question that's been tormenting me, and i think it's addressed to all of us. why some refugees are better than others, why for some we are willing to give the keys to our own homes, and for others we keep them locked up in camps outside the borders of the european union. our solidarity with those fleeing war cannot and should not depend on the colour of our skin or our religion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are finding out in the most harsh way that we are still dependent on russian natural gas, whereas since 2014 putin has given us a writing sample with the illegal annexation of crimea. and, you know, we all have to acknowledge here that we're late. we've been slow to find alternative suppliers of natural gas. we've been slow to build the interconnections for electricity and gas ready for hydrogen. we have been slow to put emphasis on renewable energy investments and the development of renewable energy storage technology. now is the time to use the experience that the pandemic has given us. the time has come for a collective european response to the problem. to activate collective financing instruments to tackle energy costs, but above all to facilitate investment in renewable sources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the face of this crisis, ladies and gentlemen, we are all vulnerable. this lesson of history must be used without delay. with increased public acceptance, renewables, commissioner, can be at least 45% of the european union's energy mix in 2030. we just have to get to work now.
mr president, the energy crisis that began last year is now deepening and the situation in ukraine is intensifying the situation, so we must find solutions now. europe has only one way forward and this is energy independence and affordable electricity prices. we must develop domestic eu renewable technologies. we need additional funding for that and we need to guarantee stable renewable energy. the future, however, requires a baseload power, and the only path here is nuclear energy. we must now establish an accelerated procedure for the approval of the new nuclear projects in the eu without this being at the expense of the severe and strict safety requirements. renewable energy and nuclear energy are the only path forward to the green transition and to energy independence. only this would guarantee the energy autonomy of europe. we should not allow ourselves to move from one form of energy dependency to another one.
mr president, i would like to thank you. "don't you think that russian oil smells of blood?" asked the ukrainian foreign minister. i ask you today: don't you think the russian gas smells like blood? the russian gas has traces of ukrainian blood, whether you colleagues want to admit it or not. waving flags and banners echoes empty today, tomorrow and in history, unless we stop the russian gas. we are still funding putin's war. there is only one way forward, and that is an emergency stop on russian gas imports. it will bring about great changes and new choices. it will require us to do everything we can to reverse and reduce the impact on the energy market and bring down skyrocketing energy prices. it requires us to start producing more biogas and bioenergy, to start making energy more efficient, to start procuring energy solutions together, to start saying no to gas for heating, to start the full establishment of the energy union. it also requires us to stop putting sticks in the wheel of renewable energy, to stop talking about cutting cables between countries, to stop being protectionists and energy nationalists and to stop being useful idiots in putin's war.
mr president, if, back in october, we were right to be concerned about rising energy prices, we now have every reason to be even more concerned. putin’s criminal attack against ukraine further increases energy prices. we will see more vulnerable households and small businesses struggling to pay their bills. governments will have to support them with direct measures, and that’s why i welcome some of the proposals made today by the commission like decoupling electricity prices from gas prices. at the same time, putin’s war seems to be finally accelerating our decisions to become energy independent. however, we don’t want to escape from one dependency to fall into another one. diversifying gas routes and building new gas facilities cannot be the core of our response. it takes time to build new infrastructure – time we lack – and it diverts money that should be invested in energy efficiency and renewables. moving fast towards renewables and a green hydrogen—based economy is the only scenario where we will be able to tackle both the climate crisis and blackmailing from despots willing to play games with us.
mr president, our energy dependence is structural. it requires a swift response, like the one we gave to the pandemic or the effects of the invasion of ukraine with the sanctions that its protagonist deserves. we need a strategic gas reserve, but we must moderate the influence of this fuel on the calculation of the price of electricity: the operating accounts of many energy companies show that the growth of their profits is much higher than the increase in the raw materials they use. we need to empower consumers as producers and a robust mechanism to force those who make march their august to give back to the citizens and the productive fabric part of the returns that do not come, precisely, from innovation. the consolidation of the single energy market and the interconnections and infrastructures that we lack, such as those needed to link the networks of the spanish and french states, is a priority. let us accelerate the commitment to energy efficiency in homes and businesses and the deployment of renewables. meanwhile, states and regions need flexibility, understanding, to help their citizens and their industries weather this storm. people need security and wages commensurate with the cost of living. the industry, the activity. the other objective of russian aggression is to curb our recovery, jobs and growth, and to maintain the seductive power of our freedoms and our economic and social development is the best response to force and domination.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, many of you, including the commission and mr. timmermans, continue to defend the green deal. he assures us that it is thanks to her that the situation is not worse. but that's self-deception. the truth is that europe is taking a risk by betting on the green transition. we have destroyed our energy security in the hope of long-term independence with a green economy. we took a chance, and unfortunately, we lost. thanks to this, today gas prices are above the mind-boggling 295 euros per megawatt hour. this affects european citizens most of all. i'm worried about the cultural implications, i'm worried that very soon theaters, cinemas and all cultural institutions will not be able to pay their bills and will close. how are we gonna make up for the lack of gas? and we're going to compensate with american liquefied natural gas, which costs many times more? he'll replace one addiction with another. again, as a temporary measure, as i understand it, until the green deal starts to bear fruit, which i don't think will ever happen. the green deal is not the salvation we seek, as some of you are trying to convince me. she's a stone around our neck that's gonna drown us. it's time to get rid of it and seek true energy independence.
- what? the chairman, mr commissioner, madam, i have to ask you to stop. minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again on the threshold of defining the new priorities and objectives that the union is setting itself with a view to achieving a more stable and sustainable future. the definition of these guidelines requires precision and foresight, because the war in ukraine, which i strongly condemn, is taking place in europe, just outside the union's borders, and will undoubtedly have an impact on our economic and social development. i believe that the semester is a key tool to ensure effective economic governance and to provide flexibility for member states to address the challenges facing the economy and society. this semester focuses on governance based on solidarity, social justice and inclusion, gender equality, high quality and accessible public services, education system and employment. all of them are essential to the development of the union. i believe that economic growth and competitiveness must be stimulated while adapting to the new reality.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that our main, if not our only, priority at the moment is the energy independence of the european union. and this is not a priority for the next few weeks or months, but after 20 years of wrong policy in this regard, we have to realize it as a priority for at least the next 20. and if in the short term, ensuring our energy independence has to be achieved by whatever means - we have no particular choice - then in the long term we have both a policy that we already follow and a policy that we must assess as absolutely correct. it is to focus all our efforts on ensuring the energy independence and energy security of our continent, our countries and our citizens through renewable energy sources, by using the energy that nature gives us - inexhaustible and independent of external factors. so the first priority is to have a means of storing and using this energy, which we generally call batteries. and here comes the moment that dozens of colleagues before me have already set. and is it resource independent as we develop our battery industry, as we develop our energy storage systems? and the answer right now is obviously "no". and just as we are dependent on russia's fossil resources, we are now dependent on the resources needed to develop our battery production. the question is, do we have the resources to be independent? and here we have to give a very clear answer: yes, we have the most important resource, the resource of people, the resource of knowledge. this is the key resource that europe has and that europe needs to develop - the technology, the innovation, the knowledge to be the clear leader in the world in battery production and development.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, you know, i was 10 years old when the recklessness of the communist dictatorship in the kremlin blew up the chernobyl nuclear power plant and led to thousands of deaths across europe. in the following years, protests against the communist dictatorship in bulgaria were mainly for environmental and ecological causes. in this sense, freedom, peace and the protection of nature have always been deeply, intimately linked and have always been the basis of both european democracy and, more generally, european humanism. why am i saying all this? because today some are trying to counterbalance the need to strengthen security policy with the need to preserve our active environmental policy. that's an unreasonable approach. these are not different values. man is not separate from nature, man is part, and a small, humble part, of nature. and yet i cannot ignore the fact that there is too much wishful thinking in the report we are discussing. desirable thinking that stimulates this contrast between the security that is our top priority today and the long-term security that only a conserved nature can give us and especially the generations after us. colleagues, today, when the chernobyl nuclear power plant is once again in the hands of the moscow dictatorship, and once again under nuclear alarm because of aggression and ignorance, we must realize that unfortunately, and for how many times, paradise is postponed. our first priority is the safety of our families, our country, and our planet.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, ensuring a favourable working environment and health protection for all workers remains a challenge in the union. it is unacceptable that more than 200,000 workers still die of occupational diseases every year. we need to protect workers from exposure to harmful substances, stress at work and injury. more than ever, mental health issues have been exacerbated by the pandemic. the impact of new technologies such as artificial intelligence, new generation machines and tools, the impact of new chemical substances and products should be taken into account in terms of ensuring health and safety at work. today, more and more workers are turning to platform work or other atypical forms of employment. these workers must also have effective protection. i strongly support the zero casualty approach to occupational accidents and diseases. member states should develop strategies to adapt workplaces to the needs of an ageing workforce, people with chronic diseases and people with disabilities. the promotion of education, training and lifelong learning for all people of all ages, and measures to achieve a better work-life balance, should be part of these strategies, together with the promotion of intergenerational exchanges in the workplace. i strongly believe that this report is a good foundation and provides a solid basis for improving actions to protect and save human lives by improving the overall health status.
madam president, the unprecedented situation with the war in ukraine requires urgent, coordinated and well-considered measures at european and national level. it is important to provide financial support to farmers, especially small farms and livestock farmers, immediately. small food producers facing increased production costs, shortages and high raw material prices. we need to help all low-income people to make food affordable. commissioner, i very much welcome the measures proposed by the commission to ensure food security. bulgarian farmers are on the verge of bankruptcy. i strongly urge the bulgarian authorities to take immediate action and to take advantage of all the instruments proposed by the commission. i insist that farmers be actively involved in this process.
madam president, repowereu would have been an outstanding plan back in 2014, when war was predictable, but we failed to act. now it is too little, too late. now we need a plan by the hour and not by the decades. what we need is to impose a full energy embargo on russian oil and gas in order to stop financing putin’s aggression. but we need also to be ready for putin’s regime to cut off our supply. the council and commission offer a long-term plan based on renewables and energy storage, and we all like it. but we don’t see the emergency measures like immediate activation of the european union. finishing work on interconnections is a matter of real emergency, starting as of now, of joint procedures, of gas from no russian sources, regulating co-generation as an emergency source of energy, but also radically putting an end to red tape and corruption that are suffocating our renewable production.
madam chairman, mr vice president, colleagues. i am afraid i do not share the general view in this debate and i think this report is going in the wrong direction. and he's also very old. its very text takes into account phenomena from before the energy crisis of the autumn of 2021 and long before putin's aggression in ukraine. the purpose of the market reserve is to enable both to prevent oversupply of the quota market, oversupply, and to counteract a sharp rise in prices by strengthening supply in the face of increased demand, as we have seen throughout the end of 2021. the proposed decision would limit this possibility to the european commission. it will tie the hands of the otherwise good idea of the market reserve. this will prevent the commission from being able to intervene in the event of further price shocks and limit the burden on consumers and businesses. let's not forget the whole point of emissions trading is to give a price high enough to motivate entrepreneurs to invest. at today's prices, such an artificial, politically motivated policy is unnecessary. the prices are high enough, and if we keep raising them, we're going to take away the ability of businesses to invest in new technologies, and we're going to have the opposite effect of the one that we all want.
madam president, i think we need a certain degree of moderation and common sense in this debate. and i am listening to the debate for a full hour now. and i’m afraid i heard too many reasonable, clever, but far too extreme opinions. of course we need more renewables, of course we need smarter grids, and of course we need it as fast as we can. but cutting off the kremlin butcher’s gas supply, we need to do now – today, not in five years, not in three years, not even in six months. and this we cannot do without providing interconnections of our gas supply, without providing alternative sources. and when we say alternative sources, it cannot be a new dependency, because when you have alternatives, it means you don’t have dependencies. and in my country, we have 100% gas dependency on the butcher there in kremlin.
madam president, colleagues, the link between the regime of vladimir putin and radical populist movements, i wouldn't even call them left or right, they don't deserve it, but within the european union it has long been unquestioned, let alone clearly proven only in this current debate. but it's about us. the question is what do we do about who we are? are we analysts, are we journalists? how can we, as european institutions, break this link and guarantee the security of our citizens? my answer is that the first thing we need to do is look very carefully at what's happening on social media, because what's happening there is not freedom of speech, but a hybrid military operation of the russian regime on many levels. because if we look closely at bulgarian facebook, we see that the very same profiles and algorithms that created anti-vaccine sentiment among two-thirds of the bulgarian population are now creating grounds to defend putin's aggression among at least one-third of the bulgarian population. thank god, less successful than before. but more than that, serious journalistic investigations and serious public data show that the very moderation of the bulgarian facebook has been broken, that within this operation, democratic opinions are actually filtered, profiles that fight for the humanist goals for which the people of ukraine are currently dying are filtered and blocked, and those who deliberately, maliciously spread putin's propaganda are encouraged, disseminated and confirmed. this is a problem that we can only solve together with the european commission and the european institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the schengen area is an achievement which brings undeniable economic and social benefits. strengthening its resilience means ensuring its good functioning when facing evolving threats and challenges, such as in cases of migratory pressure, terrorism and pandemic emergencies. the reintroduction of internal border controls should really be a measure of last resort and not an abuse, as we have seen too often in the case of the control of secondary movements. we need coordinated responses from the european union rather than unilateral actions by individual member states. simplifying and speeding up the procedures of the evaluation mechanism will make it possible to identify shortcomings in the application of the schengen provisions and to address them rapidly. better cooperation between the parties concerned will foster mutual trust and loyal cooperation between member states. preserving the free movement of persons, goods and services, within a legal framework capable of ensuring a high level of security and justice and respect for fundamental rights, will be essential for the recovery and success of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i want to welcome and support this report. i am very pleased that we will have a new evaluation mechanism for schengen law, the schengen acquis. in my country, the czech republic, i can see the emotions it evokes when one of the member states breaches the acquis and there are incidents at internal borders, which often violate the rights of citizens of our countries. in other words, a new mechanism that will result in a country that breaks the acquis being held accountable much more quickly and effectively. the time-limits within which the commission assesses the situation will be shortened and, most importantly, the time-limit within which the country concerned will be forced to make a correction will be shortened. well, that's something our citizens would greatly appreciate. the acquis relating to the schengen area is a right which citizens perceive with great sensitivity. as has been said here, the very possibility of free travel is a clear advantage that our citizens perceive. and if this mechanism removes the incidents and problems that were associated with the problems that we were also dealing with, with the pandemic, with the refugee crises, then i think this adjustment will lead to even greater credibility of the european union and our citizens will have more faith in us, in the politicians in brussels and in the idea of european integration in general.
mr president, commissioner, one of the biggest achievements of eu integration and one of the most valued by eu citizens, is the free movement within the schengen area. however, over the last years, the schengen area has been under a lot of pressure: the increased arrival of migrants and asylum seekers, terrorist attacks, the epidemic, and the continuation by several member states to prolong internal border controls for some years. yet, there have been no consequences for them. the current evaluation and monitoring mechanism has been too slow and ineffective – this is true. but there has also been a clear lack of political will from the commission to enforce the rules. i would also like to use the opportunity to remind you that, at the same time, the maintenance of internal border controls for bulgaria and romania has had a significant negative impact, both economic and social, despite the fact that the two countries had already met all the necessary conditions for the full application of the schengen acquis in 2011. all the best evaluation mechanisms in the world will not help us if there is no political will to make schengen truly work for all the european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms is a fundamental principle of the european union. the union, from the day of its creation, aims to combat social exclusion and discrimination. sadly, the reality is still different today. thousands of people in the community, especially in roma communities, live in extremely precarious conditions. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century there are still minorities who lack access to quality drinking water, healthcare, education, social services, sanitation and sewerage. if we are to talk about a europe where no one is left behind, we must ensure that all citizens have equal access to adequate conditions. member states must do more to ensure that funds reach those in need without delay. my party, the movement for rights and freedoms, has always stood for diversity, unity in diversity and democratic principles. we will continue to support policies for better integration of both roma and all minorities.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs schmidbauer. renew europe welcomes the plan for organic production. the benefits of organic farming are many and they are for both people and nature. the fact is that countries have different starting points and different climatic and geographical characteristics. this also requires a targeted approach that takes account of these specificities. i believe that the development of national organic production plans would be a good tool to stimulate this type of farming, but they must be realistic, financially secure, with clearly defined objectives and timeframes. and most importantly, they should be implemented effectively. the rlf has long developed a concept of clean food and organic production, knowing that this would be extremely beneficial for farmers and for rural development, given the environmental benefits and higher incomes for farmers. farmers are also showing interest, but they need support, the removal of administrative burdens and simplification of certification procedures. bulgaria has the potential to become one of the leading countries in the production of clean food, which in turn will guarantee decent incomes for farmers. it is high time that this potential of our country is developed by drawing up a long-term vision and strategy that gives the necessary predictability and support to the sector. it is important to promote short food supply chains and to stimulate the consumption of local products that meet the high european quality standards.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members. i would like to thank the rapporteur ms carvalhais for this report, which is an important follow—up to the commission communication on the sustainable blue economy of 17 may 2021. first, let me highlight that we have shifted over the years from blue growth to a sustainable blue economy, a concept which has the sustainable use of our marine resources at its centre. the commission promotes an integrated and cross-sector approach to the sustainable blue economy without setting, for instance, specific objectives for fisheries and aquaculture. nevertheless, i fully concur with you that the fisheries and aquaculture sectors are key sectors in the blue economy and provide for an important source of protein that is essential for food security and human health. let me now touch upon some key elements of your report and of tonight’s debate. i fully agree with you that the new projects and instruments are needed for all blue economy stakeholders. the commission believes that new technologies, innovation and digitalisation will boost the green transition of the blue economy, also for those sectors considered established, such as fisheries and aquaculture. however, in order to fully use this potential, significant investments in innovation are needed in our coastal regions, including the outermost regions. to that end, the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund, with a total budget of eur 6.1 billion, will contribute to the horizontal priorities of resilience, green and digital transition by supporting innovative projects. in addition, i want to mention other key funding sources put in place to support the sustainable blue economy. the blueinvest scheme together with its scale-up the blueinvest pilot fund, the new investblue economy instrument as well as the new dedicated financial instrument established together with the european investment fund. i agree with you that sustainable aquaculture should play an important role in terms of food security, employment and sustainable food systems in the eu. in this regard, i want to point to the commission’s strategic guidelines on aquaculture of 2021, which provide concrete recommendations and actions. i also fully concur with you on the need to support the development of algae production as a largely untapped, sustainable alternative raw material for many industries, including food and feed. therefore, the commission will come forward with the eu algae initiative in line with the farm to fork strategy before the end of the year. as stated in the report, ports have a key role to play in the development of a sustainable blue economy. they need to become real hubs of blue economy activities, including renewable energy, fisheries, aquaculture, biotechnology and tourism. support to the development of the necessary infrastructure and digitalisation is very important in this respect. your report also contains important findings on the international dimension of the sustainable blue economy. i fully agree that the regional fisheries management organisations are crucial to promote science-based conservation and the sustainable management of fish stocks. therefore, the commission will continue efforts to upgrade the existing regional fisheries body in west africa in line with the commission’s ocean governance communication. i also want to underline that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements the eu concludes with third countries aim towards resource conservation and environmental sustainability. the financial compensation targets also the sustainable economic and social development in those third countries. last but not least, i want to address the call for a ban on the use of bottom trawling in all marine protected areas. as you know, the commission in its biodiversity strategy has committed to look at how to reconcile the use of bottom contacting fishing gear with biodiversity goals, given it is now the most damaging activity in the seabed and how this can be done in a fair and just way for all. we are currently looking into this question in the context of preparations for upcoming action plan to conserve fisheries resources and protect marine ecosystems, which we endeavour to present before the summer. the action plan will be based on the scientific evidence and through analysis of the social, economic and environmental impacts, based on the available data, as well as on the results of our extensive consultation with stakeholders over the last year. the commission is determined to ensure a balance between the urgent protection of the marine environment on the one side and the immediate social and economic challenges on the other side, as required by our fisheries and environmental legislation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the one-minute debate (rule 172).
mr president, in 2020, bulgaria vetoed the opening of the negotiation process with skopje. the arguments are well known: the language of hatred in official sources and the attacks on bulgarian history in the curricula of the republic of north macedonia. in recent months, pressure from the european commission and some of our partners has created the paradoxical feeling that bulgaria is the candidate country, while skopje already enjoys the privileges of a member of the club. the war in ukraine is used as an additional argument to force the bulgarian veto. bulgaria is expected to sacrifice its history in the name of higher geopolitics, but that is a vicious shortsightedness. by its uncritical attitude towards skopje, the european union is overriding its own copenhagen criteria and bringing unresolved issues to europe with the potential to create internal tension in a sensitive region like the balkans. i call on the commission and parliament to take account of bulgaria's position and not to multiply the risks facing the union, which needs to be consolidated around its principles in order to survive the difficult times we are experiencing.
madam president, dear commissioners, i refer to today’s topic with regard to the crisis that we have in bulgaria and poland due to the cutting off of russian gas. so, most naturally in this situation, my question is oriented twofold. one is the direction of concrete measures of european solidarity towards our two countries in this crisis period. since there is already certain initiatives on behalf of the commission – and we are thankful for that – i have another, and i would say rather more important, question: what are the precise countermeasures against gazprom and the russian federation that the commission is preparing? we are not yet aware of these.
my additional question would be on the countermeasures. i do not, madam commissioner, really agree that when you have gazprom on the table, it is a purely commercial dispute. when you have gazprom acting, especially acting by cutting off the contract-based gas supply of two nato and european union countries, it’s obviously purely political. and therefore, my question was mainly what political countermeasures would the commission take?
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission would like to thank parliament – in particular the transport and tourism committee for having tabled this important and most timely resolution. unfortunately, commissioner vălean was unable to be here this evening, so on her behalf please allow me to begin by putting this resolution into context. through its unprovoked and unjustified military actions, russia is grossly violating international law and undermining european and global security and stability. the loss of life and human suffering is difficult to comprehend. the commission condemns this aggression in the strongest possible terms. the transport sector and the individuals that keep it running are among the many victims of this needless violence. ukraine’s airports are barely functioning. its ports are blocked, impeding the delivery of food and grain in particular. and railway lines continue to be the targets of attack. commercial maritime vessels have also been bombed. at the same time, we can be proud of the way that our eu transport sector has responded to the crisis, carrying supplies to ukraine while ferrying ukrainians to safety, often for free. transport operators and workers have shown us the meaning of the word solidarity. commissioner vălean herself witnessed the great efforts of our transport community during her visit to the polish ukrainian border on 11 march. the commission has fully supported these actions. we have applied maximum flexibility to road transport legislation, lifting toll obligations and relaxing driving- and rest—time rules. we have also issued guidelines on simplifying border checks for individuals such as transport workers, if the conditions allow. we are also recommending special lanes for lorries and we will need to ask the road transport sector to help ukraine again, along with the rail and inland waterways sectors. with most of ukraine’s sea ports out of bounds, we need to find other ways for ukraine to export its goods into the eu. we are working in close collaboration with the ukraine support group and member states to identify how best to redirect freight transport, and we have already asked the council for a mandate to negotiate an agreement with ukraine and moldova on the transport of goods by road. this is a first step and we are confident that we will be able to start negotiations with both partners quickly. the agreement will also address eu recognition of driving licences and professional certificates issued in ukraine. the commission calls on the european parliament to give its consent swiftly. we need the agreements to be in place within weeks, for our friends in ukraine and for food security elsewhere. when considering the many impacts of russia’s invasion of ukraine, the people of ukraine must always be first and foremost in our minds, as well as the very serious effect on the transport sector. rising fuel costs are a very visible and direct impact on most transport modes and their users. but let us not forget: for the services that previously crossed ukraine, the black sea, russia, belarus, rerouting also pushes costs upwards, and we are also seeing disruptions in our supply chains, including for food. it is clear that the war is having an impact, but for the time being, it’s difficult to quantify that impact. the commission is closely monitoring the situation for transport and tourism and is working around the clock to mitigate the impacts. asking slot coordinators to provide air carriers with sufficient flexibility to re-time their slots for routes affected by the war is just one example. the tourism ecosystem has been among the most impacted by covid and now faces further uncertainties due to the russian aggression on ukraine. while we have rather reassuring evidence for the upcoming summer seasons showing an overall strong demand for travel within the eu, you rightly mention in your resolution that member states bordering ukraine are facing particular difficulties due to the perceived risk of the military activities expanding. nevertheless, the governments and businesses of these countries have shown particularly strong solidarity with ukraine by hosting ukrainian refugees and facilitating their employment and integration. in this context, the commission has provided a number of measures to urgently redirect eu funds in support of these efforts to help ukrainian refugees and to provide relief for businesses due to rising energy costs, in particular the temporary state aid crisis framework in the context of russia’s invasion of ukraine and the ‘cohesion’s action for refugees in europe (care), allowing flexible and speedy relocation of available funding to such emergency support. hotels and other accommodations can benefit from this support. the commission is committed to continue its support to the eu tourist ecosystem by addressing the lasting impacts of the pandemic and of the russian war, as well as facilitating recovery and transformation of the sector towards increased sustainability and resilience to the future shocks through the implementation of the transition pathway for tourism. while our transport and tourism sectors are certainly feeling the effects of russian aggression, the impact is even greater for russia. international russian civil aviation connections have been drastically reduced. and closer to home, there are now no flights operated over eu territory by russian or belarusian registered aircraft. we are also working on securing the same conditions for aircraft registered in third countries, but under russian ownership. in road transport we are watching closely to ensure that the current situation is being observed by all parties. the same applies to maritime transport for both access to eu ports and export restrictions on certain vessels and marine equipment. in rail transport russian railways have been added to the list of legal entities and bodies subject to financial restrictions. and if the situation on the ground continues to deteriorate, i can assure you that the commission will not hesitate to introduce additional measures. so let me conclude again by thanking you very much for this opportunity to address you on this crucial issue. i very much look forward to your comments and questions.
mr president, thank you very much. we have problems with the spanish translation. so it’s coming and going and we cannot follow the debate without the translation. in english it’s still fine, but if somebody else is going to use other languages, we have problems with that. if you can fix it, please.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, european transport is still struggling with the effects of the covid-19 pandemic, is struggling to cope with the pressure of the changes demanded by the green deal and at the same time has to cope with the consequences of the sanctions against russia which, in the fifth package, significantly target air and sea transport. we need to act quickly to support transport, both to keep mobility in the union and the economy functioning normally and to be able to continue to help ukraine. i hope this war ends with ukraine's victory and acceptance of the new reality. russia can no longer be accepted as a partner of the union in any field. the commission needs to reconfigure the programmes so that we improve connectivity with eastern europe. it needs to extend the ten-t network to the republic of moldova, ukraine and georgia and redesign transport maps to eastern europe. the eib is to propose an investment programme for ukraine, moldova and georgia. we need to increase the budget allocated to military mobility, through the connecting europe facility, which was drastically reduced by the council and which is now proving to be a big mistake. funds from the rdf pillar ii which are not currently used may be used.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in today’s unprecedented crisis, transport is a strategic tool for the eu to provide solidarity and support to ukraine and its suffering people, in terms of logistics, humanitarian aid and refugees’ evacuation and mobility. moreover, the rising fuel prices following the pandemic have been further exacerbated by the economic sanctions imposed on the russian federation. higher prices for fuels and products will impact households and possibly lead to increased energy and transport poverty, but they will also have an impact on transport workers. and our reaction needs to show solidarity between all eu member states, to our citizens, workers, families and vulnerable groups. proactive and preventive measures are crucially needed to support our citizens through the transition, including key incentives or direct support to keep their jobs, change their vehicles, make their homes efficient, and their fuels affordable. our transition to climate neutrality is our transition to energy independence, which is now needed more than ever. however, the transition can be called sustainable only if it shields the humble and vulnerable.
in writing. the russian incursion into ukraine has left europe facing an economic shock of uncertain duration and scale. the war continues, and it is a prerequisite for a severe humanitarian crisis affecting millions of people. the union is not immune to this process. the sanctions packages are a clear sign of the eu's position and it will not stop defending its values. the sanctions packages affect all eu citizens and businesses. ambitious instruments are needed to support them. now is the time for the eu to unleash its full potential and show that it has learned the lessons of previous crises. this certainly presents us with difficult decisions. i believe it is extremely important to have a real view of the facts, to analyse them properly, so that we can ensure the efficient allocation and use of resources. life in the union must be protected. a way must be found to reduce the eu's energy dependence on russian supplies. bulgaria is also one of the countries where gas supplies from russia were cut off. we need to respond more quickly with social and economic measures in response to the war in ukraine.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the court of auditors, the committee on constitutional affairs, in its resolution on the 2020 discharge of the council and the european council, regrets the continued lack of cooperation by the council. we need more transparency. we have asked for a memorandum between parliament and the council, but that is not enough. the citizens also called for more transparency and accountability at the conference on the future of europe. the people who elect us have a right to know how we spend their money and it is the duty of this house, the home of european democracy, to be accountable to the people of europe. in these months of ongoing pandemic and conflict, of economic crisis, many are calling for our union to be in a position to give concrete answers. we therefore call for a revision of the treaties, the reform of which must also include the protection of the union's financial interests and the prerogatives of the european parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can be glad that we have 53 institutions in the european union and that their budgetary weight is less than 7%, which means that the union budget is truly an investment budget and that it is a high added value. as far as parliament is concerned, we can also take pride in knowing that we can give the discharge for 2020. the accounts are correct, comply with the rules and all the legislation in force. i would also like to thank you for the fact that in 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, we worked quickly remotely for the benefit of citizens, thanks to all the staff of this parliament and this institution, in addition to the speed with which we worked in difficult conditions and were pioneers on a global scale, we managed to have solutions for citizens, legislation of enormous quality. so thank you very much and we will of course give the discharge to the 2020 budget of the european parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we welcome the work of the european commission in 2020. of course, we also take note of the court’s findings, showing that there are still problems requiring improvement both at eu level and at member state level. we ask the commission to carry on taking measures to reduce the outstanding payments, as well as to continue to deal with outstanding issues, in order to increase the trust of the eu citizens when it comes to the eu budget and financing. however, we must not forget that 2020 was a very challenging year. the commission managed to ensure good governance of the eu budget and had an adequate response to the consequences of the covid—19 crisis. despite the significant impact on the internal functioning and the management of the eu budget, we welcome the efforts on the temporary mechanisms such as support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (sure) and the corona response initiative. they helped to smooth the negative effects of the crisis. therefore, s&d recommends to grant discharge to the european commission for 2020.
mr president, the risk facing the pegasus committee of this house is that it will end up mainly delivering indignant and pious platitudes about high—tech spying on governments, institutions and individuals. we all know that spying happens between friendly governments, possibly including within the eu, and between unfriendly ones. we protest strongly when it happens to us, less so when it affects those we see as unfriendly. none of us would wish to stop the development of cyber—technologies that are making invasive spying so feasible. we know that, whatever safeguards are established, they will soon become outdated. meanwhile, secret services will continue to spy on foreign governments, on friendly governments, on political parties, as will corporations. one way forward would be clearly to identify all the actors who have an interest in cyber—spying and surveillance, and then to create an updated legal framework, for starters, on a european basis, that sets norms and limits while enabling the deployment of investigations, the issuance of sanctions and the funding of continuous research into surveillance systems and who runs them. consideration could also be given to how advanced democracies should update their legal approaches to regulate the cyber—surveillance conducted by their own secret services.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the misuse of software such as pegasus for espionage purposes is only part of a much larger threat to the fundamental rights of european citizens. seduced by the luxury of voice-controlled smartphones and appliances, we've allowed private individuals to create the largest spyware program ever. every day, 500 million europeans are unknowingly monitored and their personal data is plundered by companies that analyse their behaviour, tastes and opinions for commercial, social and political purposes. advances in artificial intelligence and the metaverse are leading to solutions to allow for full control and predictive capability over people's feelings, thoughts and actions to determine their every choice. many people think that surveillance is just a tool of capitalism to maximize its profits. but the reality is that governments and public institutions are increasingly using it as a weapon to control and limit the freedom of their citizens, just like in china. a nightmare we thought only existed in science fiction movies, but now it's reality. this is a nightmare which this parliament must fight to prevent europe from becoming a guinea pig and europe from becoming a horrible big brother.
mr president, dear colleagues, the russian attack on ukraine has profoundly highlighted the importance of democratic values and freedom of expression in society. in a society based on the rule of law, the freedom of expression is a cornerstone. for a functioning democracy, it’s essential that those holding power can be scrutinised and criticised for their actions. the media has a key role in this. it is the watchdog of democracy. media freedom is essential for democracy to succeed. the pegasus spyware cases are concerning examples of illegal, targeted surveillance. it’s extremely important that we recognise such matters of illegal surveillance that are increasingly used, as they have significant effects on the right to privacy. the revealed pegasus illegal surveillance cases are not only devastating on the victims, but they also affect the development of democracy and the rule of law. the misuse of spyware against journalists, defenders of human rights and the opposition affects everybody who wants to critically examine their government, protect democracy and the rule of law. they are cyberattacks against democracy and violate the fundamental values of the european union. we must not stand by and watch such violations of democracy emerge, but take action against illegal surveillance, support the victims of such cases, and protect our fundamental rights.
mr. chairman, the pegasus software is the product of the compromises we've made over the last 20 years. we've accepted that security requires sacrifice. the fight against terrorism has become a pretext for the invasion of the privacy of inconvenient journalists, human rights activists and politicians. we've accepted that what we blame others for doesn't apply to us. we vote on dozens of declarations against the trampling of freedom of speech around the world, but we accept without complaint the extradition of julian assange, who has debunked our claims of integrity. and it's the anti-conformists like assange that pegasus is targeting. we increasingly judge personality as a collection of data, denying the right of a person to have his own hesitations, doubts, mistakes and redemptions. the pegasus affair has shown the lack of a mechanism to guarantee the freedoms of our citizens. i therefore welcome the european parliament's committee of inquiry to find out which governments are trampling on union law and the rights of europeans.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. appropriate steps must be taken without delay to preserve the eu's credibility in the enlargement process. enlargement to the western balkans is a common european security, economic and geopolitical interest, as the region is surrounded on all sides by the eu. north macedonia is situated on the western balkan migration route and therefore has a very important role to play in stopping illegal immigration. in addition, for almost 20 years, north macedonia has been committed to the goal of european integration and has demonstrated its commitment to 100% alignment of its foreign and security policies. the western balkans region and, with it, the early integration of north macedonia into the eu community is of paramount importance in view of the russian aggression and the security challenges that have followed. it's in all of our security interests. let us not present any further challenges to the countries of the region committed to european integration. we must do everything we can to expand as soon as possible.
mr president, today we heard maia sandu, who asked for membership of moldova to the european union. i fully support that. i support the candidacy and the opening of moldova, of ukraine, of eastern partnership countries. this is a peace and stability issue. ilhan kyuchyuk, i congratulate you on your report. you know what ‘minority’ means, being of a minority in bulgaria. but some people here don’t know the history of the former yugoslavia. identities matter. identities in the western balkans matter more than all, so we should resolve this dispute. north macedonia is close to my heart, the same as bosnia and herzegovina. shared power, the ohrid peace agreement, the prespa agreement – all these agreements should be respected. otherwise this fine balance after milosevic’s attack on all these people will never be resolved. so for all these people in the eastern part who never went through what happened with yugoslavia, how it dissolved, i would ask you to just learn a bit about history. what milosevic started we should really resolve. there are lessons to learn, exercise and try to respect, and not to allow any ‘milosevic’ to appear again and the majority to rule over minorities. so respect the agreements, respect minorities, respect shared power, respect the dayton peace agreement.
mr president, why are we still having this discussion? the council decided to start negotiations in 2020. why are they not getting things done, like they promised the people of the west balkan countries? the eu is founded on the promise of peace. offering all of the western balkan countries, especially macedonia, membership of the eu contributes to peace in europe. we don’t want to give russia any chance to destabilise the political situation in these countries. but our actions, or rather the lack of action, point in the opposite direction. political stability in the western balkans is important for humanitarian, economic and political reasons. it makes sense to act accordingly. to make it complete, let’s make serious work of visa liberalisation for the people of kosovo. they are in need of that as well. the council has to act now!
mr president, the report on north macedonia is internally contradictory. it lacks the most important thing, which is that north macedonia is not fulfilling the treaty with bulgaria. bulgaria has insisted that skopje start implementing this contract. and the most important thing in it is to respect the history and culture of the bulgarian people, to respect and respect the rights of bulgarians. macedonism itself is anti-bulgarianism and nationalism in constant action. it is a war against bulgarian history, culture and bright historical figures. the birthplace of macedonism is moscow, its birthplace is the communist international. north macedonia has not decommunised. what do macedonian politicians tell us today? i'll try to explain it to my german colleagues. they tell us this: "we are bavarians, therefore we are not germans". i don't agree with that. i think the bavarians are germans and i think that common history is made by common people. (the president declared the sitting closed)
in writing. – since february 2022, the eu has been horrified by the atrocities of russia’s command and army in ukraine. russia relentlessly destroys infrastructure, including non-military buildings such as schools and hospitals; conducts ecocide and nuclear terrorism; uses hunger to control the population and mass-exports agricultural products from ukraine. ukrainian military personnel and civilians face daily threats to their lives and dignity. russia has committed all possible categories of international crimes, which the world has banned since world war ii, and has crossed boundaries of humanity by actions that are essentially genocide of ukrainians and aimed at annihilation of ukraine’s sovereign state. the eu, as an entity established to maintain peace on the european continent, must act promptly. parliament urges the eu to lead global efforts and assist ukrainians in bringing all those engaged in the crimes to justice using every legal means available. we will continue to support the courageous ukrainian people, as well as the political, economic and legal pressure on russia and its war criminals.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement entitled 'repowereu plan: european solidarity and energy security in the face of the russian invasion of ukraine, including the recent gas supply cuts to poland and bulgaria' (2022/2654 ((rsp)). i remind you that seats are free and you can request cards for the catch the eye and 'blue card' procedures. speeches in the chamber shall be made from the central platform, except for requests for the use of the floor.
member of the commission. – honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me to speak today. three weeks ago, russia cut gas supplies to poland and bulgaria, making the threat of losing gas and fossil fuel supplies for the whole eu more tangible. this shows again that russia is not a reliable trading partner. yesterday, the commission presented the repowereu plan to phase out russian fossil fuels from our system and replace them with stable, affordable, clean energy. to open up the session, i will give you some concrete details included in the repowereu plan. first, i want to mention infrastructure. this is the time to implement many long—pending projects, with a particular focus on cross—border connections to build an integrated energy market that secures supply in a spirit of solidarity. the ten-e has played, and will continue to play, an important role to achieve this goal. repowereu shows that it will be possible to fully compensate the equivalent of russian gas imports by a combination of demand reduction and increase of domestic production of biogas, hydrogen and other renewables, and limited additions of infrastructure. gas storage will be the key part of this plan. just an hour ago, we achieved agreement between the co—legislators on the gas storage obligation proposal, and i am immensely grateful for the members of parliament and the french presidency for a very constructive approach, because this crucial piece of legislation helps us to be better prepared for the situation where there will be full disruption of russian gas flows. but of course we will also boost the transition to renewables and accelerate the european green deal. until now, we have been climate leaders across the globe, but this shift in gear means we will be able to leapfrog even faster towards sustainability, energy independence and more local industry. to do this, we have proposed to increase the share of renewables in our energy mix to 45% by 2030. to achieve this goal, we need unprecedented actions at unprecedented speed. that brings me to the elephant in the room: we have to make this process shorter, we have to streamline as much as possible. of course, we can give recommendations to the member states, but at this current geopolitical context, we need to do much more. therefore, we propose to amend the renewable energy directive to give member states the right tools to significantly accelerate the permitting process. to do this, we introduce ‘go to’ areas, where permitting procedures would be done much faster, taking no more than one year. and let me be clear, this will not come at the expense of the environment. for solar energy deployment on existing building structures, we are proposing a three month permitting process. with the solar strategy proposed yesterday, we aim to double solar pv capacity by 2025 already. and to ensure the availability of the skilled workforce, we will establish eu large—scale skills partnership. we also want more of the solar panels to be manufactured here, in the eu, and we will launch the european solar pv industry alliance to facilitate that. of course, more efficient use of energy goes hand in hand with cheaper and renewable energy, and there is no cheaper and more secure energy than the one that we do not use. so, with today’s security concerns and energy prices, the case for investing in energy efficiency has never been stronger. while most of the russian gas will be replaced by renewables and savings, 155 bcm of gas cannot be phased out overnight. in the earlier stages of the shift, we need to diversify supplies to make up this shortfall, and we will need to secure around 50 bcm of lng and 10 bcm of additional pipeline gas annually from non—russian sources. intense work on this has been going on since last autumn, and they have yielded results. so april broke the monthly lng deliveries record again with 12.6 bcm. sustaining this level throughout the year would put us well on track to reach the additional 50 bcm. at the same time, pipeline gas supply from russia went down to 26% of eu gas consumption last month, this april, compared to 40%, which was the level last year, last april. to maintain the momentum, we have set up the eu energy platform to aggregate the demand for those who want to join, to coordinate the use of infrastructure, and reach out to our global partners both for gas and hydrogen. the first regional task force was set up in sofia on 5 may, and others will follow. as a strong signal of support to our close neighbours, the platform will also be open to ukraine, moldova, georgia and the western balkan countries. after joint statements with the united states and canada, the work continues to reach political agreement for lng deliveries also with other partners. speaking of our international partners, yesterday we also adopted our new external energy strategy. russia’s aggression against ukraine has had the unintended consequence of deeper cooperation between the eu and our partners. we intend to build long—term energy partnerships that go beyond the immediate energy security needs, for example, by extending cooperation on gas to renewable hydrogen or tackling methane emissions. as we wean ourselves off russian imports, we want to avoid simply creating another dependency elsewhere. so we will continue to establish partnerships on critical raw materials. the strategy also renews our commitment to ukraine and other close neighbours closely affected by that war. we will continue to provide energy supplies and work towards making electricity trade with ukraine possible in the near future. the commission will also launch the repowerukraine initiative to rebuild a clean and modern energy system after the war. ladies and gentlemen, all these different strands of our work in the end reach the same destination. it is clear that the green transition is the only way to be the masters of the eu energy system, and to provide secure, sustainable and affordable energy for the eu and the world. this remains our ultimate goal. given the urgency and unpredictability of current events, we would need to move quickly to through the co—legislative process, and i’m counting on your support to move this proposal forward. thank you for your attention, and i am looking forward to the questions.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would like to thank, congratulate the european commission on behalf of the epp group and as president of itre, for the launch of the repowereu package. the state of emergency requires emergency measures, as commissioner kadri simson has also mentioned. this morning we concluded the interinstitutional negotiations on gas storage and the european parliament has honoured its promise to act very quickly when an emergency is imminent. by acting together and following the repowereu plan, we will be able to break our energy dependency on russia, while ensuring that energy prices, which are already putting economic pressure on european citizens and businesses, do not rise further. as a representative of the epp, i want to stress that the tools and policies of repowereu also represent great opportunities for economic development through massive investments in renewable energy, hydrogen, energy efficiency. the money for repowereu will come largely from the european union recovery and resilience facility; €20 billion in grants from the sale of co2 allowances and also from the right of member states to transfer from cohesion policy and agricultural policy funds. it is an ambitious but feasible plan that will ensure our energy independence from russia, will also make a major contribution to achieving our climate goals, we will have a cleaner, more efficient energy system, independent of geopolitical games and with more stable and decent prices for citizens and for the european economy.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of any energy policy is security of supply and affordability. first, we must ensure affordable prices. competitive prices can only be achieved by working with all possible partners, rather than by being dependent on one supplier. let's develop our own resources as well. it's the only way to guarantee security and independence. we need diversification, not just replacing one dependency with another. second, we need infrastructure. years ago, we missed the opportunity to build a sustainable gas transmission system. the interconnector between bulgaria and greece is not yet completed and we must quickly correct this mistake. third, european solidarity will once again be key to overcoming this crisis. countries with pipeline reserves will have to show solidarity and help countries like bulgaria whose main supplies are currently cut off. and last but not least, the balanced energy mix that we want to develop from here on out has to be green and sustainable. and the choices before us are unfortunately limited. renewable energy sources and stable base energy capacities in the form of nuclear energy.
mr. chairman, please! thank you commissioner for your proposal for repowereu. but we're also talking about poland and bulgaria today. both countries, let's be honest, can feel safe today, very different from 2006 and 2009. why is that? because we have a common energy market, we have a regulation on the security of gas supply and energy solidarity has been made a legal force. this is a very new situation. also today, an inter-institutional agreement on gas storage was signed, less than two weeks after it was tabled in the european parliament. this is a record and a new historic opportunity for us in the european union to act quickly and efficiently in response to crises. this was also true for covid-19. let's not forget that. so let's learn what's important. it is also important that when we store gas - which is so important for the union and for our security - we do not use gas sources from third country suppliers who are not reliable and use gas as an energy weapon.
mr president, the war must not be an excuse for europe's energy suicide. we've announced a withdrawal from russian gas, and now we're looking for mechanisms to circumvent our own declarations to fit into the new payment schemes. bulgaria is among the most dependent on russian gas countries, which has abandoned russian supplies at its own expense. at the moment we are losing out because we are sticking to the european strategy, and perhaps because of our own naivete. the ideologizing of the green deal must give way to realism. it's irresponsible to repeat the mantra of atom and gas as transitional energy sources while reducing the temperature of hot water and limiting the shower time of citizens. energy independence is an illusion. we're replacing one dependency with another, we're basing our economies on expensive raw materials. we need peace, we need efforts to achieve peace, competitive prices, reliable suppliers and a common policy for the purchase of gas. we need solidarity in action, not in words.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i am afraid i have to start by saying that it was a wrong decision to link the debate on 'repower eu' with the debate on the gas cuts for bulgaria and poland. 'repower eu' is a bold and good initiative, but it is a medium-term one, it does not provide immediate solutions. conversely, the gas cut to bulgaria and poland is an aggressive, coarse measure by the kremlin regime that requires an immediate and political reaction, because it is a political measure. the governments of bulgaria and poland have handled the immediate crisis very well. they have largely coped with the support of neighbouring countries in the framework of european solidarity. however, there was no political reaction at the european commission level beyond words. and today we had to have a debate mainly on this subject, because finland is already threatened, the czech republic, slovakia and other european countries are threatened.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the repowereu package is a welcome opening, it is through energy policy that we can influence russia's war in ukraine. however, the package itself is not very new: the increase in renewable energy sources and the improvement in energy efficiency are based on the fit for 55 readiness package already being legislated. it is important to continue the sensible updating of the red and the eed renewable energy directives now under way, without unduly restricting any effective means already in place to cut emissions. it is good that the commission identifies the role of biogas in cutting emissions in the repowereu communication. similarly, the red reform should not further restrict the sustainable use of the eu's main renewable energy source, biomass, especially now that we need more european clean energy sources to replace russian fossil energy. the same applies to nuclear power to increase security of supply. the repowereu proposal to speed up the authorisation process for renewable energy projects is also good and member states should now urgently implement this at national level. the increase in the energy efficiency targets of the repowereu package is well-intended, and citizens should be encouraged to take energy-saving measures. at the same time, we must ensure that we do not slow down the energy transition by tightening up already tight targets too much. the electrification of societies and the hydrogen economy are based on the use of clean energy, not on the reduction of energy use. the most effective action that should now be taken immediately, however, is that the council should finally adopt the sixth sanctions package, which would include a ban on russian oil imports into the eu, albeit on a transitional basis. gas should also finally be covered by eu sanctions against russia. ukraine needs all the support we can give it, and the funding of putin's war chest must stop immediately.
in writing. pressure for higher energy costs resulting from the onset of post-pandemic recovery, coupled with vulnerabilities in the european union's security of supply, have made energy a political, economic and social weapon that putin has not hesitated to use in the process of invading ukraine and aggression against the free world. the repowereu plan is a key response to make the eu progressively independent from russian fossil energy, diversify supply sources and focus on the rapid multiplication of the interconnection network, also mobilising strong public and private investment in energy efficiency and in the production, storage and distribution of renewable energy. in addition, regulation of energy markets must be strengthened, based on a european data-sharing area and organisational mechanisms that prevent the price fluctuations and distortions that have occurred in recent months. in particular, a new pricing model must be found to suit the new strategic stakes, reducing the impact of gas prices on electricity prices and taking into account, in the solidarity response, the different types of territorial and social vulnerabilities that coexist in the european area.
mr president, colleagues, thanks a lot for your patience. i wanted to ask for the presidium to make an inquiry, because yesterday we had a very sad event in the european parliament, on the site of the european parliament, the official site. there was a report published by reporters without borders – the annual report – and then yesterday it was removed. this is one of the first times there is censorship within the official site of the european parliament – i guess because of repression of a foreign government. so please inquire into that.
thank you for that information. we will have a look at this, and inform you.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, just shortly, as i had the honour to state yesterday, the libe committee supports both the substance and the urgent procedure as to this amending regulation of eurojust. so the libe coordinators have mandated me to present shortly the libe position as follows: first, we have to stick to the minimum amendments possible to improve the draft proposal. second, we have included the considerations that were delivered by the european data protection supervisor’s opinion. we have been in informal talks both with the council and the commission. so we have learned that just yesterday coreper agreed to the position that was handed by the libe committee, which means that if we vote positively on this amending regulation of eurojust, that will be the first reading – end of it, because the council has agreed to this position. that will be the final track to make it enter into force. it will be an answer, a swift answer of our determination both to help ukraine and fight against the impunity of all war crimes.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
mr president, i voted for this report as granting candidate status to moldova in line with article 49 of the treaty of the european union on the basis of merit is the right thing to do. the report highlights that moldova has been disproportionately affected by the russian war in neighbouring ukraine due to the arrival of more than 450 000 ukrainian refugees since the invasion began on 24 february. i commend the humanitarian efforts undertaken by moldova and its government. furthermore, the report calls on the eu to provide more support for the country via new macro—financial assistance, further transport and trade liberalisation measures and continued support for refugee management and humanitarianism. i appreciate what moldova are doing and i look forward to supporting them in every way.
mr president, if even after a pandemic and a war on our borders we do not understand that we must be prepared for a rapid and united response, what credibility can we have in front of the european citizens? volunteers, civil society have borne the brunt of both crises and have mobilized in an exemplary way. in romania, during the pandemic, they donated medical equipment, they brought coffee and food to exhausted medical staff, they took essential groceries to the door of vulnerable people. the same thing happened all over europe. now romanians and all europeans have opened their hearts and homes to ukrainians fleeing putin's bombs. i voted for it. it is our duty to prepare european institutions, funding and procedures to be at least as effective as the efforts of our citizens. i voted for the war criminals to pay for the reconstruction of ukraine from the frozen assets of the russian oligarchs. the putin regime must bear the social and economic burden of the war unleashed by russia, not the european citizens.
a uachtaráin, i welcome that the commission has begun to carry out annual rule of law reviews across the union with member state—specific chapters and i voted in favour of the 2021 report. the eu was founded on respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it should be clear to all that eu membership comes with not only far—reaching benefits, but also responsibilities. there must be no backsliding when it comes to the rule of law, as without it we cannot have a fair and just society. the report provides key information and assessments but also, very importantly, provisions and follow—up and implementation. for example, in the report, parliament commits itself to engaging in regular consultations with the member states’ governments and parliaments on findings of the annual report. the report also touches on the rule of law conditionality regulation. where warranted, we should be ready to trigger the conditionality clauses in relation to european funding – a very important point.
mr president – me again, somewhat similar – i listened to the debate on north macedonia. i think they have a strong case to be more integrated with the european union. they have been sitting more or less on the side—lines hoping that something will happen for a long, long time. in the last mandate, there was very little desire to extend the european union. but i think brexit having happened, the perfect antidote for brexit is the countries who want to join. that’s telling both the brexiteers and others that the european union is a project not for now, but also for the future and we must extend the hand of friendship to those who want to join us. certainly the ukrainian war shows that there is safety in numbers, if nothing else. but of course, there’s also prosperity and respect for human rights. so i look forward to north macedonia becoming part of our family as soon as possible – and that’s the key.
mr president, i voted against the report on macedonia because it is full of contradictory assertions. for example, it is claimed that north macedonia has made consistent progress, while recalling the need to open the archives of the yugoslav secret services and to examine communist crimes. but was 30 years too short for this country to allow this to happen? why haven't the macedonian history books been changed yet? the greatest crime is the doctrine of macedonism itself, which is a doctrine of anti-bulgarianism in constant action. this is a war against bulgarian identity, history, culture and bright historical figures. the report did not condemn this doctrine and it offends the 8 million bulgarian people, it also offends the macedonian bulgarians. north macedonia should fulfill the contract with bulgaria, but it does not. that's why i voted against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted categorically against this report because of the provocative amendment it passed, proposed by the greens with the following text: it encourages north macedonia and bulgaria to resolve their cultural and historical dispute, separately from the accession process, and to allow the organisation of the first intergovernmental conference immediately, as north macedonia has met all the official criteria. that's definitely not true. it has not met all the official criteria, nor is the dispute bilateral. this is about human rights at the very least, and anyone in this room who votes against human rights should be ashamed of themselves. you have dozens, hundreds of documented, proven cases of human rights violations against macedonian citizens with bulgarian national identity. and you all know that thing. there is no way to start negotiations immediately with a country that violates the copenhagen criteria. this was the only meaningful criterion that could be called a 'european value'. and he says that when a country wants to join, it has to respect human rights. and that's not what happens in north macedonia. yes, it is true, macedonism was invented in the kremlin by the communist international and it was imposed by the totalitarian communist power with terror on the macedonian bulgarians. and what's happening here is a disgrace.
mr. chairman, i'm sorry i'm late by about a minute and a half. i voted against it. the colleagues here have said many things. and one of the strangest things, however, in macedonia, which has not met absolutely any criteria, i don't know who is telling this thing, is that there are 150 thousand people with bulgarian passports who are proven to be ethnic bulgarians. at the last count, according to the macedonian forgeries, there are 3,000. do you believe that out of 150,000 people only 3,000 said they were bulgarians? the problems there are enormous. i'm on the petitions committee, and i can tell you that a petition came in again two or three weeks ago from bulgarians who are being discriminated against. this is going to be genocide, in my opinion. there no one dares to admit that he is bulgarian anymore, because he will not have a job and will be harassed by the authorities. this country cannot join the european union until it has actually fulfilled the friendship treaty with bulgaria that we signed a long time ago. i have no intention of giving my history to another country.
mr president, i supported the report on albania because it met the criteria, unlike the republic of north macedonia. and there is no obstacle to this country starting accession negotiations with the european union. albania, for example, can and should be an example to be followed in the entire western balkans. in this country the rights of all ethnic groups and all communities other than the albanian population are respected and respected. for this reason, and after the profound reforms that albania has made, there is no reason for it to be stopped. and it can and should start negotiations for membership of the european union. at the very first meeting of the next foreign ministers meeting in the general affairs council, agreement can and must be given to albania to open negotiations for membership of the european union. she's an example and a role model. we were just talking about macedonia. you can see how in albania the government recognized and enforced the rights of the bulgarian minority. and they live together beautifully, with mutual respect. and that's a good example.
mr president, i am on the delegation for the negotiations with albania and i can tell you that albania has fulfilled absolutely everything. unlike macedonia, which we've been talking about. my colleague jambazki has already said that they have also recognised the bulgarian minority. there's absolutely no problems there. i don't understand this one. why should the two countries be bound? why should a country that two years ago had practically done everything now wait for macedonia for the next 20 years to deal with it until it has done something? i can tell you that macedonia will accomplish nothing. a gentleman from the commission came forward and said that in the course of the negotiations these problems would be solved. i can tell you they won't. if we don't take a really firm decision and do something normal so that something can happen in macedonia so that it can become part of the european union. excuse me, but instead of a full member, we're gonna get a tumor. that's what we get for bringing macedonia in.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for this important and useful work, and i do so as an islander and as the representative of an electoral constituency which includes islands where six and a half million european citizens live, citizens who live in disadvantaged conditions despite the fact that a great deal of funds have been given over the years. however, this disadvantage remains. why would you do that? because there is a lack of spending capacity, a lack of human resources capable of managing the processes, a lack of planning and a failure to achieve objectives. so, in my view, the real heart of the matter is the need for european funds and state aid to follow an ad hoc regulation for the islands, through a more direct relationship between the islands themselves and the european commission and a real impact assessment of projects. the islands should be the jewel in the crown of the ecological transition and instead risk being cut off. we know that this problem exists and i really hope that something will be done to ensure that island european citizens are no longer b-class citizens but a-class citizens from now on.
i am convinced, mr president, that our islands are the real, natural, genuine wealth of the european union, the invaluable asset which the european union has unfortunately not yet shown, because it has not yet succeeded in creating an integrated european policy for our islands which can really highlight their comparative advantages and create sources of development, progress and prospects for the islands. we who come from islands are proud of our contribution to the european union. my country, cyprus, which is situated at the south-eastern tip of the european union, is the advanced outpost and could become an energy hub, an energy centre, but at the same time a model for renewable energy sources, and it could also host a european organization, something which the european union has so far denied it. and all of this is not happening at the same speed that it could be if it wasn't an island and it was part of mainland europe. i think it is time - and i congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent work and report - to put our islands at the centre of european union policies and to show that the islands really deserve better treatment from the european union than they have unfortunately received so far.
mr president, dear commissioner, mr omarjee, it’s been said many times that islands and remote areas are probably the regions that need our support the most. some of those areas are so isolated that their economy relies only on agriculture and tourism. two weeks ago, with colleagues from the regional development committee, we visited the remote spanish island of la palma, part of the canaries, where the volcanic eruption at the end of last year caused tremendous damage. 10% of the agricultural area was destroyed, which accounts for about 40% of the gdp of the island, and 7 000 people have been evacuated. the infrastructure has been destroyed and the total cost of the damage was about eur 1.2 billion. the eu has provided eur 5.4 million from the solidarity fund to help the restorations and the renovations of the island. more than eur 1 billion are provided from cohesion policy funds to the canary islands, but they have to be invested appropriately. this is just one example, in the picture i’ve painted, to show you how much the eu actually does matter for those regions. this is just one example why we need to invest more in islands and in remote areas. but it also shows us the necessity of a comprehensive european strategy. we don’t need just emergency measures. we actually need a long—term, comprehensive, common eu strategy for islands and for remote areas.
madam president, the union is about to take a decision on the opening of enlargement negotiations with the western balkans. the argument for starting with the republic of north macedonia is the need for a fast track for ukraine, which is the last in time, but its issue has not been postponed. in the logic of many european leaders, one mistake is an excuse to hasten another mistake, because we all know that neither skopje nor kiev can meet the copenhagen criteria anytime soon. i fear that the rush and the low standards are giving away the unrecognised objective that is a strategy to destroy the union as it is with the obvious intention of transforming it into a hard core and a sanitary periphery. we risk an implosion because of the selfish calculations of political and corporate circles whose eastern policy has failed, and in the context of war now curtail their ambitions to the comfort of their nations. it is a rejection of the ideal of a peaceful and prosperous europe. the union must remain true to its values and rules. sometimes, as françois mitterrand said, the most urgent thing is to wait. this is the moment. the most urgent thing is not to rush.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the epochal challenge of climate neutrality and environmental protection requires global cooperation and we are all called upon to tackle it: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the five star movement has always been fighting for the green deal in italy and europe, making the ecological transition the foundation of its political action. the drastic reduction of emissions by 2030 will have to be achieved by promoting renewables, energy independence from fossil fuels, a fair mechanism that incentivises decarbonisation and helps to innovate industrial and production systems. that is why we welcome the end of the exemptions for waste incineration from the emissions trading scheme, because it will make it less costly to incinerate waste and thus comply with the principles of the circular economy. so, for these transformations to be socially just, we need to provide adequate support for those most affected by energy poverty and mobility. we are talking about targets that are no longer renewable, and therefore we need to accelerate the creation of a future green and resilient economy, from which everyone can reap new opportunities and benefits.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a great country. i think we need to move a little bit out of these ideological positions. european industry is already on the path to decarbonisation. it is also pointless to create a myth here that there are citizens or a younger generation who are against industry, against the economy. our citizens want both. they want change, so to speak, but they are also workers. they want social prosperity. they have a house, they're thinking about how to finance a heat pump that mr. timmermanns mentioned. and on the other hand, we must be clear that the next 22/23 years will be the decisive years for investment. it's not going to happen in eight years, it's going to happen in the next two years. and we do so on the condition that there is a war in europe. we have difficult conditions. we still do not have a deep european internal market in energy. we need to be clear that bridge technologies and technological flexibility are the answers. and we shouldn't make ourselves worse than we are. the commission has put forward a proposal. i think it's a good idea to share the ambition. but we have to be aware of the fact that we also have to find ways of how. and in that respect, i think that what has been proposed and what has been discussed in the committee on industry and what has, interestingly, found majorities across the political parties is the right way forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that is why we need the compromise. we're on the right track. but we must be realistic and not get into ideological disputes.
madam president, commissioner, tomorrow we have perhaps the most important vote of this term. the most important vote on how we're going to transform the european economy so that we can achieve our climate goals. but as we talk about climate neutrality and emission reductions, many of the poorest citizens of the member states are wondering whether they will have a job tomorrow, how they will pay their electricity bills and how they will meet their basic living costs. for these people, the green deal is synonymous with uncertainty, with a vague change that will make them poorer than they are. they don't consider buying an electric car and solar panels because even insulating their homes is an investment that they have to save for years. let's not forget these people as we pave the way for change today, shaping the laws by which it will happen. let's not let the poor get poorer. and i am convinced that achieving climate goals should not be at the expense of the most vulnerable, their incomes and their jobs. i also hope that the social fund for climate will be the guarantor of this. it should allow all european citizens to benefit from the funds that climate policies will generate. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. as a social democrat, i am pleased that we have been able to reach a compromise whereby a large part of these revenues will be directed towards energy efficiency measures, investment in mobility, zero emissions and reducing the number of vulnerable households. and as a representative of eastern europe, i call on our governments to step up their actions in a way that will not only accelerate the energy transition, but also make it efficient and fair for all.
madam president, i’m so tired of people telling me that we need to act on climate change in order to care for future generations, that we need to replace our fossil energy by 2050 in order to promise a better future for our children. well, i will not likely retire until 2060. that means that the 2050 targets are to be met when i will still be around, and this is within my generation. we need to act here and now on climate change, and we need to do it within my generation. we need to do it now. and the eu emission trading scheme is the world’s most powerful climate tool that we have to combat fossil energy, and we really need to cherish that. but we also need to step up our game and we need to take it to the next level. and as negotiator for renew, i’m therefore extremely proud of what we present to you today, because we need our emissions trading scheme to be the global example and to step up, and when both the left and the right have been in doubt, wanting to lower the ambitions, we in renew have stepped up. we need to step up on the ambition level and that’s why we propose to raise the speed of emission reductions. we need to step up on the emissions covered, and that’s why we propose to include more sectors. we need to step up the investments in green technology, and that’s why we proposed a climate investment fund. we need new energy in europe and we need to step up on all levels. vi behöver ny energi till europa och vi behöver skärpning på alla plan. (talaren godtog att svara på ett inlägg ("blått kort"))
(blue card) sweden democrats, you are not proposing that the emissions trading system should apply to the transport sector. that means that the cost is only put on the swedish drivers. we have the highest co2 taxes on petrol and diesel in europe. we pay high prices, but we do not do it together with the rest of europe. that is why the transport sector must enter the emissions trading system, so that all drivers do their homework and so that we collectively reduce emissions from the transport sector. that is why, jessica stegrud, the transport sector must enter the emissions trading system, but the sweden democrats will say no to that.
madam chairman, i believe mr. timmermans has escaped. mr. timmermans, whom i don't see, your package of "targeted 55" is a pure and simple plan to destroy small and medium-sized businesses. the social climate fund is a pain in the ass. it's a communist scheme that takes money from the rich according to you, to give it to the poor according to you. you'll destroy the employers, and the money won't be enough to help the people who really need it. tying the fund to the main emissions trading scheme cuts the budget to a point of utter uselessness. and you never once mention the energy crisis because of the war in ukraine. how many energy poor did she produce? there's no money for them either. as a speaker for the ecr, i tried to balance this otherwise infinitely necessary mechanism for all of us. unfortunately, here, sick ambition has prevailed over common sense. your ambition, mr. timmermans, will break the backbone of the european economy and produce an incredible number of poor and unemployed - tens of millions.
mr. president, i would like to the chairman, mr the vice-president of the commission, mrs minister, today is an important day for the future of the european union. prepared for objective 55 is an unprecedented package of legislation to protect the environment and promote a green economy. i'll support the proposals for environmental transition and social justice. the social climate fund will provide support to vulnerable households, transport users and micro-enterprises to cope with the impact of rising energy and fuel prices and costs. a key factor in this regard will be national plans, in which countries should provide for adequate measures and investments. only then will we achieve sustainable economic growth and ensure a just transition in which no one is left behind. in the context of today's overlapping crises, policies to tackle energy poverty and mobile poverty are a decisive step towards a better future.
mr president, mr president of the council, vice president, madam secretary, tomorrow is the toughest vote we've ever had, and maybe not just on the green deal. why is it the hardest? so we have a consensus on reducing our dependence on fossil fuel imports. we have a consensus to reduce emissions, we have a consensus to increase investment in new technologies, but at the same time we have neither a consensus nor, i would say, a political mandate to accelerate inflation and increase the bills of the citizens of the european union. and here's the question: is balance possible? is it possible to strike a balance between our climate ambition and common market sense? is it possible to strike a balance between our climate ambition and our anti-inflation policy? and the answer is yes. balance is possible. it's in the details of the amendments we're voting on tomorrow, and it's our personal responsibility to check that detail very carefully. and that's why it's so hard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there is only one process on this planet that captures carbon dioxide, stores the carbon, and releases the oxygen back into the atmosphere: photosynthesis. wherever there are plants, trees, algae breathing, there is also active climate action. so we have to make sure that on this planet of ours, plants grow and the carbon they store is stored. and agriculture and forestry play a very important role in this. i think we need to stop portraying agriculture and forestry as climate sinners, and instead look at the different ways in which agriculture and forestry can make an active, positive contribution. trees must be allowed to grow, wood must be used, cement and steel must be replaced. permanent plants must be allowed to grow. animals that graze stimulate growth, so meat and milk can be produced sustainably. in the form of carbon farming - i hope we get a proposal soon - additional humus can be stored in the soil. and that is why i believe we do not need many new bans and many new rules, we just need sensible incentives so that agriculture can play its part.
mr president, commissioner, the greenhouse gas emissions from road transport have significantly increased since 1990, and 70% of those emissions are coming from cars and vans. with fit for 55 we have to show how the transport sector will reduce these emissions. therefore we need to strengthen co2 emission targets. some of you may begin to debate if the market is ready. however, whether the market will shift to zero—emissions vehicles is no longer a question. this is a reality. and you can see that practically all automobile manufacturers are moving in this direction now. as legislators, we should support the markets’ choice of direction by providing clarity, certainty and predictability. any delays might put the eu automotive industry at risk of losing technological leadership if it does not invest quickly enough, as well as losing market share in the eu market and failing to be a leader in the fast—growing new market of zero—emissions vehicles on global markets. regarding the affordability, strengthened targets are the primary measures to effectively increase the investments in the supply of zero—emission vehicles and make them affordable for everyone. in the long run, consumers – both first— and second—hand vehicle owners – will benefit from a market reduction in the total cost of car ownership, as they will pay much less for fuelling and maintaining their vehicles. therefore the sooner these vehicles become available on the second—hand market, the sooner the benefits for lower—income groups will materialise. in other words, if we keep the targets lower, these vehicles will not be sold on the second—hand market, so they will not be affordable for lower—income groups.
madam president, the kremlin regime has taken the european culture of peace as indecisiveness. and the aggression started. and our response has been inadequate for a long time. if ukraine had been granted candidate status earlier, if nato had said that this country would become a member of nato, maybe russia would not have started the war. but right now, winning is the most important thing. peace always comes after victory, and victory requires weapons and harsh sanctions. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders is a good one. but we must be very careful not to rush into the european union countries that could prove to be trojan horses for moscow. and an apology. unfortunately, the bulgarian government refused to provide weapons to ukraine.
mr president, two metaphors for today: one positive and one negative. the council's representatives' trains have been delayed, and the fact is that the council has been missing trains for years: trains to solve problems more efficiently and more quickly. the positive part and the metaphor today is that you've arrived on time and this is the important thing: you've arrived on time. beyond each one's ideological biases, beyond each one's territorial origins, we must think in geopolitical terms. that is why we need a convention, not because of ideological obsessions, territorial obsessions. on the most serious issues, it makes no sense for a single country to be able to block the decisions of the union, because it weakens us, immobilizes us and makes us lose credibility. in an age of digitization, artificial intelligence, hybrid attacks, war at the door, we can't be foolish. we have to think in geopolitical terms. that is why we must break the taboo of not having a convention or of not being able to touch the rules of the treaty. it is about having more agile, more effective rules and solving problems for all of us. yes to the convention.
mr. chairman, colleagues, it is with great and pleasant surprise that i have learned that you are interested and very much in defending democracy. that's very nice. only yesterday, when you were given a lesson in democracy, when your green madness in the form of the green deal was rejected, you all suddenly stopped being democrats and demanded a vote again. what double standard? when something gets you off, democracy is good. when it doesn't get rid of you, it's not good, you want it to vote again, to change. because of this hypocrisy, this double standard, your proposed reform will be and is a complete failure. it was represented by this man who was shouting here, screaming at the end of the conference on the future of europe for a minute. you're offering us an alliance of double standards, of bureaucracy, of a left-liberal dictatorship. we have lived under a bolshevik dictatorship and we do not want a new soviet union. what you're proposing is a new soviet union, where you make decisions by majority vote, and then you impose them on the rest of us. no, it won't. what we want is a union of sovereign states. we want a union based on the idea of a european community, of equality, freedom, sovereignty. we want our own alliance, of traditional families. we want the union of the nation states and the nations. this is our union - the europe of the fatherlands.
mr president, the crises have shown that we need new powers in all areas. we need more european union, not less, but to have more, we need to deepen political integration. this is an objective which cannot be achieved without changes to the lisbon treaty. what those changes are, the convention will decide. it's up to us to give him a chance to be called. but we shouldn't decorate contracts with a lot of toys like christmas trees, because we risk the tree falling down at some point. we've been talking about the right of legislative initiative for a long time. it's got to happen. the question of abolishing the unanimity requirement in the council is also crucial. a decision like this will make our union more operational and dynamic. most decisions need to be taken by qualified majority. russia's military aggression has added new arguments to this necessity. unanimity should be reserved only for the admission of new member states and for any changes to the basic principles. only these three things - agreement on new common european policies, legislative initiative and the abolition of the unanimity requirement - will make the convention worth convening.
mr. chairman, i'm going to draw attention to something that you're all missing. this is called "domestic logging" or "illegal logging". these are people who can't get warm in the winter, and in some settlements in bulgaria, they started cutting down the parks in the settlements. i think this is a result of the european union's energy policy. i can tell you that gas prices in just six months last year before the war in ukraine went up 300 percent in bulgaria. i understand these people are gonna cut. maybe there should be some kind of common energy policy and there should be some kind of protection for the population. i don't justify them destroying the trees. but i'm beginning to understand them. soon no one will be able to pay their electricity bills. thanks to the green deal.
mr president, i think poland is a sovereign country which has presented its plan, which, as far as i remember, has been approved by the commission. and i think that's normal, because obviously any government should know best what its people's problems are. and i don't understand why it's these political insinuations that impose some strange opinions about which country has the rule of law and which doesn't. i can tell you that there are no countries in the european union where the rule of law does not exist. right now you're trying to force bulgaria to lift its veto so that a country like macedonia, which has no rule of law, can enter. that's what i'm trying to tell you. so this is where some strange political and geopolitical, as my colleague wallace said, conversations start, in which you will find us a country that has done disgusting things to the bulgarians in macedonia.
a uachtaráin, i voted in favour of this report. the international procurement instrument will enable the european commission to launch consultations with third countries regarding procurement market access in order to facilitate better access for eu firms. the instrument empowers the eu to restrict access to the eu’s procurement market if third—country consultations do not improve market access for eu firms. i was happy to support the compromise reached, as i believe that it will be an effective but balanced addition to the eu’s trade toolbox. the eu procurement market is one of the biggest and most competitive markets in the world, therefore it is vital to ensure market access reciprocity with our trading partners. i complement mr caspary and the others who worked on this very important file.
mr. chairman, this may sound incredible, but i voted yes. although i have some concerns about this configuration of parliament, i hope it will be good for democracy and i think it is normal for parliament to have the right of legislative initiative. i think that's logical and normal, because we're the closest to the citizens. neither the council nor the commission meet with citizens. i can sign with both hands, and i think we all know how well they know the voters in the european union, unlike us. and i think it's only natural that we can offer things that they're interested in. because of the things i see in this parliament, a lot of them seem to be made up by people from another planet, by people who have no connection with reality, and so i think it's right to support it.
mr president, i voted absolutely against the idea of a convention to change the treaties because this idea of changing the treaties is profoundly anti-democratic and it aims at one thing only: a violent, artificial, false federalisation which will take away the sovereignty of the member states and put it in the hands of anonymous bureaucrats, elected by no one, irresponsible and accountable to no one, who will impose on us the folly that changes the lives of our societies. we affirm, believe and support the idea that each nation-state should be responsible for the issues of culture, education and the family. the change in treaties will mean that the sovereignty of the rational states will be taken away, represented by people who are elected by their nation to make important decisions. i can give an example of this with the republic of north macedonia. if you had this tool, by now you would have let go of a state built on anti-bulgarian ideology, anthropophobic, language of hatred directed against bulgarians in macedonia. you would have let her negotiate for europe by now. this is not acceptable.
mr president, i join my colleague, mr jambazki, in his opinion and i also voted against. i think it's unacceptable. by the way, at the conference on the future of europe, there were specifically selected, if you don't know, certain ngos that are pro-federalism. the treaties say it's a union of sovereign states. i don't think that should change. i think the consensus should stay. a majority of countries cannot decide the fate of other countries and cannot impose any rules and norms that are against their national interest. i liked that there was a "unity in diversity". now i understand that this principle will be violated, and france will want to make a nice little empire in the style of the soviet union. the union of soviet republics is what you're offering us right now. that's why i voted against it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. our flagship european programme erasmus+ is a european flagship project, but there are still young people who have never heard of it. we need to improve this, because inclusion is the key to a successful erasmus+ programme. all young people within the eu, regardless of their nationality or ethnicity, but especially those from disadvantaged, marginalised groups such as people with roma backgrounds, must have access to and be able to participate in this programme. small organisations, especially self-organisations, have an important role to play here, because they have contact with young people. this is precious. in addition, these organisations need more support - not only financial but also administrative. this one needs to be simplified. the report does refer to the past programme period, but an analysis of shortcomings is useful to know what we need to do even better in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, it's a pleasure to see you, dear mrs. gabriel. i personally support the erasmus+ programme and the opportunities it offers. of course, we must pay special attention to those who are among us but have real barriers in their lives. i am talking about people with disabilities, those who are from hard-to-reach places, of course, and from the poorest regions, and that is where all efforts should be directed. unfortunately, however, there are some strange things said from time to time that have no bearing on access to erasmus, but lead to absolute discrimination, in my understanding, and i have never heard of anyone being selected for their sexual orientation or ethnicity in any erasmus programme. i'm hearing that for the first time in this room. it's some kind of artistic fiction. it's what the movies usually call this thing. there is also another attempt to interfere in national education policies in order to instill a european identity, which i do not understand what it means, and the so-called sexual diversity. and that's being controlled by some so-called induction officers. this is money thrown to the wind, as they say in bulgarian, and i think that these funds should be directed really to culture and education, which have suffered the most from the health crisis, the economic crisis, and now the geopolitical crisis.
the president voted in favour of a resolution on the future of the european union. the main concern in all member states is that the environment should be encouraged, and that this should be an important concern. this is a huge part of the planning process in ireland and therefore, it is much more difficult to do it every year than in other countries. it is vital that sustainable management is put in place around the european union for the forests and forests of the world in the years ahead. it will be even more important to achieve our other biodiversity and climate change goals. the commission and the member states must do something now to tackle the problem of unemployment and to prevent it from becoming more widespread in the years ahead.
madam president, i voted against and i will try to explain very briefly what is at stake. there's not a word in this report about the reason for the illegal logging. that's the first thing. i can tell you the reason, though. this is the wrong energy policy of the european union. besides, there's no word on the so-called home-cutting. these are ordinary citizens who have nothing to warm themselves with and are already starting to cut in parks and gardens. i'm not exonerating them, but i think this report is absolutely incomplete and essentially it should be about the underlying reasons for something to happen, not just some people being convicted for doing it.
madam president, i am one of the shadow rapporteurs on this report and i very much like the erasmus+ programme, but i can tell you that i voted against it. there are many good things in this report, like special attention to people with disabilities or to those who are from remote areas, but tell me where in europe you've ever heard of a school or a university where you're selected on the basis of sexual orientation or on the basis of ethnicity. this thing never existed and it's completely unnecessary to include it in this report. i don't understand why there should be any privileged groups, because that leads, in my understanding, to a huge discrimination of the majority. furthermore, it is a waste of money that could be diverted to something much more sensible in the field of culture and education. these are the two sectors that always suffer the most in a crisis, whether it's health, whether it's geopolitical, whether it's economic.
the president, the vice-president and the president of the commission shall vote on the european parliament's resolution on the future of the islands of europe. the european union is not going to be a member until 2024. i strongly believe that the agreement reached in august is the one that will give us the right to have our own future on the global coast of the august islands. i wrote to the commission to ask it to study the matter. the eu institutions should work together to build a stronger european community and to ensure that we have a future, and if we do, we should be able to do so.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, political prosecutions in the baltic states are going on. six years for investigative journalism – this was the verdict of the lithuanian appeal court against algirdas paleckis at the beginning of may. in my country, latvia, a number of politically motivated arrests of political activists and even people being far from politics, took place during the last two months. recently, vladimir linderman, a well-known journalist and politician, was arrested in riga. the effects of degrading attitudes against him are known – a 60-year-old man with a number of chronic diseases who was not allowed to use life-saving medicines, which needed to be taken constantly. more than 40 criminal cases were initiated on the basis of a recently added section of the criminal law: ‘assistance to a foreign state in action directed against the republic of latvia’. this phenomenon cannot be called an obsession on the search for enemies of the state or spies. this, on the contrary, is an artificial labelling of people as kremlin agents in order to intimidate the entire russian-speaking part of the population.
madam president, i will continue the line of tatjana ždanoka. ‘collateral damage’ – i’ve heard this expression pretty often after the beginning of the russian aggression against ukraine. ‘collateral damage’ was said about russian human rights defenders, who now have huge difficulties with visas, with status, with payments, as they are somehow ‘suspicious’. ‘collateral damage’ to russian students who are not allowed any more to enter into the universities of my home country, estonia. probably this is our way of promoting european values! ‘collateral damage’ to teachers in the remaining russian schools of estonia and latvia. we went so far that in the heat of the discussion about the closure of russian education, the biggest estonian newspaper called them a ‘purulent tumour’. and guess what – nothing happened! the aggression against ukraine kind of legitimises aggression against russian—speaking europeans. but colleagues, language is just language. it is a set of cases and morphemes, grammatical structure, a means of communication. i would like to urge the commission not to turn a blind eye to the increasing discrimination against russian speakers in europe. this blindness will cost us a lot.
the uncertain situation we are in since the war in ukraine began requires us to think about our energy security. we must develop our own technologies and produce the energy we need within the european union. the european nuclear sector is one of the most innovative in the world. we must preserve our positions and the european union's high-quality jobs in this strategic sector. the objectives of achieving a zero-carbon economy are clear, but we need a base capacity to ensure the stability of europe's energy system. we still do not have the technological capacity to rely solely on renewable energy, and this is clear from the reopening of coal-fired power plants in germany and austria. nuclear energy will ensure affordable electricity and sufficient electricity for european citizens and industry. pragmatic policies should be the guiding principle. the european citizens expect us to take action. we need to vote against the proposed rejection of the delegated act in the taxonomy.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the report on the eu action plan for the social economy is a roadmap and includes social growth, stimulation, social inclusion, innovation and entrepreneurship for the benefit of all. by supporting the social economy, we support the reduction of inequalities, the strengthening of a sense of community, the reduction of depopulation, and the strengthening and development of rural areas. the social economy model has great potential to achieve quality employment for vulnerable groups. this is the foundation for a more sustainable economy where no one is left behind. action at eu and national level to promote the development of the social economy is of particular importance in the current period of impending crises. states need to support the social economy players. they should develop horizontal policies and programmes for social innovation, for enhancing development, for increasing the accessibility of services for the most vulnerable, including persons with disabilities and the elderly.
blue-card speech. – mr president, colleague tóth, you referred to electricity prices, which is really the most pressing issue at the moment. but the delegated act, in its part about gas, is all about gas-generation electricity. and isn’t it exactly electricity produced from gas that led us where we are with electricity prices? i think it’s the main driver of the peak of electricity prices at the end of the previous year and during this year now.
mr president, commissioner, the vote on the delegated act we are voting on tomorrow will not be a vote for or against nuclear energy, it will not be a vote for or against gas. both energy sources will certainly be part of our mix for the next ten years. however, i believe it is wrong to say that this delegated act will reduce energy prices and consumption levels, because it is in fact an investment instrument. and any investment expert knows exactly that for a product to be bought, the investor must have the necessary confidence. werner hoyer, president of the eib, says that this will not be the case, and the investment funds are also saying it clearly: we need confidence. in addition, poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, belgium, austria and portugal will not be eligible to finance their gas industry. nuclear power is even less important, with only three member states able to benefit from it. i am of the opinion that this delegated act does not reduce the problem of energy dependency and energy prices. it is obsolete before it even comes into force.
mr president, to save time. i will not discuss nuclear. furthermore, i think nuclear has a place in the future of our energy, but definitely has no place in this package with gas. so what about gas? there are certainly some gas projects that we could consider sustainable, namely those who are leading to less dependence on foreign suppliers. but we do not see those in this delegated act. what we see in the delegated act is the very technology which led us to today’s prices of electricity and which led us, especially through turkstream and nord stream 1 and 2, to the dramatic dependence on the russian supply that we have now. so, at the end of the day, i am not against nuclear and i am not against sustainable gas projects. but i see, frankly, no reason to support the delegated act as it is.
mr president, this is not a debate about values, this is not a debate for or against the green goals that we all have set for ourselves and around which we have all united. this is a debate on whether to allow temporary financing for energy sources that are of key importance to european citizens and industry. the question is not whether we will continue to invest in them because we need them, the question is where the funds will come from. can we make it easier for private funding to come in for these projects? will we create a regulatory framework to generate fresh money in the energy sector or will we burden the state's public finances, which are currently limited and need to be directed to tackling more serious problems such as the economic and social crisis? i urge you to vote for the taxonomy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i naturally agree with the general line taken by the rapporteur and thank mr bilczyk and the co-rapporteurs for their work on this report. the report highlights serbia's many weaknesses from the point of view of the union and the integration process, not to mention the context of the war in ukraine and serbia's reaction to it. it contains many valid points. it is difficult to resist the impression that sometimes interference in serbia's internal affairs goes too far, that our concern turns into a moralistic interventionism, not to mention a moralistic imperialism. especially since many of these moral requirements are not met within the union itself - for example, we read in this resolution that it is deplored that the work of the national assembly has been hampered by the lack of a real political debate between the majority and the opposition parties. and do we really have debates in this parliament between groups which have declared themselves to be only pro-european and genuinely pro-european groups such as the ecr? backstage at the most. another example: the resolution rightly criticises serbia for its ties with russia, including military ones, and for not joining the sanctions against russia. but in our criticism, we forget that the eu has been less substantial towards some member states that after 2014 circumvented the eu embargo by selling military equipment to russia despite the sanctions. so let's use the same standards.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, does parliament really want to encourage serbia to join the european union? sometimes when i hear our debates or when i read our texts, i have doubts, because they are texts that are systematically biased, without the nuances that we show when it comes to other countries in the western balkans. the belgrade people are being reprimanded, and the demands are untenable, as they continue to deny the weight of history, ignore the political culture of the country and, above all, ignore the progress made. of course the situation is not satisfactory. we've been told: corruption, civil society being hampered, the media. but progress has been made following our recommendations. i am thinking in particular of the constitutional referendum on the judiciary, the parliamentary elections that were held under good conditions, the fight against conflicts of interest and the new guarantees for the independence of the judiciary. and sometimes i think we should turn to serbia and first of all welcome these developments. because serbia is the biggest country in the balkans. she doesn't need our lessons, she needs our encouragement. so let us show the same kindness to all the countries of the western balkans.
thank you, mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, and my fellow members of parliament. the report before us should be about how the european parliament will help serbia to become a member of the union as soon as possible, but instead it is a report that is more prescriptive, prescriptive and contains unacceptable excesses that only further hamper the country's accession process, call into question the credibility of the eu and alienate the citizens of serbia. this is contrary to the strategic interests of both serbia and the eu. it is incredible that when we see a country at war with the eu, some people fail to see that serbia's accession would strengthen the union's stability. the hungarian government and pro-government mps are fully committed to serbia's accession to the eu. that's why we can't accept this report. we believe that serbia deserves more support and understanding, much more. finally, let me send a warm welcome to her excellency ms ana hrustanović, who is following our debate here in the plenary. (the speaker concluded in a non-official language)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today serbia has finally, three months after the elections last april, announced the official results of the ballot and will be able to work on forming a government from tomorrow. what this executive will have to face in the critical period we are living through are important, complex, as well as urgent decisions, action, together with the process of european integration, which only a responsible and farsighted government can bring to completion. we understand the difficulties and the peculiarities of the historical reasons, we appreciate the efforts already made on reforms, as well as the commitment to take in ukrainian refugees, but it is not enough. we call on the serbian authorities to have courage and to stand unambiguously on the side of the ukrainian people, who have been invaded without justifiable reason and whose sovereignty has been violated. this also means defending the european values of democracy and freedom against russian propaganda, which continues to infiltrate the serbian media in order to subtly influence public opinion. finally, i call on the serbian government to have the courage to reach an agreement that will bring about the complete normalization of relations with its neighbours, an essential step to accelerate progress on the european path. take courage and europe will stand by you to support you.
madam president, we want serbia to be in the european union. we think we have a common european perspective. but we must say that this is no time for concessions on matters of principle and on matters of strategy. the serbian leadership is unfortunately turning a blind eye to russia at a time when the war in ukraine is under way and putin is responsible for destabilizing the whole of europe. the attack by russia on ukraine is also linked to the putin regime, which does not want the wider democratization of neighbouring countries to prevent democracy from reaching russia, and this is important to us. there is also russian influence and russian destabilization in the western balkans. and when we talk about serbia, we are talking about enlargement towards the western balkans. and there's also a tendency for russia to lean on china to deal with international pressure, and we have serbia encouraging the relationship with both russia and china. i think that, with this mix, serbia cannot hope for rapid and positive developments in relation to the european union.
madam president, the countries in the western balkans need a sincere and credible european perspective. from their side, the enlargement countries should show their willingness to adhere to european values, standards and principles. serbia has made considerable progress on its reform agenda, but still has not delivered on a few critical aspects. while facing the security threats in the east of europe, it should be clear that no further integration can happen without clear alignment with our common foreign and security policy. i welcome that the representative of the croatian minority was elected in the recent election to the serbian parliament. however, minority rights of the croatian community in serbia, and especially the status of non-discriminatory use of the croatian language, are still below european standards. this must change. finally, we are still asking serbia for the truth about missing persons from the homeland war in order to move forward and to allow families to grieve with dignity.
madam president, we want serbia to advance on its eu path. instead, serbia’s president vučić is pulling his country away from the european union, even if he says something else. serbia’s leadership chooses regression on the rule of law over pro-european reforms. its handling of this year’s elections demonstrates democracy is in clear peril. and while russia bombs ukrainian hospitals, vučić’s government tried and failed to fly the russian foreign minister out to belgrade. let us be very clear. the eu is serbia’s largest donor. our support has long been steadfast. but we need to change tack; minimising vučić’s clear autocratic tendencies and focusing on investment projects instead is a dead end. accession negotiations with serbia should only continue on two conditions: clear progress on the rule of law and full alignment with our sanctions on russia.
mr president, one bad apple in the basket is a disgrace to all the good fruit. that expression came to mind when i read the report on serbia. serbia is doing exactly what the european union is not doing. it supports russia. serbia has been under russian rule for over a hundred years. that is why serbia has not joined the eu sanctions against russia. serbia is also continuing to fly from belgrade to moscow and has bought a lot of arms from russia, belarus and china. serbia has no interest in the european union. also, the serbian orthodox church is running like a blind horse after the patriarch of the russian orthodox church, kirill. moreover, the ties between the serbian and russian mafias are already very close and intense. in short, let us remain united. this country is definitely not part of the european union.
madam president, serbia's close cooperation with russia, especially in the military sphere, is a threat to european security. even after russia's military aggression against ukraine, pro-kremlin sentiment is still dominant in belgrade. extreme nationalism is also a cause for concern. this non-european policy is also having an impact in neighbouring north macedonia due to the traditional commitment of the political elites, and recently the serbian minister of the interior also spoke about the so-called "serbian world" - a nationalist doctrine, a copy-paste of the "russian world" doctrine, which has nothing to do with the values of european integration. serbia needs to make a real break with the nationalist and kremlin myths, because the european union does not need russian trojan horses.
madam president, commissioner, russia's war has led to record food prices, and the steadily rising price of fertilisers and energy, as well as russia's internal ban on grain exports, are putting at risk the livelihoods of tens of millions of people, especially in the north african countries that rely on wheat imports from russia and ukraine. and yes, europe must oppose by all means the use of food as a weapon and promote alternative transport routes to ukrainian ports, whether through constanta, through the baltic ports, through railway corridors, including the danube river, in order to be able to release those 22-23 million tonnes of cereals destined for export. but at the same time, europe has to think about european producers, especially in ukraine's neighbouring countries like poland, like romania and bulgaria, because they can be seriously affected by cheap, extremely cheap imports of ukrainian cereals, because in this case, if there is a bankruptcy of local producers, europe faces two challenges: one is to help ukraine and the other is to help local european producers.
in writing. i support the union's efforts to facilitate the export of ukrainian agricultural products. this is a huge challenge and it is therefore essential to coordinate and optimise logistics chains in order to introduce new routes and avoid bottlenecks as much as possible. our communication is focused on urgent solutions, but also on medium and long-term measures to better connect and integrate ukraine's infrastructure with the eu's infrastructure. we will work closely with the ukrainian authorities on short- and long-term solutions. in the medium and long term, we will work on this in increasing the infrastructure capacity of the new export corridors and in establishing new infrastructure links within the framework of ukraine's recovery. ukraine's transportation infrastructure is being destroyed and its black sea ports are being blockaded by russia. it is expected to call for new eu initiatives to address transport and logistics costs preventing the export of ukrainian agricultural products, especially wheat, to the world market. it's important to me that we help provide food for the people. the aim of this action plan is to overcome the blockade of ukrainian black sea ports by russia and to ensure that ukraine remains fully integrated into global agricultural markets and continues to contribute to global food security.
mr president, commissioner, just a few days ago, nine people died after a glacier collapsed in the italian alps. record high temperatures have led to droughts unseen in centuries. in sicily, the thermometers showed 57 degrees celsius, in some areas of italy and france there is a water regime, and in the last 24 hours alone, fifty-two forest fires broke out in greece. and what else has to happen before we realize we're on the brink of an apocalypse that we ourselves have caused? greed, the misuse of natural resources, over-consumption have proved deadly. have we not realized that in our desire to have more, we condemn our children to have nothing? and when disaster knocks on the door, emergency measures are imperative. the only salvation is solidarity in giving up resources today so that there can be tomorrow. only radical change can shape the future and actually make it possible.
mr. president, i have to go. she must be a woman. my fellow members of parliament! when we make laws, i think it's extremely important to consider the enforceability of those laws. legislation is good if it's easy to apply and specific enough to give industry and governments the right framework, the right grip. it is well known that the economy needs predictability for the transition. unfortunately, over the past few years, we have seen that solutions that seemed to be all-powerful have turned out to be dead ends. we must not make the same mistakes. in the context of sustainable aviation fuels, we need to avoid the airlines imposing a further cost on passengers. citizens should not pay the price of greening. in my view, a broader and technologically neutral definition of fuel could help avoid further dead ends. let's be careful in the voting today.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the technological progress in the aviation industry has been remarkable over the last 20 years. the engines have reduced emissions by over thirty percent. it's true, emissions increased because traffic increased, because eu citizens traveled. and there's schengen now, there's low-cost, that's why. technological progress will continue in clean sky, but at the same time the only possibility to reduce emissions at the moment is alternative fuels. and i think we need to use all the technical means to have alternative fuels. and the definition that is now being proposed i think is a good definition that respects all the legislation, including lulucf, so there are no problems with that definition. the targets for e-fuels are much higher than those proposed by the commission. we must be realistic and know exactly what can be produced in the union and at the same time know that the price of this fuel is 10 times higher than that of kerosene. we support the targets proposed by the commission. the inclusion, the application of this regulation to all airports without a book and claim system will be impossible, because you cannot apply the regulation to 800 airports without having a system to facilitate the entry of alternative fuels into the market. the aviation fund is necessary because there is a need for investment in this industry.
mr president, sustainable aviation fuel (saf) can reduce the life-cycle carbon footprint of aviation fuel up to 80%, but it currently makes up less than 0.1% of total aviation fuel consumption. by adopting this report, we will substantially increase the amount of saf produced and uplifted, leading to aviation in the eu using at least 85% clean fuels by 2050. we will also increase the number of synthetic aviation fuels up to 22% more in 2050 compared to the commission’s proposal. we will also send a very clear signal to the industry by introducing a binding mandate for synthetic aviation fuels already in 2025. so, the report adopted by the committee on transport and tourism (tran) is a good base for future negotiations with the council, which will deliver the european regulatory framework and foster innovation, production and deployment of sustainable fuels.
mr president, one of the objectives of the european green deal is for the eu to become the first climate neutral continent by 2050. in order to accomplish this, significant changes are required for the european transportation system. innovation will help, but a key solution already exists: a large modal shift towards active mobility, particularly cycling. considering its indisputable environmental benefits as a form of transportation, the eu must prioritise cycling in its climate strategy, dedicate resources to cycling policy and promote its advantages. it is time to implement a real bicycle policy, one that recognises the importance of cycling as a unique and fully-fledged means of transport. a green europe must be a cycling europe, and when we have that, we might get katie melua to sing about cycling in europe as she has done for beijing. finally, i just want to say my name is seán kelly. i am often confused with the great irish professional cyclist sean kelly, which pleases me greatly, especially when it helps me to get through belgian security at speed.
mr kelly, the question is whether you pass through the controls better because of your bicycle or because of your singing!
mr president, commissioner, we must establish a european strategy to promote the use of bicycles that will drive the change from cities of the last century, designed for private vehicles, to what cities of today must be: cities designed for public transport, bicycles and pedestrians. we need to encourage the implementation of sustainable urban mobility plans in all cities in the european union with a significant presence of mobility measures: generation of bike lanes, public bicycle services, intermodality to easily combine public transport with the bicycle, more chargers for electric bicycles... and we must achieve sustainable mobility spaces in which using a bicycle does not involve the risk of being hit by a car, like the one suffered last week by the world champion, alejandro valverde, while training on the roads of my homeland, the region of murcia.
mr. chairman, i just want to draw your attention to the fact that one of the most striking things when it comes to cycling is that these are the biggest offenders on the road. i'll talk very quickly and explain. so, yesterday i was in the pedestrian zone in strasbourg, one of the cyclists hit me, i was on my back, then he pushed me and left. they think they have some sort of exclusive rights. i can give you an even more outrageous example if you want. in sofia, because an ambulance was waiting for a man dying on the fourth floor, because there was no elevator and they had to take him down by hand, he cut all four tires of the ambulance. so i'd really like to see them put the license plates on all the bikes so we can know who's the violator. i'm not talking about the bulgarian guy because i think he's a psychopath.
mr president, this report is certainly important, a negotiation has been attempted to strike a balance between the decarbonisation of the aviation sector and the possibilities of industry. i have always believed, as an engineer, that we have to be realistic when we take measures and do it at the pace that, as the commissioner said today, industry can reach those goals, especially since, of course, the aviation industry in the european union is not the biggest polluter, on the contrary, only 2% is responsible for aviation. i could not support it in the end and i abstained from this report because i do not think it is the optimal solution. i am closer to the commission's view, which is why i hope that the institutional negotiations will achieve a better balance than was achieved today in parliament, and i strongly believe that we, the european parliament, must always take into account when we take decisions the impact of the immediate implementation of our decisions on the sector concerned and, ultimately, on the citizens.
mr president, we voted against this report with conviction because it confirms once again the serious political split in the personality of this house. on the one hand, colleagues say they want to have sustainable fuels, they want to have an eco-component, a recoverable component in aviation fuel. and then you add that component, and it turns out that it comes from resources that are leading to deforestation and loss of forests in a number of countries. and then the green people, everyone in this room and others who came here on their bikes a little while ago, say that that was bad enough. so what's the truth, fellas? which is the truth, after all? either these fuels are green and sustainable or they're not. they can't both be true. by the way, the many regulations, the attempts to impose administratively, people who have never made a nickel in their lives in any job, to impose on others how to do their business, in the case of aviation, lead to what we see today at airports, serious problems.
mr president, i think that this project is not bad in general, especially in its initial version, because there have been some changes that i personally find very troubling. whatever is done with jet fuel, my green colleagues on the right, i would call them taliban, continue to blame the aviation sector for the deforestation of south america, of asia. they're never satisfied with anything, and they'll probably make us wave instead of fly. i understand that it's good for biofuels and hydrogen to become part of sustainable aviation fuels, but the sanctions are simply beyond normal human reason. let there be a little more reason, enough of this green utopia that will only lead to environmental disasters and huge, severe social upheavals.
mr president, i voted for the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud. it is our duty to ensure that european citizens' money is not wasted and does not end up in the accounts of corrupt and organised criminal groups, because european values and principles always deserve to be protected. the rule of law is the foundation of the union and those who do not respect it cannot be rewarded with european funds. we cannot finance those who deliberately take europe's money but act against a united europe. in 2020 alone, 1.5 billion euros went to waste, and now we're spending even more to get it back. plus the work of the european public prosecutor's office, olaf, europol, eurojust, institutions whose budgets, staffing, resources we need to increase. i welcome the support for the establishment of the european green prosecutor, my proposal to combat environmental crime. illegal logging, illegal waste, pollution of air, water, soil costs us enormously, not just billions of euros, but also the health and the future of our children.
mr. chairman, it is always an honor, a pleasure and a very interesting thing to hear from fellow irish communists. communism in ireland is impressive, inspiring, it is clearly more explicit, more genuine communism than that of stalin, lenin, trotsky and all the other soviet communists. but let's get back to the subject we were talking about, the fraud. the fraud is, of course, reprehensible, but we voted against this report not because of our irish communist colleagues, who are genuine communists, because they have not lived in the soviet union and because they have not seen the soviet union. and i wonder why they're in the european parliament, and why they're not in the parliament of sakhalin island, for example, or some other such soviet, nice communist parliament, but they're in the european parliament. it would be interesting to go to the island of colima, there too it would be nice to see. but we voted against this report, lastly, because the rule of law is being used as a political lever.
mr president, then, in general, at first this report seemed to me to make some sense. but in the final text, there started to come a very strange part where it's all about the rule of law and it's another attempt to be a crush on countries that don't think exactly the way the commission thinks. however, you must remember that we are a union of sovereign states. so the term "rule of law" has now become a kind of punishment for states, and that doesn't seem very democratic to me. i am not just talking about poland and hungary, we have already mentioned bulgaria here. i think we should apply it to ireland, where i think there's incredible corruption, but at a high level. or as they say in bulgaria, the fish smell from the head. there may be corruption in bulgaria, but it's at a very, very low level. maybe that's why we're famous for this thing. and by the way, we should also pay attention to our parliament, where we have a huge problem with people who deal in fraud and corruption.
mr president, the past six months have shown us that energy efficiency is a matter of national security. every kilowatt—hour we save can reduce our dependency on outside suppliers. working on the energy performance of buildings directive, i can assure you that the importance of the use of some of the transitional fuels is crucial for us to be able to achieve the climate goals by 2050. i appreciate that the rapporteur on the energy efficiency directive, mr fuglsang, took a pragmatic and realistic approach, combining the strong goals of energy efficiency and, at the same time, allowing for some of the transitional fuels to be used in the short term. we need a realistic assessment of the situation in order to protect the best interests of our citizens. we should never put the consumers in a situation where they have to choose between heating their houses or buying food. the green deal is more ambitious than ever and more needed than ever now, but we should offer solutions which reduce prices and guarantee energy efficiency in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of course i, like virtually everyone who has spoken in today's debate, strongly support the high ambition in the field of energy efficiency. it has this peculiarity that it simultaneously achieves our environmental goals, our economic goals, our energy goals, our geopolitical goals with the same measures. we have no other policy that is so universal. first of all, it has a huge impact on our social goals as a union and as a country, because there's no doubt that low-income people are the ones who suffer the most from high energy bills. but i cannot spare a key criticism of the commission's draft which has been proposed to us and which we are working on, prepared before the inflation crisis. and it's that it doesn't take into account the huge natural market motivation that every business and every household currently has to shift to more efficient consumption or production. we don't really need any extra bureaucratic duties and regulations. what we need are wise and applied financial instruments, nothing more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, earlier this year the bulgarian parliament, on a proposal from democratic bulgaria, almost unanimously adopted a raise in the value added tax threshold, thus helping tens of thousands of bulgarian entrepreneurs to get through the crisis. however, this measure needs to be coordinated with the european commission, which was duly informed in good time but has not been coordinating for almost half a year. because the change in the tax legislation is in the service, again, of tens of thousands of very small and medium-sized bulgarian companies, on the condition that bulgaria has the lowest vat registration threshold, which covers almost every trader around 25 thousand euros. this measure is to enter into force on 1 january 2023 and it is of the utmost urgency that the appropriate coordination be carried out, which i call for.
mr president, europe is behaving more and more like that herd of cattle that was afraid of wolves all its life and was finally eaten by the shepherd. we've taken a hard line with moscow. once we identified the enemy, we neglected other very immediate dangers, like our energy suicide and the social consequences of it. the nuclear power plant in zaporozhye is under artillery fire with the risk of a serious environmental disaster. political correctness prevents us from saying that the responsibility for the plant is shared and no one has the moral right to fire on it. i support the call for an immediate ceasefire, which could have devastating consequences for the continent. a second chernobyl is not just fiction, it's an immediate and hourly risk. in this sense, any military impact on nuclear facilities should be strongly condemned by the union, regardless of who is the perpetrator. the escalation of the conflict requires a sober re-ordering of our priorities. in the war equation, europe must urgently include its own environmental and economic survival.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, it was a pleasure for me to listen to you. it is acknowledged by the whole house that the legislation in front of you is very important. i really hope that your vote tomorrow will reflect the solid position of the parliament and you will have a good compromise on this so that negotiations with the council would be possible and smooth. it is important because it’s an important piece of our energy framework legislation. as transport commissioner, i’m also very eager to state the fact that, for many files in transport, what constitutes renewable fuel is very important. and you know that the challenge we see for our mobility to decarbonise, it means we have to use whatever we can, but in a smart way to deliver enough volumes in the market to ensure that our aviation or road transport or our trains or ships can decarbonise in a sustainable way. and when i say sustainable, i’m thinking an economical, viable approach towards the energy we are using in various sectors, transport included. so i wish you all much success with the vote tomorrow. thank you for your debate and thank you rapporteur for steering this work.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. i think that despite the kind words, it is sometimes quite good to take the commission's hand in the matter. we'll do that on the hydrogen. we will strongly question the commission's delegated act, which is currently under consultation. and we will vote in favour of our own ideas for the production criteria for hydrogen tomorrow, so that this young industry can have a chance in europe. i beg your understanding. the commission is making far too many delegated acts. i would appeal to parliament to support the compromise, to unite behind the 45% and the other compromises. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. in the end we may be left with 50% of the vote and the council is playing cat and mouse with us. so we've brought together the best of all areas, hence the trade-offs. and i would like to ask for your support again and thank all of you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 september 2022. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection to that? that's not the case. the minutes are approved.
the next item on the agenda is question time, and i welcome the vice-president of the commission, mr borrell, to that. the subject of this question time is the present state of the war in ukraine. the question time will last about 60 minutes. the speaking time is: one minute for a question, two minutes for the answer, 30 seconds for a supplementary question and two minutes for the answer. i would point out that a possible supplementary question is admissible only if it is closely related to the main question and does not contain a new question. if you have a question, i would ask you to register your request now by using the spontaneous voice mail function of your voting machine after you have inserted your voting card. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. so i ask you again to put your request now, and we will begin with the first question.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. yes, indeed, the future is not only seen from the military point of view: sooner or later the war will end, then ukraine will have to be rebuilt, and now it must be maintained economically. that is why the president of the commission took the initiative of proposing macrofinancial assistance to ukraine of eur 9 billion, of which eur 1 billion has been disbursed, and the member states have already reached agreement on the possibility of disbursing another eur 5 billion. so that is what we are doing; there are still 3 billion more to be disbursed, which will depend on the member states agreeing to it, so that in total we will have provided that 9 billion of macrofinancial assistance.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy . there is certainly much more to be done, but that is where the international financial institutions are, not just the european union. and ukraine is negotiating with the international monetary fund for financial assistance to enable it to achieve macroeconomic stability. we cannot pretend that we, with the budget we have - which, as you know, is what it is and was approved before the war in ukraine - are replacing the ukrainian state in the provision of all public services. that is why i explained to him that we had decided to disburse 9 billion, that we had only disbursed 1 billion at the moment, that there were still 8 billion to be disbursed and that ukraine was negotiating with the international monetary fund for more macrofinancial assistance. because, of course, with the figures i have given you we are not going to solve all the problems of ukraine, but keeping ukraine economically afloat is vital and that is what we are doing. apart from these 9 billion, there are another 1 200 billion which were already paid before the president committed this aid. now the ukrainian government complains that the speed with which the imf is meeting its requests is not fast enough. we'll do everything we can to make sure it is.
mr high representative, i will ask three questions. the first concerns ukrainian children, who are now particularly vulnerable. they're abducted, they're abused. have you set up any specific follow-up with regard to these child victims? the second question concerns the crime of aggression. we know there was a request for an ad hoc tribunal. what are the main obstacles to the establishment of the court? and the third question is related to the fact that we have to do everything to ensure that putin does not win this war, but above all also that putin does not win the war of ideas. so for that, we have to organize solidarity with the european citizens, for the indirect effects of this war, but also with the countries outside europe who are our allies, who were our allies, but who unfortunately are sometimes convinced by putin's technique. you've been to african countries: what's it like? were you able to convince them and how were you able to convince them, if at all?
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. thanks to the deputy maria arena. well, i haven't been to every african country, i've only been to a few. some of them have a very clear position and have condemned russia in the general assembly. others, however, have not done so; i will not quote them, but some have abstained, and i must tell you that the russian narrative finds an echo that is, without a doubt, related to other periods of history. the soviet union was one of the great supporters of some african countries in the struggle against apartheid or against colonial domination; that is the case and that has remained, it has remained in the world view of many african countries, and that should be an opportunity for us. we have an opportunity to understand our role in the world and not assume that, because we are assisted by reason, others are willing to give it to us automatically. the accusation of double standards, the accusation that 'well, yes, but you too' at other times, in other places, is still in full bloom: more must be done, more active diplomacy must be conducted, more present, more reasoned, not to lecture or assume that we are right, but to win over the minds, because russian propaganda is very, very powerful there. on the creation of an ad hoc tribunal, this is a subject which raises political, legal, financial and practical problems. we should not weaken the central role of the international criminal court and that is why we are now focusing our efforts on supporting mechanisms that can make the icc the basic actor for holding accountable in ukraine. we are thinking about the feasibility of creating a special court or an ad hoc court for this situation, this is still open to debate, but we are realistic and believe that, in any case, we should think about a delegated jurisdiction under ukrainian law, but with elements of international law: if that were possible, we would provide support. and as for the children, the children's situation, you are also absolutely right. we condemn, even before the summer, president putin's decree simplifying the process of granting russian citizenship to ukrainians living in kherson and zaporizhia. this is basically affecting ukrainian children who are not in the care of their parents and disabled people in these regions, so we think that this way of granting citizenship is a way of abusing the defenseless situation of many children who are not, unfortunately for them, under the protection of their families. look, over a thousand children have been injured in ukraine - i'm talking only about the children who have been killed or injured - over a thousand of them. these are the statistics we have, but the real number is certainly much higher. there are many more than these thousand children who have been counted. they also face the risk of violence, including sexual violence, trafficking in persons and the resulting separation of their families, which opens the door to all kinds of abuse. that is why we put it very high on our priority list and condemn the attempt to appropriate ukrainian children by taking advantage of their vulnerable situation.
mr high representative, as regards african countries, thank you very much for meeting a number of them. there is the global gateway strategy, which is now being implemented by the european union, we know that it is a medium-term strategy and we congratulate you on this strategy. but in the short term, we also need to address food price needs, to ensure that these countries and their people are not suffering and thus, as europeans, to meet the imminent needs in these countries. so what is being done about these emergency measures?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the commission has mobilised €600 million to help bring down food prices. we've been bolstering all the exports we can from the ukraine by the black sea. we have supported the united nations in this deal which has been forged thanks also to the intervention of turkey and which has made it possible to export much more by ship than we could do by train. but i would like to make you aware of the magnitude of the problem. when i say that we have mobilised x million euros, i cannot help but automatically divide it by the number of people for whom this aid is intended. and the ratio is a figure that would make us blush, because it is certainly not with that that we can prevent the famines that are stalking millions of people, particularly in africa. i come from the horn of africa, from somalia and from mozambique, and i can assure you that there the combined action of climate change, which causes droughts, and the blocking of food products that have been left in ukraine has caused a situation - i don't want to use words that are already worn out - dramatic, dramatic. in the horn of africa there are millions of people who are being displaced from their lands and are facing a lack of food. they will, but for many they will be late. they'll be late. the blockade of ukrainian ports will cause many deaths and the unblocking will allow some to be saved, but unfortunately there is a structural underlying problem, which is that climate change, which will fundamentally affect the most vulnerable parts of africa, will have effects that we will no longer be able to avoid. and, consequently, we must restructure the economic activity of the population which for centuries lived off agriculture and herding and which will no longer be able to do so because the climate will not allow it. and that is where the european union has an additional commitment. and i must say that africa - and we will see it in sharm el-sheikh, at the next climate conference - has a very good reason to ask for a greater commitment on our part.
mr president, i also thank the vice-president of the european commission for his interest in these matters. my question is about the weapons systems. we know that the ukrainian military is doing quite well lately, but it's a war full of surprises, positive or negative, that will go deeper than it looks. the question is: are we as the european union consistent in the delivery of weapons systems or do we have the same method of approving, for example, 9 billion in financial aid, but there is a delay in disbursing it? because, of course, in the matter of weapons systems, the delay has another dimension, much more dramatic. so what could governments do to further strengthen the ukrainian war effort and what could we as the european parliament do in this direction? and a second question, which relates to russia's equipment: we're putting an embargo on these weapons systems, but have they managed to fill the gap?
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. as you know, for the first time in history, the european union has mobilised its resources at union level to help a country at war. the member states do this, each on their own, but we have never done so before from the union, and i must remind you that it is not from the union budget, it is not from the budget you approve; it is an intergovernmental fund administered by the member states directly, without parliament's involvement, because it is not part of the budget you approve and for which you are accountable. so your choice as members of parliament is limited, but you can think about the future, you can think about how we can continue to feed a defence capacity in ukraine which, unfortunately, i fear will not be needed any time soon. apart from what we do with the european fund, there are the contributions from the member states. and you are right, there are delays, but i do not want to offload my responsibility on anyone. many of the delays are due to the fact that the member states do not agree on the key to repayment of their contributions to the fund, and as long as they do not agree, i cannot operate. we have recently reached agreements which will allow us to speed up repayments. and the next question you have raised seems to me to be important: do our sanctions affect russia's military capability? yes, yes, because, if you saw the guts of a destroyed russian tank on the streets of ukraine, you would see the amount of electronic components made in western countries that are there. i will not name names, but you will see a lot of european technology brands. russia is 45 per cent dependent on european technology; we have already cut that off: two thirds of russian civil aircraft can no longer fly because they are produced in western countries and the embargo, the blockade, prevents them from receiving spare parts. yes, this embargo, which is a peaceful way of acting, is going to have consequences, is already having very serious consequences for russia when it comes to replenishing its enormous losses of military material.
i wanted to ask a more specific question. i am reading in the international press, for example, that north korea is supplying ammunition to russia on a large scale. it is a question of who else supplies russia, and although i have not read anything about it, i would hope that china, for example, has not entered into this logic of military support. if you can give us any information.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. what i can tell you is that china has always held a very clear position on that, which is that it was not going to supply military aid to russia. let north korea do it... north korea is out of our control. but china has always, in the meetings we have had, pointed out that it was not in its plans to supply military aid to russia. if there's any other country that does that, i don't know. but, with regard to china, i can only tell you what the official position of the country, of china, is.
thank you very much. fortunately, all of us, or most of us here, in the house agree that it is ukraine that must win the war and not the fascist regime in moscow. now, at short notice, we do need, of course, to sustain the supply of weapons from the west. and we see there are deliveries, especially also from the united states and britain. if it had been only the europeans, it wouldn’t have been enough for ukraine to survive. now we have established a clearing house on the eu side and in parallel now we had the second ramstein conference where also some commitments were made. my question is, how is that being coordinated? are you in contact in this regard with mr stoltenberg? and especially the question is also how can we encourage, especially our major member states – germany, france, italy, spain – to deliver more, and also especially in my german case, to encourage the german government not to deliver something unilaterally, but take the lead in organising the delivery of tanks that are necessary for ukraine together with other nations. please do it behind the scenes and get the germans where they should be.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – thank you, mr gahler, for your encouragement. en el servicio europeo de acción exterior hemos creado una célula, un centro de coordinación, que recibe las peticiones de ayuda militar del ejército ucraniano y las cruza o las confronta con las propuestas que los estados miembros nos hacen para satisfacer esta demanda, y vemos qué es lo que cada estado miembro hace por su cuenta, para evitar que entre todos hagamos demasiado de una cosa y no bastante de otra. como somos veintisiete, la coordinación no es tan fácil, pero funciona bien y tratamos de evitar duplicaciones, no solo entre nosotros, sino también con nuestros grandes aliados: canadá, el reino unido y los estados unidos. estuve representado en la reunión en la base alemana de ramstein por el responsable de esta célula de coordinación y por el secretario general adjunto de mis servicios, responsable de los temas de seguridad y defensa, el embajador charles fries, y creo que podemos decirles que la coordinación funciona bien, pero, más que eso, hay que aprovechar esta circunstancia en la que ucrania ha lanzado una contraofensiva que está teniendo un éxito mayor de lo esperado incluso por nosotros mismos: eso demuestra que la estrategia que hemos seguido desde el principio es la buena y que hay que continuar aplicándola, que no es el momento de desfallecer. al contrario, es el momento de redoblar nuestros esfuerzos: putin espera que, en el invierno, las democracias débiles, frágiles, no mantengan el apoyo a ucrania por el gas, por el frío, por el coste… hay que mantener el apoyo a ucrania porque, primero, está demostrando que es efectivo. ¿quién hubiera pensado cuando putin lanzó la guerra que seis meses después el ejército ruso estaría a la defensiva o retrocediendo? ¿quién hubiera podido imaginar eso? eso es posible gracias, primero, a su valor y a su compromiso con la defensa de su país, pero también gracias al apoyo que les hemos prestado, porque las guerras se ganan con armas. en enero, cuando visité el dombás, el primer ministro ucraniano me dijo claramente: «esperamos que, si rusia nos ataca, ustedes nos den las armas para que nos podamos defender», y es lo que estamos haciendo. yo quiero aprovechar esta tribuna del parlamento para dirigirme a los ciudadanos europeos y pedirles que no flaqueen en su apoyo a ucrania, que no es el momento de debilitar este apoyo, porque está funcionando y porque lo hemos de mantener para llegar a una situación que permita resolver el conflicto y que respete la integridad territorial y la soberanía de ucrania. (aplausos)
thank you very much for what you said. but mr stoltenberg was quite clear. he said it’s worse when ukraine loses than when we have empty arsenals in our member states. so how to get our member states, the big ones especially, to deliver what they have got and not to think that it’s better to preserve it for their own purpose? because i think one thing is clear, our weapons at home are already directed at russia. they are the enemy. but if we can make it usable for the ukrainians and they can reduce the russian stockpile, then it is also a reduction of the threat towards us. i think it simply as that.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. once again, mr gahler, you are right. but i have limited capabilities. at the moment i am not yet the minister of defence for europe to give instructions to the european armies. at the moment, i have a role as coordinator, and the coordinator depends on the goodwill of the coordinators. that goodwill exists and we must continue to put pressure on all governments to understand that this is a problem of the times, that what can be done today better not be left for tomorrow. because a day's difference, a few weeks' difference, with winter coming - which will make it very difficult to continue military operations - is of fundamental importance. what you ask me to do with the german government, i assure you that i am doing with all the european governments and i am receiving from them a clear willingness to cooperate.
mr high representative, six months into an unjustified and illegal russian aggression on ukraine, we are encouraged very much by the resistance and successful counterattack by the ukrainian army. ukrainians pay the highest price of this war and they need, depend on and deserve our support. however, political, economic and social consequences of the war are felt globally. international reactions to russia’s war and its serious violation of international law have displayed some rifts in the international community. we note with concern that some third countries have been tempted to listen to russia’s manipulative allegations, according to which eu and western sanctions were responsible for food shortages and famine in third countries. my questions: do you see the need to adapt eu policies promoting multilateralism and the rules-based global order? if so, in what way? and finally, which main challenges for eu strategic communications does russia’s war of aggression against ukraine impose?
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. it is a difficult question to answer concretely and succinctly, but, to get to the bottom of it, russia is trying to sell the world the idea that it is our sanctions that are preventing food from reaching importing countries and that it is our sanctions that are raising the price of energy, and we have the obligation, all of us, myself first of course, to explain to the world that this is not so: to begin with, because european sanctions do not affect the export of food products or fertilisers at all, that is not affected at all by our sanctions. could there be cases of what is called in the language of specialists overcompliance, that is, that there are actors who do not want to participate in trade and can do so? it's possible that he did. that there may be cases of market avoidance, that they say no, in that market i do not intervene because it is too complicated? it's also possible. but that will be a special circumstance. i have written to the foreign ministers of all the african countries asking them to tell me what specific problems they have encountered in importing food and fertilisers to help solve them, and there have been very few cases. i'm not saying there's no problem, i'm saying that the problem is not caused by us, the problem is caused by the war, because, of course, if russia says it's dangerous to sail in the black sea in the vicinity of crimea, automatically the insurance prices go up, of course they go up: if someone says there's a danger, the insurer increases the premium and that has an impact on the final price of the goods. and as for the dimension of the multilateral system and the commitments we have with the emerging world, with this thing called the global south -- more and more people are declaring themselves from the global south -- we have to be very aware that that world is asking for more political recognition and more effective engagement on our part -- more political recognition, because our multilateral system does not reflect the distribution of power, not even of population, today, it reflects that of 1945; more political recognition, particularly for africa. there is no african country in the g20. does that make sense? i'm not sure. and more effective commitment. a few days ago there was a conference in europe on the consequences of climate change in africa, and africans rightly complained that there was virtually no senior european leader to participate in it; also that it was held here in europe, and we did not pay enough attention to them. and africa is right, the global south is right, that the problems of climate change are not created by africa, but they are going to be the ones most directly affected, and if we want to be heard and supported, we need to show greater commitment in our efforts. it is not enough to announce a large sum one day if that sum does not start pouring out, euro by euro, and it does arrive, and that is not always the case, madam president, it is not always the case.
thank you for your response. my second question will be a follow—up related to the russian influence in the western balkans, and its effect evidently and for the long time has surpassed disinformation campaigns. are there any new ideas and proposals, possible consequences, being considered in the case of the western balkans, in particular related to the countries and stakeholders where russian influence is the most present, where they are not aligned to our sanctions and the majority of citizens does not support european union accession and support russian aggressions on ukraine instead?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. let me correct myself, because i said earlier that there were no african countries in the g20 and there are. i was referring to the g7. at the g20, my colleague, the south african foreign minister, was with me a few days ago. let me correct myself, lest someone say to me later: the high representative does not know the lesson. the honourable member is also right when he says that the balkans are a fertile ground for the debate of ideas, for the struggle of narratives. and it is true that there are countries in the balkans where russia - and also china, but especially russia - has enormous influence; and, in some countries, support for joining the european union is weak and is declining. i will not say which ones either, but if you list the candidate countries or the european countries which are not within the union and order them by the proportion of support the european union has, you will see that in the balkans there are some where the european union has little support. and russia has a lot. more than we do. you can guess who i'm talking about. and that's partly because of the extraordinary slowness of the adherence process. we must be aware that the speed at which we deal with problems is not compatible with the speed of geopolitical events in our world. and that creates resentment, it creates frustrated expectations, and the gaps are filled in politics. so what we have to do is to redouble our commitment and our efforts and make the declarations follow the action. starting with the countries closest to us, because the struggle of narratives has to be accompanied by a struggle of facts. the facts. discourse is always based on facts and it is not enough to change the discourse if this change is not supported by a change in the facts.
mr. chairman, mr. borrell, the news from ukraine is undoubtedly good. the ukrainian army has begun its liberation campaign and every ukrainian victory brings the day of peace closer. but in that regard, my question is: do you fully support the position of president zelensky, who has stated that peace talks should only be held after the russian troops have been completely pushed out of ukrainian territory and ukraine has established full control over its territory?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i don't know, i don't know when peace negotiations can and should start, which always have to start with a ceasefire. i don't know and i'm not the one to advise the president of ukraine, who is the one facing an invasion. for us, for the european union, the sooner the better, but peace negotiations in war do not happen by chance or by miracle: they happen when circumstances allow it and when the will of the aggressor allows it. so far, all the world political leaders who have gone to speak to mr putin have returned with the same answer: that he does not intend to stop the war until he has achieved his military objectives. and, at the moment, it doesn't look like he's getting any. therefore, i think that rather than asking president zelenskiy, who is the aggressor, we should ask the aggressor when and how he wants to stop the aggression.
but i do have one more question. would you personally, as a diplomat, as a politician, would you accept, would you approve of having peace talks while a russian soldier is on ukrainian soil? don't you think that peace talks should only be held when the aggressor is already outside the territory of ukraine? and in this regard, since there are also voices, especially in the region and in the western balkans, for the lifting of sanctions, i would ask you if you think it is acceptable to talk about any issue with the current president of russia? don't you think that future relations with russia should be discussed only with the next president of russia?
madam president, dear colleagues, the measures that have been proposed by the commission today and will be elaborated tomorrow, especially decoupling of gas and electricity prices and putting a cap on russian energy imports, sound more than reasonable, at least in the short run. but these should be regarded simply as emergency interventions and considered far from sustainable solutions of the strategic problems that we have. we face a crisis with huge long-term implications, which could be compared only to the so—called great inflation back in the 70s, the years when i was born. and, as back then, we need a long-term and market—based economic strategy towards more efficiency, less energy consumption, more savings, more new technologies. and we must acknowledge we as policymakers do not hold the answers, but hopefully the market does.
author. – mr president, on the night of 17 march 2022, boyko borisov, the leader of the bulgarian opposition party gerb, a member of the epp family, was detained for a whole day by the bulgarian police. without a former judge, without a prosecutor involved and without any legal basis. you have to name this act for what it really was: it was an illegal breach of the fundamental principle of the rule of law in bulgaria and in the european union. it was an arbitrary order from the interior minister, a member of the government, who arrested the opposition leader, and he even invited himself the media to witness the arrest as a propaganda action. they know the facts. we are worried about the rule of law situation in bulgaria. these very serious concerns are based on objective and thorough legal assessments. two courts condemned the government action, the last one just three weeks ago. both courts ruled that the detention was illegal. we strongly condemn this unlawful act. and i have to say, we stand behind boyko borisov. his illegal arresting violates our fundamental democratic standards and cannot be tolerated, not in bulgaria and in any eu member state. and despite this clear violation of the rule of law, the left in this house, and that is obvious also now when i look into the ranks of this house, is silent and refuses to debate. and let me be clear. you know… where is sophie in 't veld? where is she? you have so much action every time and i'm ready to answer all questions. but where is sophie in 't veld? where are the left? where are the greens? where are all these people who are everyday insisting rightfully to respect the rule of law? and we speak again about the judgment of two court cases, the outcome of two independent court cases. that is the reality in bulgaria. as the epp group, we are fighting for an eu where every citizen enjoys these fundamental rights and where the rule of law is fully respected. that is our epp thinking. this is not negotiable for us and we are fighting for the rule of law in europe. today more than ever, the epp, not the socialists and others, is the rule of law party of europe. i refer to poland, where donald tusk is in the lead to fight against rule of law breaches from the pis government. romania, in the border for example, when we defended our border towards the belarusian attacks, it was the epp government in lithuania and latvia who opened all frontex officers and the media, the access to the border, not poland. so we are doing our best to respect the rule of law all over europe. we carry the flag of democracy, independent judiciary, freedom and rule of law in our hands, and we fight for the rule of law by true actions. after the detention of boyko borisov, we sent an urgent fact-finding mission to sofia. my dear colleagues monika hohlmeier and jeroen lenaers met with boyko borisov and the involved parties, including the bulgarian prime minister kiril petkov, the minister of the interior and the prosecutor-general. the recommendation was clear. we call for appropriate measures to guarantee the respect of democratic values and the rule of law in bulgaria. this illegal act cannot remain unanswered. when it comes to democracy in europe, you can't have a blind eye on bulgaria. we need the rule of law also there.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, let me start by stressing once more that the rule of law plays a crucial role in our democracy. the rule of law is the guarantor of our most basic rights and freedoms. this is even more essential in the wake of russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. it is also clear that the rule of law is a precondition for the proper functioning of the union, which is based on mutual trust, legal certainty and equality for all in the application of our common rules. our presidency sees the rule of law as a priority. we are committed to continuing the more structured approach followed since 2020 in the framework of the council’s annual dialogue on the rule of law. on the 20th of this month at the general affairs council, we will have a horizontal discussion focusing on the main trends in the area of the rule of law in the union. a fifth country-specific discussion devoted to poland, portugal, romania, slovenia and sweden will then take place in november. i believe that the exchanges conducted in this format allow us to have a real political discussion in a positive and constructive atmosphere of the rule of law challenges faced by member states. this council dialogue facilitates the sharing not only of good practices, but also of critical remarks. both should guide our actions in the most delicate aspects of the rule of law. in this way, we intend to continue to reinforce the instruments that aim to strengthen and promote the rule of law. the commission’s annual rule of law report is a very good basis for the council’s dialogue on these issues, and it contains several recommendations for member states to pursue their reforms or to encourage improvements in the area of the rule of law.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, the eu treaties set out the values and fundamental rights on which our union is founded, these include the rule of law. whereas the commission is a guardian of the treaties, it is not its role to interfere in police investigations in the member states. it is for the competent authorities to carry out such investigations with full respect for the rights of the defendants. in the specific case mentioned today, as we can see from the judgment of the administrative court, this court found that there had been a violation of the law and offered a remedy – the annulment of the detention order. is that maybe the functioning of the rule of law? for the rest, i would limit myself to recalling a few important points on the eu aquis regarding procedural rights, as well as some more general consideration on the situation of the rule of law in bulgaria and our work with the bulgarian authorities. honourable members, the commission attaches great importance to the respect for the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons. based on proposals by the commission, the european union has since 2010 adopted six directives aiming at a high level of fair trial rights in criminal proceedings. these directives cover important procedural rights, including the right to interpretation and translation, the right to information, the right of access to a lawyer, the right to legal aid, and the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence. they also generally apply at the pre-trial stages of the proceedings. of course, it is for the national judicial authorities to address individual allegations of irregularities and where relevant their investigation and appropriate follow up. i can only reassure you that it is the commission’s priority to ensure that member states fully and correctly transpose directives in their national legal system, including bulgaria. in this respect, the commission has opened two infringement proceedings against bulgaria pursuant to article 258 of the treaty and continues to monitor the directive’s correct implementation in bulgaria. second, allow me to recall the findings and recommendations of the 2020 rule of law report and its country chapter dedicated to the situation in bulgaria. the commission is very grateful for the excellent cooperation with bulgaria when it comes to the rule of law. moreover, the commission has welcomed the commitments taken under the recovery and resilience plan as far as the justice system and the anti-corruption framework are concerned. more concretely, as regards the justice system, the government has committed in the context of the bulgarian recovery and resilience plan to establish an effective mechanism for the accountability and criminal liability of the prosecutor general and his/her deputies, as well as a judicial review of prosecutorial decisions not to open an investigation. this will address long—standing concerns referred to in the rule of law reports and in the cooperation and verification mechanisms. nevertheless, there are increasing concerns related to the functioning and composition of the supreme judicial council, while other concerns regarding the absence of regular competitions for the promotion of magistrates, combined with an extensive use of secondments, risk affecting the independence of magistrates. the report also notes that a legislative reform has abolished the specialised judicial authorities while providing for the re-appointment of the relevant magistrates of ordinary courts and prosecution offices with safeguards to protect judicial independence and procedural rights. en nous basant sur les conclusions et l’analyse de ce rapport et des rapports précédents, nous avons inclus trois recommandations relatives à la justice concernant la bulgarie: veiller à ce que des concours ordinaires de promotion soient organisés en temps utile afin d’éviter de pourvoir des postes vacants au moyen de détachements de longue durée de juges, en tenant compte des normes européennes sur le détachement des juges. poursuivre les modifications législatives visant à améliorer le fonctionnement de l’inspection du conseil supérieur de la magistrature et à éviter le risque d’influence politique, notamment en associant les organes judiciaires à la sélection de ses membres. prendre des mesures pour adapter la composition du conseil supérieur de la magistrature en tenant compte des normes européennes sur les conseils de la magistrature. en ce qui concerne le cadre de la lutte contre la corruption, la commission de lutte contre la corruption a poursuivi ses activités avec des réformes envisagées visant à la restructurer afin d’améliorer sa capacité à enquêter sur les affaires de corruption. cependant, un bilan fiable en matière de condamnation définitive dans les affaires de corruption à haut niveau fait toujours défaut. nous avons également deux recommandations qui sont incluses dans le rapport pour mieux lutter contre la corruption, poursuivre la mise en œuvre de mesures visant à améliorer l’intégrité des secteurs spécifiques de l’administration publique, y compris des mesures spécifiquement adaptées à la police et au pouvoir judiciaire, veiller à ce que les réformes institutionnelles de la commission de lutte contre la corruption et des autorités judiciaires spécialisées conduisent à une efficacité accrue des enquêtes et à un bilan solide de poursuites et de décisions définitives dans les affaires de corruption à haut niveau. voilà, monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, ce que je souhaitais vous dire concernant le traitement du dossier qui a été évoqué aujourd’hui, mais également l’attitude que nous continuons à avoir dans la protection et la promotion de l’état de droit à travers les différents instruments et recommandations que je viens d’évoquer.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, six months ago bulgarian opposition leader and former prime minister boyko borisov was arrested, house searched and detained for 24 hours – an opposition leader arrested upon the explicit request of the ruling prime minister, mr petkov, without the involvement of a single judge or prosecutor or any kind of due process. it’s a scandal. and it’s a scandal that it is now confirmed by the court in sofia, which has ruled that the arrest of the former prime minister was factually unfounded, incompatible with the purpose of the law, and it did not meet the standards of lawfulness. in short, it was illegal. the independent judiciary in bulgaria has done its work where the government failed spectacularly to uphold the rule of law and democracy. but it’s not only the bulgarian government that has failed. where were the self-proclaimed rule of law defendants in this house in the past six months? socialists, liberals, greens, the left – nothing but silence. which, let's be honest, is not exactly your default setting. is this your idea of the rule of law – that only the people you politically sympathise with are worthy of its protection? the hypocrisy is truly staggering. where was the commission? commissioner reynders, commissioner jourová were always so outspoken on the rule of law, you have been hiding behind national competences and ongoing investigations in bulgaria. and i’ve listened very carefully to your words, and i can’t help but wondering whether you’re sure you’re at the right debate. i mean, look at the title: illegal detention of the opposition leader in bulgaria. and in the whole speech, you fail to even mention those words. (applause) thank you for proving the point about never being silent, ms daly. the investigations you were hiding behind are concluded, and the result is crystal clear. the house search and the detention were illegal. and are you serious telling us here today that the commission does not care about the illegal detention of an opposition leader in europe? you should be publicly condemning this and i’m asking you concretely to still do so when you come back to this platform.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr. chairman, colleagues, not only three weeks before the early parliamentary elections in bulgaria we are discussing the arrest of former prime minister borisov. the assessment of today's debate is unequivocal - abuse by the epp and gerb of the authority and powers of the european parliament, an unacceptable attempt to influence and interfere in the political processes in an independent member state during an election campaign. on 8 october 2020, in its resolution, the european parliament eloquently and categorically told the truth about borisov's vicious governance model. this also debunked the last myth of european support for the then gerb government, which fell from power seven months later. the symbol of that administration remains precisely the lack of the rule of law, pictures with gold bars and drawers full of euros, illegal wiretaps, vote buying and corruption. the lack of convictions from investigations into corruption and misuse of public funds from that period is also reflected in another report by this institution. the report by the committee on budgetary control is eloquent. there are no investigations, no convictions. yes, there is a decision of the bulgarian court on the illegal arrest of borisov, but this decision is based on formal and procedural reasons, not on substance. let's not use the european parliament to mislead citizens and institutions that there are effective investigations into corruption during the gerb administration, there are none. you're making a ridiculous attempt to use the european institution to rehabilitate a political figure for electoral purposes. this is unacceptable to say the least, and mr weber, today the packed hall of the european parliament whistled at you precisely because for 10 years you have turned a blind eye to borisov and orban.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today is already a rather amazing day for me. normally the left and green sides of this house are very quick to write resolutions. but when it comes to an opposition leader who comes from the conservative side, then suddenly everything is harmless, everything is uncomplicated. then suddenly, what is the principle of the rule of law, commissioner, namely that you have to have arrest warrants, that you have to involve prosecutors, that you have to involve judges, that the police cannot arbitrarily arrest opposition leaders on the orders of the prime minister and the minister of the interior, becomes obsolete. this is usually the case in communist countries, in fascist countries, but not in democratic countries. we do not want to adopt this standard, and we ask that it be applied to all governments. i have not heard anything about that today, commissioner. i have heard some abstract things that i would like to support and that i would like to look at. but what i don't think is right is that whatever your position on bojko borisov, whatever your position on a previous government, whatever your political position, whatever you don't want: i remember that a prime minister, and his minister of the interior, had also announced to me personally that they wanted to give more powers to the police with similar arrests in other areas. usually the political left calls this a police state. we don't want a police state. if it is announced that perhaps all the bulgarian parties agree with each other, they could jointly carry out a judicial reform, which in bulgaria requires a two-thirds majority. that means borisov alone couldn't have changed anything. you need a two-thirds majority, so the parties have to agree with each other, and the reforms have to be agreed upon and implemented together. but this one-sidedness of the procedure! the commission is not going to be able to say that it has been so far behind. the position of the policy coordinator responsible for rule of law matters was not even filled for two years. that means the attention wasn't there.
mr. chairman, 18 days before the parliamentary elections in bulgaria the european parliament is graciously hosting a debate on a case that has long been closed by the bulgarian court. the rights of the arrested leader of the political party gerb were recognized and protected. but that is not the case with the rights of the millions of bulgarian citizens who have been harmed by corruption and lawlessness, the thousands who hope but do not receive quality justice. for years, the european commission has reported every six months with a stereotyped and amorphous report on justice and public order issues. monitoring has been turned into a tool for political influence on domestic policy. the problems were deepening, abuses were multiplying, the party's use of the security agencies in our country is an old anti-democratic practice and borisov had to experience the vices of the system he created himself, to wait until europe finally paid attention to the arbitrariness in the bulgarian institutions. and he's not from yesterday. it is high time brussels took a principled look at the bulgarian problems, to get out of the vicious scheme that patronizes the former rulers as its own people, the people of brussels in sofia. to hear the voices of the people who wanted to close this page in our history. mr. weber, i must disappoint you, but despite this pre-election show, there's no going back.
in writing. the independent court has proven that the detention of the leader of the opposition in bulgaria, boyko borisov, was absolutely illegal. the prime minister kirill petkov personally initiated this illegal action, and its executor became the minister of internal affairs boyko rashkov, a former communist investigator and a deputy from the socialist party. at the same time, hundreds of citizens were illegally detained and interrogated by the police in the country, simply because they were supporters of opposition parties. this is a serious precedent for a member state of the european union. meanwhile, it became clear that with their illegal actions, prime minister petkov and minister raskov were aiming to create an atmosphere of fear of the authorities in society. petkov continues to repeat today that if he returns to power, he will arrest borisov again. but that's what happened under the communist regime in my country. we must therefore condemn all attempts to reinstate the methods and practices of governance that characterized this regime. it is our duty to protect democracy and the rule of law.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, dear rapporteurs, we are all aware how important the cohesion policy is for reducing the gaps between the member states and for helping the most vulnerable regions. the unused resources from the previous programming period were put to great use when we were dealing with the covid-19 crisis. our quick response mobilised additional funding, made the crisis response eligible and allowed higher cofinancing rates. however, we should avoid using the very well filled buckets from the cohesion funds for other potential gaps in other parts of the eu budget. this 8th cohesion report concludes that in 2023, the gdp per capita in less-developed regions would be 26% higher due to the 2014-2020 support from the cohesion policy. we need the current programming period to also be successful if we want to overcome the current consequences of the energy and economic crisis we are facing. i urge the commission and the member states to speed up the adoption of the partnership agreements in the programmes so that our citizens have the support they deserve. last but not least, let me thank our coordinator, constanze krehl, for the hard work she has done on this report. this is one of the last and most memorable pieces of work she’s probably going to do in this parliament, as she’s retiring. i just want to thank you for your commitment and for the more than 30 years’ work you have put into this institution. i’m sure all of us here and all of our colleagues appreciate and respect your work.
madam president, political parties and political foundations are an essential vehicle of democratic life. what we are voting on today will be nothing more than an improvement on a situation which is bound to change profoundly. among the proposed developments, the most interesting are those that respond to the new political situation, such as brexit and the enlargement project, made even more necessary by the war in ukraine. we will now be able to propose to british political parties that they remain full members of our european parties and we will be able to foresee the conditions for the accession or re-accession of new countries to europe through their participation in the life of european political parties. this new regulation will also simplify the functioning of parties, which is important, especially for the smaller european political parties, all of which are essential to the diversity of the political offer made to our citizens. these are interesting developments and we welcome them. how can we imagine that we will continue with such essential bodies for the democratic life of the union, which should be at the forefront, while remaining so far behind on such sensitive issues as gender equality, the fight against corruption or the fight for transparency?
mr. speaker, ladies and gentlemen, may i have your attention? under the guise of strengthening democracy, european parties will soon be able to count on more money from the european union. that is the commission's proposal. this money allows them to launch campaigns in all the european member states, and this completely disconnects the relationships in the member states. worse than that: a so-called 'uncontrollable, independent body' is going to assess whether a political party can interfere with the democratic process, based on vague criteria. and so it can happen that the european socialist party campaigns in a member state, while the ecr party, for example, is banned from participating in the democratic process. under the guise of transparency, full control of all political parties is introduced. transparency is welcome in principle, but control by a politically operative body is not! legislation should be primarily in the interests of the citizen and democracy, and not - as is the case now - in the vested interests of the commission, members of parliament and eurocrats.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, we need a strong european democracy to face the current challenges. this requires us to build a resilient society, rules for fair participation, but also strong and transparent european parties and foundations that can help develop the european political and democratic debate across member states. this regulation enables us to avoid foreign interventions in the european political landscape by defining clearly what can and should be done in order to avoid the situations presented recently by the media of non-transparent financing of populist parties by authoritarian regimes. i have also made the proposal to consolidate european parties by actively promoting their logos and identity at national level, developing strong activist groups across europe and enabling them to campaign on european issues. i take this opportunity to thank all the ps activists that already do that relentlessly across europe and in my country, romania. we are building a european agora and our political parties and foundations are at the core of this new democratic identity.
madam president, vice-president jourová, i would like to welcome the step forward in the process of democratization and parliamentarisation of european political life and the european process, which has always been the aim of a majority in this european parliament. how do you take that step? adopting this decisive regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations. and i would particularly stress, firstly, the european dimension; secondly, adherence to the values and principles which bind european political parties if they want to receive funding in accordance with union law, so that european values cannot be undermined by receiving european funding, and this is a principle which learns from the hard lessons of european history and in the member states, and thirdly, which ensures gender equality, gender balance. we therefore only hope that this first reading will serve to ensure that the legislation is in force at the next elections to this european parliament in 2024: a step forward in the democratisation of the european process.
madam president, commissioner, the quality of the political act depends on how we choose the people, how we know them. obviously, for this, citizens need information, and information is done when you have a budget. they agree to regulate and make transparent the funding of political parties at both national and european level. the problem is that the funding is only for the big parties. new people entering politics, small parties entering politics do not receive money from the budget, neither at national level nor at european level, although they represent some citizens. that is why i strongly believe that we must have this look in the member states, because, after all, the european institutions are equipped, so to speak, with the human resources of the member states. i personally do not agree that small parties, non-parliamentary parties, cannot be funded either at national or european level. we won't be able to improve the political class.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your interventions. as many of you said, these proposals are very important to ensure fair and free elections and an informed and pluralistic political debate without undue interferences. and the new legal framework should be in force in good time ahead of the next elections to the european parliament, as also many of you mentioned. i would like on this place to remind us of the broader context of this legislation, because we are working on an electoral package which should protect our elections and fair political competition in the eu much better and in a much stronger way. let me recall the legislation on political advertising, which seeks to protect the european voters against hidden manipulation and against the attacks through different disinformation campaigns. let me also recall the legislation which should strengthen the aspect of citizenship, which some of you also mentioned, which is presented in the voting and candidacy rights of mobile citizens. some of you also mentioned gender equality and gender balance. this is very important that we introduce this aspect in the legislation for the european political parties, because indeed they should lead by example. the 37% of women in the european parliament, it is still quite a relatively good figure compared with many national parliaments, and especially the governments where we in some cases, in some countries, see hardly any women. so i think that this example we set in the legislation for european political parties is very important. one reaction on the comments on donations: i want to emphasise that donations from outside the eu are and will continue to be fully forbidden. also, i wanted to react to mr lacapelle, who, if i see well, left the room. so in spite of the fact that he is not listening, i would like to ask him not to compare the european union with the soviet union. please do not do that. i lived half of my life in one of the soviet union satellites. believe me, it’s not the same. and you don’t have a clue about that. so please don’t use this comparison. to conclude, the commission recognises the complexity and sensitivity of the file and stands ready to work with the co-legislators to find common ground on the outstanding issues and to ensure the timely delivery of this important piece of legislation. at this moment, however, it reserves position on the content of this report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i try to do my work here in the house as quietly as possible. but today, i was upset about a couple of things. commissioner, you said that the revision was really only about regulating technical aspects. so if that's what this is about, we shouldn't have brought up the big stage here. no, it's not just about changing technical aspects. we have also changed some of the things in the content that are going to change the competitive nature of the parties. and i really want to say that you have chosen this recast - the recast you have chosen, which limits us - because you do not want parliament to touch where you do not want to touch. and in the light of what the commission wants to achieve with the conference on the future of europe and what it announced there, i must say that this was a missed opportunity for legislation. i would also like to say to my colleagues from the other groups that i would have liked to ask mr saryusz-wolski. so mr lebreton has spoken, mr lacapelle is not here again. he said: 'we are not taking part because there are already things being discussed that we do not like. the id faction doesn't even think it's necessary to appoint a shadow reporter and send him to the negotiations. you might think that in a piece of legislation that i don't want at all, there are a few details that i can contribute to make the story better or worse. it has been said here that you are the friends of freedom. you didn't step on the evidence. but you couldn't even prove that you're a friend of the work. and some of your colleagues are already gone. and i should also like to say that my colleague, mr saryusz-wolski, has not been here once and has also made a rather strong statement. parliamentary terms are not enough. i would not have the idea of exposing colleagues who are often prevented from being here in the chamber during a debate because i sometimes do not have time either. but when i'm dealing with legislation and when i have time to speak, i'm there all the time. this also applies to the two green representatives who may be applauding now. the greens have made a point of it, but otherwise they have been part of the compromise. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter. i've never seen a shadow reporter meeting where people are so often represented in so many different ways and not there at all. if you have to bite into every microphone out there, then you have to make sure you can do the work inside. everywhere where people take responsibility - in governments - yes, you can see how thin the paint is. so i am simply not going to take certain things in this house and i am not going to take a remark like that out here when you are standing and passing legislation.
the rapporteur. madam president, i thank the members who have spoken in the context of this report and also following the replies of commissioner jourová. thank you, everyone. our colleague ruiz devesa was right to stress that we must be ready for the 2024 elections, for the 2024 european elections. he is right because this is part of a "democracy package": it is only one piece, but an essential piece. if we want to get the whole package through, we must get this dossier through too. another member, who is no longer in the chamber, would like to know why we are proposing to include the reference to the fundamental values of the european union in this text. well, the answer is very simple: this reference simply reflects respect for the principle of the irreducibility of human dignity. in the last century, millions of europeans were massacred, raped, ill-treated, tortured and gassed because the political powers in place were no longer able to enforce the values which we propose to inscribe in this regulation. for those who believe that this is a long-ago event that could never happen again, i invite you to look at what is happening a few hundred kilometres to the west of this country and you will see that the problem is undeniably topical. the 'never again' principle, moreover, only makes sense if we give ourselves the means to prevent it from happening again, and political parties also have a key role to play in this context. our colleague raphaël glucksmann spoke to us and said: 'i am alerted to the possibility of outside interference in the work of european parties'. i have great respect for our colleague because he is a shining light in this house on the defence of human rights, but i would invite him to ask himself, along with us, whether it would not be appropriate to dare a little more democracy, as willy brandt said at the time. we must dare to be a little more democratic with colleagues who come from countries which subscribe to exactly the same values as ours. i have enough years of experience behind my back in the consultative assembly of the council of europe to know how beneficial this cooperation is.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it is a pleasure to be here and exchange with you on europe’s industrial strategy. please allow me to first thank the european parliament for its support on the direction of the industrial strategy, and thank in particular the work of the itre committee and of its rapporteur, mr berendsen, for a very good contribution to our industrial strategy objectives. enhancing resilience, accelerating green and digital transitions and strengthening europe’s open strategic autonomy are our key pillars. in the current era of perma—crisis with the pandemic, the effects of climate change, and, of course, russia’s war of aggression against ukraine, we can say that these priorities are as valid as ever. it is why, since the may 2021 update of the industrial strategy, our toolbox has grown and our efforts accelerated. the russian invasion of ukraine and current energy crisis accentuate the urgency to tackle europe’s strategic dependencies, phase out dependency on russian fossil fuels and gas, and accelerate our clean energy transition. as you know, the commission has proposed its latest package of emergency measures, including to support all final energy customers to counter the economic fallout on our industries, smes and our citizens. in parallel, we are accelerating the preparation of the european solar industry alliance announced in the eu solar strategy, which will boost domestic capacity and contribute to the faster deployment of clean energy technologies. this is just one example of the several industrial alliances we set in place in strategic sectors such as raw materials, batteries, hydrogen, semiconductors, and zero—emission aviation to mobilise actors along the value chain. such alliances help identify regulatory bottlenecks, mobilise investments, create synergies and build project pipelines. here we have achieved an important progress with concrete results already. in the field of batteries, for example, with 70 major projects, including 20 gigafactories, and in recent years, an investment effort at least three times greater than that of china. in hydrogen too, with 750 projects to be deployed by 2030. in that respect, important projects of european interest in the areas of batteries, micro—electronics and most recently hydrogen are helping to deliver on breakthrough innovation, projecting europe on the green and digital technologies of the future. the latest geopolitical developments have shown that there cannot be a successful green or digital transition without strengthening the resilience of our strategic supply chains. we propose new tools, such as the foreign subsidies instrument to defend a level playing field for our companies. and we are strengthening our trade defence instruments to respond to dumping and unfair competition by third countries and focused on key supply chains too. this includes critical raw materials whose supply we depend on to manufacture the technologies that enable our green and digital transition. our needs for lithium and rare earths are growing continuously alongside our demand for batteries or wind turbines, while our supplies are so heavily concentrated in a handful of countries. we cannot afford this situation on things we so desperately need. our partners have understood it and are stepping up their game. we are not standing still. our action plan in place since 2020 is bringing already tangible results. we identified strategic partnerships with our partner, canada. we identified a pipeline of projects on rare earths and other critical raw materials with our newly created industrial alliance on raw materials. but in light of the new context, and as announced by the president yesterday, we will step up ongoing policies through a mix of actions, including a legislative proposal on critical raw materials. besides raw materials, the commission put a strong focus on semiconductors. they are central to the modern digital economy. without semiconductors, there is no digital or green transition. over decades, europe has under-invested in this strategic sector and become extremely dependent on other world regions. at the same time, europe’s demand for chips is expected to double within the next decade. to overcome this extreme dependency and react to the current semiconductor shortage, the commission proposed the chips act package, which, building on eu strengths, sets out a comprehensive set of measures to ensure the eu security of supply and technological leadership. honourable members, i cannot conclude this brief overview of our industrial strategy without mentioning the single market. it is europe’s most valuable economic asset. the pandemic has shown that when the single market does not work, everyone pays the price – consumers, industrial services, large companies, but also the many smes in the supply chain. that is why the commission continues to work to unlock the full potential of the single market, remove existing barriers and increase its resilience, and why in the coming days the college will propose to put in place a structural solution to enhance crisis preparedness and act decisively in a future crisis. the single market emergency instrument will equip the eu with a toolbox allowing for a rapid and effective response to any future crisis that threatens to hamper the functioning of the single market. honourable members, the challenges to our industry are unique. as a co—legislator, you have a leading role in how we tackle them on all the files i’ve mentioned. but in parallel, we remain fully committed to have you on board in our co-creation, and, i will say, co-implementation method. we will stand ready to report on progress based on key performance indicators on all the areas of our industrial strategy, including transition pathways.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the consumer in respect of the placing on the market of consumer goods. other madam president, madam commissioner, industry is the backbone of our economy. it's central to building an open strategic autonomy. as rapporteur on industrial strategy for the imco commission, i believe it is essential to approach the internal market in a holistic way, combining trade, competition and industrial policies. the eu must boost and complete its internal market and also strengthen the internal market for scientific research and innovation. our industry needs help to overcome the huge investment gap compared to other global competitors, a technology investment gap to bring innovation to market. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. commissioner, we must be courageous in times of crisis. i therefore ask you to introduce quickly a kind of temporary regulatory moratorium to ease the bureaucratic burden on industry, especially smes.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur. it was necessary to include in the new industrial strategy of the union the tran commission's view on the development of a sector as fundamental to our economy as tourism, a sector that is trying to get out of a very difficult situation after the dramatic covid-19 season and despite the skyrocketing costs as a result of the war in ukraine. we reiterated our regret at the lack of sector-specific funding in the multiannual financial framework and nextgenerationeu. in devising this strategy we have made our priorities clear: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of mutual recognition of the quality of medicinal products for human use. we therefore hope that the commission, within the limits of its powers under the treaties and in constant collaboration with the other institutions and stakeholders, will increase its capacity for action and its willingness to support a sector which is strategic for the sustainable growth of our industry.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, perhaps i might express our collective hope that we also get an additional five minutes like the commission. but anyway, madam commissioner, you referred to the gratefulness of the commission for our report. that’s on the one hand true, but on the other hand, what we are doing with that report is simply your job that you didn’t do. and why so? because this parliament is united behind this report, because we had been united behind the green deal. and the green deal included ‘green’ and the ‘deal’. and how to structure the deal was meant to be done by the industrial policy strategy. and the commission brought forward a good idea: the ecosystems, a very specific, sector—wise perception of what is needed – technology pathways, the regulatory framework, infrastructure that differs from sector to sector. and you never delivered. the commission reminds us a little bit like a magician who is pulling one white rabbit out of their hat after the other. but there is no consistency. you regulate, you shoot in a certain direction, you fund and you appeal and whatsoever. but you didn’t deliver on the industrial strategy. we do not have a strategy for technology pathways for the chemical industry. and in the chemical industry you could see you would like to add a reach. we all know that the framework of the chemical industry, that kills them. that’s totally inconsistent what you’re doing. and we did your job. this is not an additional nice report or whatsoever. we are doing your job. so do your job now, because otherwise the transition won’t work, the green deal won’t work, and people do not believe that you have an idea or a plan how it’s going to work.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, our industrial strategy had to be updated several times in the past three years but the trends we identified at the beginning of our work have become even more visible now in the situation we are currently in. i will just underline four main things we have to focus on when we are speaking about the industrial strategy of europe. first of all, our main goal should be to ensure energy security of supply. this is in order to maintain the competitiveness of the whole european economy. second, we have to take measures to normalise energy prices because our small and medium enterprises will not be able to sustain their work if the price of energy keeps on going up or even stays at the level it is now. third, the whole of the eu must strengthen its strategic autonomy and we should start producing as much as possible of the energy we need, the goods we need and the services we need, domestically. and finally, europe needs to invest more in research and development and innovation. we need to do our best to keep high-quality jobs and industrial production within the eu. i am glad we managed to implement all those in the reports because our citizens and industry expect this pragmatic view from our point.
madam president, please. it is good that mrs von der leyen yesterday highlighted the importance of smes and announced a number of new measures affecting them. but, ma'am, we should get to the point, that energy prices have gone so far up that many small businesses will be forced to close. not just manufacturing plants, but micro-enterprises with a few people, like a bakery, where you can't extract four times the electricity because no one can buy four times the cake. we had sme laws, we had sme filters, they didn't make a breakthrough. and in the process, we're adding more and more codes of conduct, reporting obligations, even investigative activities. and we hadn't even talked about the costs of going green and going digital. the misguided sanctions policy is hitting smes hardest, apart from families. the different burden-bearing capacity of european governments creates a situation of inequality between the member states of the union. you can come up with some more wonderful ideas, but by then, there won't be anyone left. sanctions and energy policy should be put in order without delay, because the entrepreneurs will not submit the bill to putin, as mrs von der leyen asked yesterday, but to brussels.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have already said in many speeches and letters to the commission what i am proposing today: no burdens for smes! the commission has not yet taken any action on the matter, and i am afraid that the commission's response has not changed. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. there is no implementation. we have been waiting for the appointment of the sme ombudsman for over three years unfortunately, this has not yet happened. the one-in-one-out principle should apply, but in practice it is two new laws in, one out. by 2030, it's five in, one out. this is not right! a businesswoman with five supermarkets in my area faces electricity bills of one million euros next year. and to address these concerns, the eu is adding new requirements: sustainability reporting, the supply chain directive, new reach tightening, or the absurd requirements for plant protection products. i can't explain this to anyone. these bureaucracies and rules take the breath away from the smes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we need real relief, or i'm gonna be in trouble. otherwise there will soon be no bakers, no farmers and no metal workers. we need a moratorium on the burden on smes now!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for years we have been talking about the need to protect and preserve european smes, which are the essential asset of our economy. small and medium-sized enterprises for which the current energy crisis, inflation, are likely to be lethal, especially after the backlash suffered due to the pandemic. we must therefore act on two elements: the first is to provide urgent answers on energy prices and, in this connection, we welcome the recent proposals on emergency measures to be put in place in the coming months. the second is to work towards an increasingly favourable regulatory framework, which reduces administrative burdens and simplifies bureaucratic procedures. we heard yesterday from president von der leyen about the proposals coming for smes: all right, but let's hurry! we must attract firms, not push them to relocate, and ensure that compliance with high labour and environmental standards becomes an added value and not a threat to their survival.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank the president of the commission for her speech yesterday on small businesses. we welcome the financing initiative with the eib and we also support the proposal for a uniform taxation system. ladies and gentlemen, that is not the problem at the moment. to call the whole thing a relief package is a travesty. the bureaucracy is suffocating smes - yes, even in tax legislation. the problem is the commission's business-as-usual actionism in a crisis. we were promised the one-in-one-out principle in 2019. in 2021, there were 2 207 acts adopted by the commission, 1 087 were repealed. if i'm counting correctly, that's two in, one out. mr gieseke said it: in 2030 we will be at five in, one out. commissioner, you are crushing the companies with which you want to shape the energy transition. war, energy crisis, pandemic -- and you come up with farm bureaucracy, supply chain, csrd, reach, fee transparency and so on. smes do not want more brussels reporting for everything that sounds good. no, we want solutions to energy prices, we want sme and research programmes, we want to support hydrogen start-ups and not crush them with quotas. we are calling for a moratorium on bureaucracy. we are calling for a single reporting tool, where you bring together all reporting obligations and provide a single point of contact for smes, please, directly to the commission president, as well as the sme envoy, who still does not exist after three years. i am sorry, commissioner, but the small and mediumsized businesses no longer feel represented.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the sme sector accounts for the majority of businesses in europe. it employs more than 100 million europeans and represents more than 50% of the eu’s gross domestic product. however, the pandemic hit the sector, as every other sector in our economy was highly affected. high energy costs and lack of materials are posing a great danger to the ability of the sme sector to recover. high prices for energy, high prices for commodities, the shortage of supply, the imbalances in the transport services are putting the smes on the brink of survival. thus we need targeted policies towards the cost management and the measures to improve the energy market prices. the sme relief package and the foreseen revision of the late payment directive that was just announced yesterday in this room are crucial and a step in the right direction. so we have to ensure their quick implementation.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, it is important that we support this interinstitutional agreement on a common european health policy, on a common policy against infectious diseases. it is the only way to protect our most important assets - freedom of movement and the single market - while also protecting union citizens from future health crises. first of all, the decisions that the institutions have approved enable scientific conclusions to be made in medicine based on half a billion people in our countries, combined with one of the most advanced medical sciences in the world. the processing of this data, shared between all our countries, will enable the european union to be a leader in medical science, which automatically means that the european population will be the best protected from health threats in the world - as it should be. it is particularly important - and i conclude here - to keep a close eye on what is perhaps the parliament's greatest achievement in these interinstitutional negotiations with the european council. and this was the opportunity to work on the link between infectious and chronic diseases, to study precisely on the basis of this huge scientific database the interrelationships that exist between severe chronic diseases and infectious diseases, and in this way to make a medical breakthrough.
member of the commission. – madam president, i appreciate today’s discussion on the commission proposals regarding the management measures of the indian ocean tuna commission (iotc) and i want to thank the rapporteur and all those involved in the negotiations. the main purpose of the commission proposal regarding the iotc is to implement into eu law the conservation and enforcement measures adopted by this organisation at its annual meeting of may 2021. the transposition of measures by the iotc is a regular legislative exercise, as the organisation meets every year to update and adopt conservation and management measures related to the stocks it is entrusted to manage. i believe that, overall, the amendments by the co-legislator improve the text and, at the same time, these amendments are in line with the organisation’s conservation and management measures. the adoption of this amended regulation will allow eu vessels to fish in future fishing seasons on the same footing as vessels from other contracting parties of the iotc, which is a recurrent request from many stakeholders across the eu. in addition, our proposal included delegated powers to the commission, in particular, concerning the use of non—entangling and biodegradable fish aggregating devices. such delegated powers are important in order to ensure a simple and fast transposition into eu law of these technical rules that change every year. however, we regret that the co-legislators missed the opportunity to simplify the overall transposition process and that some of the avenues proposed by the commission to streamline the process were not supported, despite parliament’s and the council’s early calls on the commission to further improve the process. the transposition process lasts, on average, 18 months, from the drafting of the proposal by the commission to its adoption by the co-legislators. this is far too long and we continue to believe that further simplification is necessary. in this context, i ask for the inclusion of a statement on behalf of the commission in the minutes of this debate, reflecting our position on this particular point. the commission will, of course, continue to work together with the european parliament and the council on further improvements to the implementation process, and we hope that, in the future, we will be able to agree on a way forward. what’s more, the commission cannot accept a relaxation of the rules undermining the accuracy of such data, what we call ‘the margins of tolerance’, and some amendments by the co-legislators to the commission proposal on the revision of fisheries controls are specifically designed for the external eu tuna fleet and would undermine the international credibility of the eu. these amendments are in sharp contrast to the fact that the eu is pushing its partners for more accurate reporting within regional fisheries management organisations like the indian ocean tuna commission within the framework of international ocean governance and in the context of our zero—tolerance approach towards illegal fishing. we are, however, confident that we will find common ground in the ongoing trilogue negotiations. written statement by the commission the european parliament and the council have on several occasions underlined the need to further improve the process of implementation of conservation measures adopted by regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos), notably in terms of their timely adoption. against this background the commission regrets that its attempt to streamline the implementation process has not been fully retained by the european parliament and the council. the commission will continue to work together with the european parliament and the council on further improvements to the implementation process.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 4 october 2022.
the next item is the summary of the report by mr nienass on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 and regulation (eu) 2021/1060 with a view to providing additional flexibility to deal with the consequences of the military attack by the russian federation (fast - care) [com (2022) 0325 - c9-0218/2022 - 2022/0208 (cod) ] - committee on regional development (a9-0232/2022)
madam president, my remarks would be more or less in line with what the rapporteur just said. we saw during the covid pandemic that cohesion funds could be crucial to help our citizens in crisis situations. however, we have to be careful not to turn the cohesion funds into a common pool where everyone could just take out money for various projects. this is not the case now. the cohesion’s action for refugees and the following flexible assistance to territories are very needed instruments because they’re the only way we could show real, measurable european solidarity to people fleeing war at the moment. they show this not only with words, but with specific and concrete actions. it is crucial that this proposal be adopted as soon as possible, because otherwise our local and regional authorities and civil society organisations cannot get the funding quickly enough. in that case we would be risking to jeopardise our help and increase the disparities within the union.
in writing. one of the legislative objectives should be to simplify them. the law should serve the people, not the people to the law. it is therefore worth supporting the radio equipment directive, which will introduce a universal, uniform charger for electronic equipment throughout the european union. this will certainly simplify the daily lives of union citizens. in addition, the new rules will simplify the use of radio equipment and reduce unnecessary waste and costs, which will be of particular benefit to consumers and other end-users. the commission therefore concludes that the measures at issue are imputable to the state and that they are imputable to the state. i therefore believe that decisive action at union level is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market, to better protect consumers and the environment, and to ensure a flexible and forward-looking approach that does not hinder the development of new solutions in the field of installation and does not lead to technological deadlock.
in writing. we live in a political moment in which it is increasingly crucial to have the courage to take measures which, while seemingly simple and obvious, involve combining multiple interests, but which serve the people. this should be a priority. the legislative measure which will make it compulsory on the european market to adopt a universal charger model for small and medium-sized portable electronic devices such as mobile phones, portable computers, digital cameras and headphones is a next-generation measure of great importance that will benefit all consumers and the environment. it is expected that this measure will save european consumers around eur 250 million per year and reduce the production of e-waste by 11 000 tonnes. this measure, which is part of a digital inclusion drive, of which the harmonisation of roaming charges has had the greatest impact, should be implemented as quickly as possible, taking into account the limits set by law and ensuring that the standards chosen are the most appropriate. the commission should also take into account the need to ensure that the european union's electricity market is open to competition.
for decades, industry has resisted, but last year, at the european parliament's urging, the european commission took matters into its own hands. in record time, a european agreement was reached to introduce a universal charger for smartphones. the final horde is now being taken for final approval by the full house in this hemisphere. finally, the frustration of consumers over the mountain of incompatible chargers that accumulate at home will end. starting in 2024, we'll be able to charge our smartphones and other small electronic devices like tablets and portable boxes with a single charger. this will also immediately put an end to the surplus chargers that generate nearly 11 000 tonnes of e-waste annually at the expense of the environment and sustainable policies. but we must also be critical: this standard access gate has taken too long. we cannot afford to wait another decade for these digital files and the opening up of our data society. let us make it a priority to design our digital architecture. the agreements on the digital services act, the digital markets act and the european data governance regulation have already made a good start, but the work is far from finished.
the next item is the report by mrs katrin langensiepen, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the 'accessibleeu' centre for the support of accessibility policy in the eu internal market (2022/2013 ((ini)) ((a9-0209/2022).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i appreciate that this institution attaches great importance to accessibility, and i thank the rapporteur, ms langensiepen, for her diligent work on this topic and the whole imco committee for their overwhelming support for her report. your report on accessibleeu confirms the need for dismantling barriers that persons with disabilities still face and for improving the accessibility of the built and virtual environments for persons with disabilities. these are also obligations for the eu and for member states as parties to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. accessibleeu, as we created, will address many of the important challenges and issues, as well as the solutions that you propose in your report. the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities confirms that the european commission attaches great importance to accessibility. accessibility is an enabler of rights, autonomy and equality. it is a prerequisite for the full participation of persons with disabilities on an equal basis with others in a society, as well as in our democracy. with accessibleeu we will be able to step up our efforts in this area. we have now adopted a good number of important legislative instruments on accessibility. accessibleeu will be a european resource centre to increase coherence in accessibility and legislation to facilitate access to relevant knowledge. we have launched a call for tenders to build accessibleeu and we aim to sign the contract by the end of the year. we share many of the objectives set out in your report, and accessibleeu will contribute to progressing in accessibility in various ways: networking, awareness, capacity building, training sessions and mutual learning. accessibleeu will support the implementation of eu accessibility legislation, connect stakeholders, create a one—stop shop for knowledge on accessibility, and train highly skilled accessibility professionals. in its development, i assure you that we will work closely with member states, stakeholders, and organisations of persons with disabilities, and we are more than prepared, of course, as ever, to continue working with you.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and for having found the summary of a balanced text. in the context of the disability rights strategy, the creation of this centre was necessary to assist the commission in monitoring and implementing the strategy, but also to support and coordinate the various member states, where unfortunately there are still many differences and delays in the implementation of the european accessibility directives. the centre's main aim is to promote a real culture of equal opportunities and full participation of disabled people in all aspects and areas of daily life. i am pleased that the importance of increasing the employment levels of disabled people has been emphasized, both through the use of new technologies and through the necessary cooperation, not only with non-governmental organizations but also and above all with the business world, which must be made aware of the great potential of the employment of disabled people, who are often excluded today also because of prejudices that have now been refuted by their many work and success stories. in this context, the role of local authorities is important, both in the analysis of the needs of the territories and in the implementation of social policies. i am convinced that the centre will be the operational instrument by which the commission and the individual states, with a coordinated and harmonized approach, can concretely promote all the conditions for genuine access to real life, by removing all physical and cultural obstacles.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, with no doubt our union should strive for a further promotion and development of the accessibility in all the eu countries and institutions. the key to ensuring a more inclusive society in europe is the collective efforts and cooperation among all the stakeholders. they have to share successful good practices and projects. our role in this parliament is to enforce the eu commitment to safeguard the rights of the people with disabilities. we shall ensure a better quality of life and adequate accessibility to goods and services. five key priorities for the s&d group and parliament took an integral part of this report. the first one, need for stronger involvement in effective participation of all stakeholders. second, adequate financial funding and human resources in ensuring the good organisation and functioning of those centres. third, establishing of national accessibility hubs. fourth, further implementation and building on already existing policies – and i am putting a strong emphasis here, because there are many policies, it has already been mentioned by the rapporteur, but they are not properly implemented to be effective. and fifth, a possible establishment of an agency. we call for a strong accessibleeu centre by identifying to help and overcome the gaps and inconsistencies in the current accessibility legislation. establishing the accessibleeu centre is a step in the right direction to increase the coherence in accessibility policies, to share good practices, and to create a more accessible and inclusive europe.
my dear mrs. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, modernisation and development are part of our daily lives, and today we are again talking about the harmful effects of discrimination and the importance of rights and freedoms. our commitment to social protection and employment opportunities for all starts with the most vulnerable groups. the largest ethnic minority in europe, the roma, continue to face discrimination and barriers to full inclusion in society. the situation and living conditions are particularly difficult, as basic services such as access to roads, water supply, sewage and electricity are lacking. limited access to health care, child care, education and employment only exacerbate inequalities. in bulgaria, roma slums do not look european, nor is the life that roma lead european. i believe that we need to do more to realise european values. the member states must make further efforts to use the union's resources effectively.
member of the commission. – madam president, i really wish to thank you for this debate and i want to say that i feel the frustration which many of you have vented during this session. and i think it would be an understatement to say that we must work much harder to improve the unacceptable living conditions of roma people in settlements, and we can only succeed if we cooperate at all levels. the commission will continue to support the efforts of member states in implementing their national roma strategic frameworks in line with the eu framework, and in implementing funding programmes that are of direct relevance to roma. we also need to strengthen the capacity of civil society organisations, increase political determination and ensure that roma themselves can meaningfully participate in this process. i count on your support so that we can jointly deliver a union of equality for roma people.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for this opportunity to debate an urgent topic. we live in a time of multiple crises, but the long-term challenge of promoting roma inclusion must not fall off the agenda. we are speaking here of some 6 million of our fellow citizens, and in times of crisis, it is more important than ever that we come together and show solidarity. the council and the european parliament, together with the commission, have been close partners in the efforts that have been made at eu level over the past ten years to address the situation of the roma people. we heard it very clearly during this debate. we must do more to improve the situation of many of our roma citizens and to close the gaps to ensure that roma people enjoy the same life chances as everyone else. for instance, as several of you pointed out, we have to use better resources that are available and far more than that. i believe we all agree that a life of poverty, exclusion and discrimination must not be the automatic fate of any child born in europe, whatever their ethnic group and social background. together, we can and must change this. the czech presidency is strongly committed to driving forward the roma inclusion policy. later this month, we will host a meeting of the roma platform in prague, where stakeholders, policymakers and experts will be able to meet and to work together. i look forward to seeing some of you in prague.
i have received one motion for resolution tabled in accordance with rule 136(1) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. you're constantly beating yourself up visiting the gypsy communities. it seems you only see what's politically convenient for you, but not the ugly truth. here are some unpleasant facts you want us to ignore. huge amounts of aid have been poured into these communities for decades. they had every opportunity to help themselves, as well as with funds from the state and society. but you can't help someone who doesn't want help. generations have grown up on welfare and child support because it's easier to collect than to work. their children don't go to school because they're sent to beg. nothing stops their integration but their own laziness! communities that do not want to integrate have no place in the european union! people who can't read and write and have no qualifications can't claim any job they're assigned to! people who have been living in illegal buildings for years, who steal water and electricity, who rob and kill ordinary working bulgarian citizens and pensioners, should not be tolerated! the truth, my fellow citizens, is that ethnicity is not a privilege. all rights come with duties and responsibilities to society.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr minister beck, we have indeed been discussing this subject in the chamber for 11 years. i would like to express my deep gratitude to the vast majority of colleagues who have always defended the justice and the admission of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area, as enshrined in the pre-accession treaties. it was not requested by bulgaria and romania in 2011, as the previous speaker said, it was written in the pre-accession treaties that this would be a fact and this fact has not happened since 2011 not through the fault of bulgaria and romania. both the commission and the european parliament, and at expert technical level, have always given the assessment that bulgaria and romania are absolutely ready. we are part of the schengen information system, we feed information from our services into the information system, we contribute to the security of the european union, of all european citizens, by also protecting the external borders of the european union, of course, in solidarity with all the union's instruments, with frontex, etc. but the public is tired of this debate. the bulgarian citizens are tired of hearing the same thing every time that one or another country in the council does not make a decision because of their internal problems. i would like to thank the czech presidency for tackling this issue, and i really wish you success this time, success for all of us in december this year, so that this happens, that justice is done and there are no different categories of european citizens. bulgarians and romanians deserve to be full citizens not only of the european union but also of the schengen area. the bulgarian economy, and all fair-minded people, believe that the decision should be made.
madam president, mr president of the council, the commissioner, mr minister, do you know what the greatest benefit for bulgarians is of our membership in the european union? it's the right of free movement, and the freedom to cross the continent without visas for us people who grew up behind the iron curtain is perhaps the most visible and valuable asset of our membership in the european union. however, this freedom for bulgarian and romanian citizens comes with conditions. for 11 years now, the council has failed to reach a decision on the full application of schengen law in bulgaria and romania. for more than 11 years, one project has been gathering dust a draft solution, after all the checks, recommendations, assessments of different working groups. 11 years the commission and parliament regularly acknowledge the readiness of bulgaria and romania, and at the same time for 11 years the bulgarian and romanian citizens have been hostages of political games in which new and new criteria are being set for both countries, in complete contradiction with schengen law. and i will not even talk about the economic cost of this council's inaction. any operating and investment costs for cross-border workers, tourists, road hauliers, freight, border queues, road accidents, including air pollution. there is a more terrible price, and that is the erosion of trust in the european union and its institutions, the feeling that our citizens are second-hand, that there are rules for the rich and rules for the poor. i believe our union can be more and should be more just. it is time for the council to take an immediate decision on the full application of the provisions of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania to the abolition of checks at all, i stress all internal land, sea and air borders. i'd like to address some of our colleagues in the room who might be skeptical about our goal. if you care about the future of our union, support us, vote with us on a strong resolution during the next plenary.
madam chairman, i'll try to be as brief as possible. the fact that bulgaria and romania are not yet admitted to schengen can only be determined in one way. this is a disgrace to the european union and its double standards. i'll probably repeat things that my colleagues have said. how many times must we reaffirm our technical readiness and political will? more than ten years ago we proved that we met absolutely all the criteria both bulgaria and romania. and since then, all the arguments used to block the two countries are purely political. the truth is simple, but it is hard to swallow: the principles of solidarity and equality are in fact an absolute illusion and do not exist in the european union. it's a huge problem, and our two countries are quickly forgotten. i don't know what the principle is. instead of equality, we get disrespect, and instead of solidarity, we are ignored, as if we don't exist. it's like our citizens are second-hand, marginal people. make no mistake, the more you show disregard for our citizens, i can tell you, the more you will push them away from the european union. what do you want to create internal conflict? is that the purpose of the european union? instead of unification, there should be conflict between different nations. it is time to end this discrimination and to bring bulgaria and romania into schengen. and to my german colleague, i can tell you that all the corridors that lead to europe with illegal immigrants are german.
mr. president, i would like to the chairman, mr the commissioner, mr minister, our position in this parliament has long been clear on the question of bulgaria and romania joining schengen. the european commission's position has also been clear for some time. the interest of the bulgarian and romanian citizens, of the businesses in both countries, but also of the entire european union, is even clearer, that the principles of free movement apply throughout the union. and here's where the problem arises: what's the real obstacle? why didn't it happen? governments that block the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen, owe an honest and clear answer. i want to emphasize that they don't give it. and that no longer meets our standards as a union, the principles on which the institutions operate. often, though unofficially, corruption is mentioned, and here i ask the question: how does the isolation of bulgaria and romania help fight corruption? how does the tightness of our business help to free him from the grip of corruption? on the contrary, the principle here is the exact opposite. citizens and businesses cannot be punished for the corruption of their governments. citizens and businesses must be supported. bulgaria and romania should enter schengen immediately and should be given more help in reforming their services and their justice system, rather than being isolated.
mr president, mr president of the council, vice-president, minister beck, the european parliament has always supported the full membership of bulgaria and romania in schengen and today we reaffirm this position. all the technical requirements have been met, and this has been confirmed by the union's interior ministers, but nevertheless both sides have been at the door of schengen for more than a decade. we are equal in terms of requirements and obligations, but not in terms of results. isn't that a double standard? bulgarian membership is blocked due to political objections of certain member states in the council. objections that have nothing to do with schengen, and that is disappointing for all european citizens. amidst so many crises, bulgaria is spending scarce public resources to maintain internal border controls with romania and greece, rather than redirecting those resources to the busy european external border with turkey. the council must rethink its position and give the green light immediately to bulgaria and romania's membership of schengen, with all borders simultaneously air, water and land.
mr. chairman, i have a feeling this is a dejà vu, a play of the absurd. everything we're talking about today has been talked about for ten years. the technical criteria have been met, resolutions have been adopted, the european commission has said its 'yes'. and the absurd question is: what else do we expect to happen to get bulgaria and romania into the schengen area? i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the enlargement of schengen to include bulgaria and romania would be a success for the european union, and further delay would only work in favour of the hybrid war that the kremlin is waging against europe. i urge this high tribunal to take the only correct decision: immediate admission of bulgaria and romania to schengen. and let this be done at the council in the month of december and let us all meet together as one family at christmas.
mr. chairman, in june, bulgaria lifted its veto on skopje's ambitions to join the union. we did this despite open questions, so as not to hinder the expansion. in recent months, over 100,000 ukrainian refugees have found shelter and sustenance in bulgaria, and we have borne our share of the burden of the war. meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of bulgarians who work in the schengen countries and contribute to their welfare through their work are still subject to border controls. the criteria are met. it is time for the european union to follow its own rules and admit bulgaria and romania to schengen. it is time to grow up to the economic selfishness of some members of the council who are holding three member states on the threshold of the zone under false pretenses. in these very difficult months for the european union, the enlargement of schengen is one of the few opportunities to show that the union's dynamism is not exhausted. that solidarity, common space and trust between partners are not empty words.
mr president, commissioner, european agriculture is facing another crisis. russia's encroachment on ukraine today increasingly affects the daily needs of european citizens. europe is hardest hit by the decline in fertiliser production as a result of rising gas prices, and fertiliser prices are at record levels. reduced fertiliser use can reduce the yield of some crops by half. lower yields and higher food prices put pressure on consumers and contribute to faster inflation. that's more bad news for food security. we risk facing a food supply crisis and in the coming months, a food supply crisis. commissioner, this strategy is necessary. to reduce our dependence on fertilisers and to achieve the 'green' objectives, the european union should support the development of safe, effective and affordable alternative products for plant protection and bioresistants and encourage their wider use. to ensure food security, coordinated action and an integrated approach at european union level are needed to ensure the production of fertilisers at affordable prices, to ensure sufficient quantity and high quality of food, and to guarantee fair incomes for farmers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps a hint to the left of the house: if you don't master this today, you don't have to worry about tomorrow. or, to put it in statesman's terms, we need both. the prices of inorganic nitrogen in themselves depend directly on the price of gas, and in my home region, gas prices were so high that the piesteritz fertilizer plant stopped production, not because there was no gas, not because something didn't work, but simply because the fertilizer had become so expensive that no farmer would have bought it. the commission has therefore two requests or demands to the firstly, the solution would naturally be to support the plants in the gas price, that is to say to support the gas price, because then the fertiliser would be tolerable again in the price. secondly - and this has been said many times - i ask you to suspend the so-called anti-dumping duties because at the current price level there is no longer any control. this too would be an important market signal.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! thank you for a very interesting, important, inspiring debate. i am pleased that the announcement of the commission's communication has been welcomed by the house. we will try to prepare this communiqué as soon as possible to present a comprehensive vision of what we are going to do to improve the situation so that this crisis does not threaten food security. food security this word has been used many times in the debate. i will not, of course, refer to all the speeches, but in these club speeches, on behalf of the political groups, mr dorfmann, mr cioloş, mr vondra, they have emphasised the importance of this in particular. and the second problem, we also stress, is the need to find alternatives to chemical fertilizers, to make agricultural production sustainable. it was in the speeches on behalf of the political groups that mrs aguilera, mr biteau and mr kokkalis were very much emphasized. and we want to include both of those issues very strongly in our message. we take food safety very seriously. no fertilizer, reduction of fertilizer, not the one we wanted, because the european union has planned, or is still planning to reduce the use of fertilizer: this is the 20 percent target. and today, there are already forecasts that fertilizer consumption could be reduced by 20% this year. we didn't want this to happen because of a situation like this that puts farmers at risk of their agricultural production, of their economic security. we're taking this very seriously. we need to support the fertiliser sector and there are already public aid opportunities today. we talked about this, and i personally wanted to see that, for example, fertiliser producers could be supported by solidarity payments, transfers from sectors that are making extraordinary profits. and we should start treating this sector in general, and i'm going to propose this in this communication, as an important part of the whole food security system. we look at food security, at this system, looking at farmers, the most important of course, the foundation of security, the food processing industry and the food distribution. but we also have to recognize the importance of fertilizer production, and remember that we want to reduce this consumption, but no one has ever planned, and we can't imagine, that agriculture can do without chemical fertilizers. so this has to be part of our food security efforts. as for the other aspect, i'll just finish by saying that we have to make our own products. we cannot build food security if we are dependent on outside suppliers for fertilizer, especially russia. that is absolutely out of the question, because as has been very well said here, russia will use any such dependence for blackmail, for its political, imperial purposes. so there must be support for production directly in the european union. and that strategic approach will be an important part of this communication. increasing farmers' independence from fertilisers. i think this is going to be a good opportunity to review our strategic plans. we are in the process of evaluating and adopting the next strategic plans. this process will be finalized in the coming weeks. some countries have already adopted strategic plans. i have the impression that the possibilities of making farmers independent of chemical fertilisers have not been fully exploited. because even precision farming -- it's a shame that only nine countries have included it in their strategic plans, and this is a very good tool to reduce, to rationalize the use of fertilizer, to apply it precisely where it is needed, without overusing it. so here we're going to encourage the use of these instruments. the fertilisation plan, precision farming, the use of natural fertilisers, especially manure in animal production, are things that should, in a broader sense, create an alternative to the need to use chemical fertilisers. it will also be an important part of this communication to give an overview and to indicate the potential opportunities that lie in the strategic plans these plans, which can be updated and changed during the operation of the future common agricultural policy. ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for all the votes. we've carefully recorded them here and we'll use them in our strategy. one more question, perhaps, is the question of tariffs. i have said that the suspension of customs duties was proposed by the commission, but i would be cautious about suspending the anti-dumping restrictions. dumping is always dangerous in an economy, it cannot be tolerated, and if it were allowed in the fertiliser industry, the result would be that the situation would get worse, not better, so it has to be approached with great caution. we'll work on the communiqué. thank you very much for inspiring this communication in the first place. we thought about it, but this signal from parliament, this strong, strong encouragement from parliament, has had the effect that just yesterday i obtained the commission's approval to prepare such a communication with a strategic approach to this problem.
the debate is closed.
in writing. the international scenario of rising commodity prices and energy costs is hitting our farmers hard. the situation is aggravated by the fertiliser emergency, whose energy-intensive production process raises questions of food supply and security at european and global level. once again we are faced with the problem of dependence on third countries to make up for the shortcomings of our own production systems. in addition to immediate responses to curb inflationary pressures and meet the needs of our entrepreneurs, we need a long-term european strategy that moves in the direction of lower environmental impact and greater sustainability. we need to make our agriculture less dependent on fertilisers and foreign industry, while keeping farm businesses profitable. in this context, priority will be given to the development of all technological and agronomic solutions that allow for the reduction of fertilisers, innovative agricultural practices and the preservation and optimisation of soils.
madam president, as the war of aggression of russia against ukraine goes on and on, it gets more complicated, in various forms of intimidation and annexation. just recently, putin announced about the confiscation of zaporizhzhia nuclear power station, the far biggest in europe, and it happens just days before the head of the international atomic energy agency visits moscow and kyiv. so, colleagues, with your permission and understanding, i want to move an amendment which would go as ‘denounces the russian presidential decree of 5 october 2022 designating the zaporizhzhia npp “federal property” and instructing the russian government to take over its control’. it can't happen unpunished.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. i see there are no objections. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on covid-19 ensuring eu preparedness and response: an outlook by kathleen van brempt, on behalf of the special committee on covid-19 pandemic insights and recommendations for the future, and pascal canfin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000024/2022 b9-0020/2022) (2022/2735 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am happy to update this house on the next steps in dealing with covid—19. ever since the pandemic first hit, the european union and its member states have worked tirelessly to counter its impact and protect our citizens. we’ve been learning lessons as well. together, we revamped our health security framework, with stronger mandates for our health agencies; we created the health emergency preparedness and response authority (hera) and the new regulation on serious health threats to enhance our cycle of prevention, preparedness and response. we have also encouraged member states to invest in stronger health systems. now in their recovery and resilience plans. member states have earmarked over eur 40 billion in investments for better health care. honourable members, the pandemic has reminded us that we are stronger when we share unity of purpose. that unity led to an historic achievement for our union: the european union vaccine strategy. we created and deployed a strategy giving all member states equitable access to vaccines at the scale needed, as a recent european court of auditors report recognised. importantly, the strategy also enabled us to make a major contribution to the global response to covid—19. we’ve now donated nearly 500 million doses, on top of the many hundreds of millions we’ve exported. global supply now outstrips demand. we must work with manufacturers to better align supply and demand. at the same time, the covid—19 pandemic is not yet over, so we will pursue our valiant efforts to support member states. first, we should keep striving to improve on the vaccines we have. we are boosting member states’ vaccination programmes. we’ve adopted vaccines and are supporting the research and development of vaccines that elicit broader, stronger, longer—lasting immune responses. i am glad that some member states have started integrating covid—19 vaccines into their programmes. we are inviting others to follow suit. we will work with member states to strengthen capacity to face the coming months. we must keep closing vaccination gaps and protecting those at highest risk of severe disease with further boosters. we can put in place joint procurement arrangements for promising covid vaccines that come on the market. our ongoing covid—19 strategy encompasses therapeutics and diagnostics as well. member states also need resilient surveillance systems to monitor respiratory viruses, including covid—19. the health agencies you’ve helped to strengthen have a key role, too. we will also keep supporting member states with expertise through the health security committee. continued coordination on health preparedness and response will be key. honourable members, beyond covid, the commission is focusing on various surveillance actions. also, hera’s prioritisation exercise has identified three high—impact cross-border health threat categories. our eu4health programme is funding several actions for integrated surveillance. one explores the integration of human and animal health surveillance data; another seeks to improve coordinated surveillance in animals and the environment. before i conclude, let me come back to vigilance, this time as regards the mis— and disinformation that threaten public health, european values and democratic systems. we work with the european parliament, other eu institutions and member states to promote reliable information and empower citizens while monitoring, analysing and responding to threats. the strengthened code of practice and proposal under the european democracy action plan are additional tools we have. our quick reaction to the monkeypox emergency for tracing vaccines and therapeutics shows how we can emulate our achievements against covid in tackling future health crisis. our growing capacity to deal with emerging threats stems from the unity of purpose i mentioned at the start. long may it continue to the benefit of all european citizens.
mr president, in the light of the lessons learned from covid, one of those is prevention. prevention is at the heart of fighting health threats. but to ensure this, we must continue to strengthen our european health union. prior to the covid—19 pandemic, national health systems were fragile and unprepared for the crisis such as the one we have faced. now we have an opportunity to look at what we did and what we did not do in the face of the pandemic, and put in place measures to strengthen eu—level protection, prevention, preparedness and response to health emergencies. the extended european centre for disease control mandate approved this week reflects a very positive step towards a more resilient, safer eu. so too the strengthened european medicines agency and the revised mandate for the relationship with who. perhaps most importantly, the pandemic shows us that when we must tackle these crises, when we do that, we must do it together. health hazards are not restricted by borders, and coordination and collaboration among member states was key to rolling out vaccine programmes and, in turn, saving lives. indeed, we must continue to support our neighbours by further strengthening the framework for joint procurement. we must not let the crisis that we are currently facing take away from our mission to learn from covid—19, particularly as we enter the winter months. we must not be complacent. covid has not gone away and in my country, ireland, we have had reports this week of increased levels of hospitalisation due to covid-19.
the commission has already done so. i am sorry to say that you have said many correct and important things, but of course the commission has not done everything here, and even in your communication one idea is far too vague: we must also protect those who have not been left unharmed by this pandemic. 'leave no one behind' is not a promise! we urgently need more concrete plans for the future, for people who suffer from an infectious disease and have chronic consequences. what does that mean exactly? the who has given us this estimate: we have over 17 million people in europe who are suffering from long covid, post-covid and me/cfs, and they need urgent and rapid access to treatment and also to medication. it is not enough to point to a lack of data. people want to get back to their normal lives, and every day is a new torture for them. we cannot accept that! i urge the commission and the member states to get their hands on the money now for clinical trials and for the authorization of medicines. we are talking about very concrete, sometimes very dramatic, patient situations and we must act urgently.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, some of the people in the european union and in french overseas departments have shown themselves to be hostile to vaccination. even today, some of our citizens have not received their first dose, by choice. the covid-19 pandemic we are experiencing is therefore not just a health issue, it is a challenge to our health institutions. thus, the issue of misinformation, particularly pervasive on social networks, has led to dramatic situations. it is therefore time to take the right measure to tackle this problem by implementing a truly effective european awareness-raising campaign. could the commissioner suggest a strategy for informed citizen choice to combat misinformation, which is still too often associated with non-vaccination?
mr president, there is something completely wrong with your approach to maintaining a high level of readiness and responsiveness, and that is obvious to anyone who does not view every issue from the perspective of some new kind of european soviet union. you call it a federation. he certainly needs a quick response. but the answer is not to centralize everything in the hands of the european commission. that's my opinion. i have extremely grave concerns that this creates an incredible potential for corruption in a system of this kind. politicians who are not elected by absolutely no one can make decisions for the whole of europe. we've already seen what happened with covid-19. some of my colleagues are already talking about this thing. it is logical that decisions of this type should be taken at expert level, with the participation of all 27 countries. it's logical that the medical guilds themselves would send these experts to form a council and be nominated by them. that makes perfect sense to me. i'm sorry, but it's not wise to rely on the commission, which has tried to guarantee all activities. sorry, the soviet union number's already been dialed, let's go to some other level. that seems like too much control at best.
mr president, commissioner, i share the commission’s own assessment that among the many unpredictabilities of this pandemic, one thing is certain: covid—19 is here to stay. scientists shows that the virus will continue to evolve, and the emergence of new variants is highly likely. that’s why we have to maintain a high level of readiness and to step up vaccination coverage with targeted efforts to reach those who are still not vaccinated. over 90 million eligible people in the eu are still unvaccinated, including approximately 9 million aged 60 and above, thereby increasing the risk of mortality and emergence of new variants. sadly, my home country, bulgaria, is at the bottom of this ranking. only 30% of all adults in bulgaria have received the vaccines. what is worse is that the reason for this is not the lack of vaccines, it is the hesitancy among the population fuelled by the disinformation campaign. so my question to the commission is, what concrete actions will you be taking to counter this? the real threat to the health and security of our citizens is in the social media and not some biolabs. it turns out that there was no need for any fancy weapons – millions of people have died just because of facebook!
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, i think we have committed ourselves to the paris agreement targets, and with the fit for 55 package, we, as the european union, have put this legislation on the table. within this legislation – i think it goes without saying – we have to decarbonise, in particular, the transport sector, and we see that individual transport as well as heavy—goods transport are still emitting very high emissions. alternative and sustainable fuels are key to decarbonising and, in order to do so, we definitely need to overcome the bottleneck which is and which was for a long time the infrastructure. therefore, dear colleagues, we have to fast roll out the infrastructure for alternative fuels. just let me go one step back in near history: in 2013, the european commission already came up with legislation called afid, the alternative fuels infrastructure directive, at that time, and this previous legislation was totally destroyed – i have to say that in these words – by the member states, by the council. if they had not completely undermined the legislation at that time, we would have had 677 000 charging stations across the european union by the end of 2020. and even now, october 2022, we have, i would say, only 377 000 charging stations. therefore, it was high time that the european commission submitted the afir regulation within the fit for 55 package. two weeks ago, here, exactly at that place, we voted in the transport committee overwhelmingly with a majority for this report – 36 yes to no, and i clearly say charging must be as simple as filling up petrol if we want to make a success story out of it. i don’t want to miss the opportunity to thank all my shadow colleagues from all the other groups. i guess we have now achieved strong and progressive elements. we have achieved charging stations every 60 kilometres, which will be obligatory until the end of 2025. we have also put in higher power output for light—duty vehicles, for heavy—duty vehicles and, in particular, for hydrogen infrastructure. we have also put more ambition into the hydrogen targets: refuelling hydrogen stations every 100 kilometre until the end of 2027. we have also put into this legal regulation obligatory card payments on charging stations. we have included the electrification of and hydrogen for rail modes. on—shore power supply for ships until the end of 2030 and shoreside electricity for aircrafts until the end of 2025. we have also incorporated exemptions for outer regions and included data provisions which make user information easier. i proposed a european access point, which will also be established within this regulation. now, hopefully, we will get the support from members of parliament on wednesday at noon. but still one remaining issue is open and for this, i want to ask for your support, dear colleagues, and it is the sanction mechanism. i just want to tell you frankly that this sanction mechanism has nothing to do with ideology. it’s just a tool to push the member states towards the implementation of this regulation. article 19(a) just says that the member states need to implement a penalty mechanism for those charge point operators who don’t comply with the legislation. full stop. we also included a recital stating that the european commission will be demanded to fine member states eur 1 000 per non—installed charging station. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, we have worked now, i would say, for a year and a half, extremely, extremely on this dossier, with all my colleagues on the different reports and the different committees. we had more than 1 000 amendments. we clustered all these amendments into different topics. we have put them all together. we made out of this more than 1 000 amendments, 18 compromise amendments, and we brought 17 of them through, two weeks ago within the transport committee. now it’s up to us to take the next step. the next step is to vote for it in this house, and then we have to go to the trilogues, where we already have fixed two dates for trilogues with the czech presidency. i think we did our utmost as european parliamentarians. now it’s up to you to vote and to follow my and our line. i’m really optimistic that this will be the starting point of a new european era where we can install infrastructure for alternative fuels, alternative technology. once again, no green deal without new technologies.
the rapporteur for the opinion, mr envi. mr president, international shipping is one of the sectors where co2 emissions have increased most significantly since the 1990s. and going forward, by 2050, emissions are expected to increase by up to 130% in shipping. we therefore desperately need a green shipping transformation. new technologies and new types of green fuels have been taken up in other sectors. we need shipping to take a similar course. it's an emergency. the commission recognises that with the current legislation it will be difficult to achieve the co2 reductions in shipping before 2030 and that it is simply not good enough. in envi, we therefore believe that we both need the eu to legislate on ambitious reduction requirements, while at the same time helping to boost innovation in the sector so that we can get the necessary development under way. there is a real need for us to put pressure on everyone in the maritime sector to contribute, both suppliers and operators. everybody needs to use more green fuel. otherwise shipping will not be included in the green transition in time. we need the shipping, but we need it to run on green fuel.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs. first, i would like to thank everybody who was involved in this dossier’s reports on the fueleu maritime regulation and alternative fuels infrastructure regulation. i really appreciate the efforts made by everybody to reach such broad majorities around the compromises. it is very good to see these key proposals moving forward, as they are important deliverables for the fit for 55 package. accelerating the uptake of alternative fuels is a cornerstone of our approach to achieve our 2030 climate ambition. it is also an effective contribution to decreasing our reliance on fossil fuel imports and improving energy security and air quality in the eu. fueleu maritime will play a crucial role in decarbonising the maritime sector. imposing gradually stricter greenhouse gas intensity limits on the energy used onboard ships will provide a clear signal to the market of the need for renewable and low-carbon fuels in this sector. it also provides regulatory certainty and facilitates the necessary investment for the energy transition. the additional requirements to use onshore power supply will drastically cut emissions in port areas from the most polluting ships, including minimising harmful air pollution. it is important to ensure that the provisions for zero emissions at berth remain robust. the report adopted in the committee on transport and tourism (tran) is the result of a well-balanced compromise following months of discussions. it maintains the majority of central elements in the core methodology of the original commission proposal, such as focus on greenhouse gas intensity, technology neutrality and flexibility mechanisms. some other amendments could reduce the efficiency and make it more difficult to implement the regulation. i would like to recall some of the key elements behind our proposal. first, the commission has proposed a level of ambition that ensures we are on track to deliver the climate goals in 2030 and 2050, with maritime transport playing its role as part of the economy-wide effort for decarbonisation. the priority should be to adopt this important piece of legislation quickly, with the reassurance that we would soon review the regulation. second, regarding the inclusion of a sub—target for renewable fuels of non-biological origin, i would like to recall that fueleu maritime is built upon a principle of technological neutrality, which is also strongly supported by the stakeholders. while i agree that we should incentivise the use of these fuels, we should leave it to the market to make technology decision and drive the price down as supply increases. otherwise, we risk locking in the large majority of the existing fleet on the most expensive fuel option, making them end up paying to comply. that would be a lose-lose situation leading to higher costs for operators while doing nothing for cutting emissions. other amendments have also been tabled ahead of today’s plenary debate on the scope of the regulation, both in terms of the ship size threshold and geographical scope. regarding the former, in the commission’s opinion, the 5 000 gross tonnes threshold remains the most optimal one where we tackle 90% of emissions while not imposing regulatory burdens on 99% of maritime transport smes. we must also keep in mind that the eur 5.7 billion investment estimate for ports to put in place new infrastructure to meet the fueleu and afir current requirements already requires significant effort. it is extremely doubtful that the ports sector could cover drastically increased investment needs, which would be required if the size threshold is lowered. as regards the geographical scope, our proposal is fair towards third countries and allows them to decide on appropriate action regarding their share of energy used emissions. the only real solution to this problem is a global measure agreed at the imo, which the eu is pushing for. that being said, i think we can all agree on the need to set a clear path for swift action on renewable and low-carbon fuels in maritime transport. by delivering a robust legal framework with ambitious but achievable targets, we will encourage investment, create demand and allow the supply to scale up in a timely fashion. let’s not forget that decarbonising shipping will require a major effort from operators and ports and that we should do as much as we can to ensure a smooth transition. a few words on the alternative fuels infrastructure regulation: to accelerate the uptake of sustainable alternative fuels, and particularly zero—emission vehicles, we must also ensure that a sufficient network of publicly accessible recharging and refuelling points is available across the eu, and this regulation provides certainty to light and heavy-duty vehicles that they can easily recharge and refuel. i want to welcome the tran report, which fully supports the switch to regulation, the setting of binding deployment targets and requirements to achieve full interoperability. this is also a very good starting point for the trialogues, considering that the council also supports these main principles in its general approach. some of the proposed amendments go well beyond the scope and parameters of our proposal. let me therefore reiterate the key reasoning behind our proposal. deployment of infrastructure should largely be market driven. we are setting mandatory deployment targets to ensure that a sufficient network of electric recharging and hydrogen refuelling infrastructure is deployed across the eu. member states will have to ensure this. on this basis, market actors should invest further into the recharging and refuelling infrastructure needed to fully correspond to market demand, providing the optimal infrastructure. targets should also remain technically feasible, considering the investments needed, particularly in the underlying electricity grid infrastructure. 2025 will be upon us very quickly. those green investments will take some time, especially for truck recharging. equally, deployment targets should be reasonable and be set at a level that will not crowd out private investments or lead to unused infrastructure in parts and regions of europe. it would simply make it more expensive for our citizens. competition between operators of recharging points will be key to having the best services and prices for consumers. we agree on the need to ensure that users have full access to relevant data. transparent price information and easy payment methods. overall, we should be careful not to overregulate this nascent and fast—growing market, for example, in the area of roaming, and thereby discourage private investments. when it comes to infrastructure for propulsion fuels in maritime ports, i believe that we need to be careful in what can be prescribed already today. picking one technology now and mandating such infrastructure in all ports will effectively pre-empt future technology choices by industry. we will have a review on afir early on that will provide more clarity on possible decarbonisation pathways for the maritime sector that would allow us to set appropriate targets. as regards targets for rail infrastructure to be certainty under afir, i would like to recall that, under our ten-t proposal, we already propose a full electrification of the ten-t core and comprehensive railway networks. repeating such requirements in afir would only create unneeded legislative redundancies. to conclude, i look forward to a fruitful debate and i hope that you can adopt the parliament position on these two files this week to start trialogues next week already. thank you very much.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the regional development committee. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in the past. it is clear that the european union's true independence requires that it renounce its dependence on fossil fuels. the promotion of alternative fuels infrastructure projects is simply essential. it is true that no region or territory of the european union can be left out. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market on the basis of the criteria set out in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. and that is a big problem. europe will be weak in this area as long as at least one country or outermost region of the union is weak in its achievements. and no matter how many people live in a particular place, as long as an electric car cannot be charged when travelling anywhere in the eu, we will not be able to convince consumers to abandon polluting transport. i invite you to work together and to work together.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i negotiated two pieces of legislation for the epp from the 'fit for 55' package: the co2 fleet limits for cars and the regulation on infrastructure development. i consider both projects to be two sides of the same coin. unfortunately, both parliament and the member states have voted in favour of a ban on combustion engines for cars from 2035. a legally non-binding recital will not change this. let me be clear: from 2035 no cars with internal combustion engines will be allowed to be registered. and i still think that decision, mr bloss, is completely wrong. deciding now which technology will save the most co2 by 2035 and be affordable for the citizens - what a hubris! the greens, social democrats and liberals are still firmly behind the ban and pushing it forward. no sign of insight due to rising energy prices. what does all this mean for infrastructure development? first of all, we need more speed. blinds and technology fixation won't help us. the greens and social democrats wanted the principle of the breakwater to include only rigid targets, planned economy, including the penal system, and in addition the railway infrastructure without impact assessment. i think that would be bad legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we all know that we must promote infrastructure development in all the eu member states, not just a few. i therefore urge you to support the epp's proposals. make sure that we get an infrastructure that actually benefits the citizens in the end and that no money is wasted.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of emission reduction ahead for shipping, with some 98% of ships still running on fossil fuels. we are on the verge of a very broad but quite inevitable breakthrough, where the eu will show the world the way. the role of the legislator is to provide shipyards, ports and the maritime sector as a whole with a stable and clear vision of the future of the sector. only then can new innovations and new businesses be created. ships, ports and their infrastructure cannot be combined in a single mould due to the challenges posed by, for example, winter navigation. we need to put in place all the sustainable solutions from new hydrogen-based fuels to liquefied biogas and new wind-based innovations, not to mention the shore-side electricity capacity of ports. i would like to thank all the co-negotiators and especially the rapporteur, mr warborn, under whose leadership we have negotiated together a realistic, pragmatic and also ambitious package of parliament's position. a europe that lives by exporting needs a clear and fair operating environment for the maritime sector in order to safeguard europe's competitiveness in the future. towards that goal by 2050, the legislation for zero-emission shipping is key.
let me tell you that, due to time constraints, i will close the request for ‘catch the eye’, respecting the requests that have already been made.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, just under ten years after the first directive on alternative fuels infrastructure, for which i was rapporteur, and already working with mr ertug, whom i thank for his cooperation, a regulation was adopted to give industry, traders and consumers a clearer picture. i must say frankly that we would have expected, especially after the crisis and the war in ukraine, a pause in reflection, a pause in reflection on the whole package of 'fit for 55', which is still being used in an ideological sense, and i must say that, unfortunately, this regulation is also affected by this approach. it is a piece of an ideology that is pushing us too fast to switch to all-electric, ignoring what the geopolitical consequences of our dependence on china, which, as we know, now owns most of the technology and raw materials, can be. a social consequence, because we are ignoring the impact that this top-down revolution will have on the pockets of european citizens and also of the member states, because it is still not clear who should pay for this accelerated transition. the commission's approach is therefore to make an ideological approach into a european regulation, ignoring, i must say, the principle of technological neutrality, which is not sufficiently protected in this regulation. you see, they hide all this, they sell all this as something ambitious, but when ambition refuses to deal with reality, it risks becoming utopia, and utopias, as we know, have very often generated very substantial damage.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the path to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the maritime sector must be set in the context of scientific and technological progress and take account of the means and starting conditions and needs of each state in the context of its development and sovereignty strategies. the one-size-fits-all approach, which is binding on all, imposes biases, exacerbates asymmetries in favour of and in the service of markets and the liberalisation of the shipping and port sectors. the economic groups and european powers that lead these ambitions win. this approach ignores the various consequences of liberalizing these sectors, and it ignores the link between the development of unregulated international trade and emissions and the need for mutually beneficial trade relations based on the right to food sovereignty, the safeguarding of national production, the reduction of production-consumption circuits, the defence of social rights and respect for the environment and biodiversity. the discussion should focus on the development opportunities of each country in accordance with its needs, in the context of reversing the processes of liberalisation and privatisation of the maritime and port sectors and the recovery of public control of strategic sectors, and at the same time consider the challenges posed by the development opportunities of the shipping industry and related industries in each country provided by these directives. it is this perspective of sovereign development and cooperation that serves countries and peoples.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels. all this is a huge additional cost for member states at a time when there is an economic crisis, a risk of recession. there may also be problems with the use of the infrastructure to be built. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on energy efficiency and renewable energy, in particular by ensuring that the union's energy efficiency targets are met. greening has to be inclusive. i think we should work on the regulation and the appropriate support system. paper can do it all, but the citizens of the union need a workable, realistic regulation.
mr president, madam commissioner, over the past year we should all have seen that europe’s prosperity is in direct relation with its independence – independence from imported fuels and energy sources. the war in ukraine has forced us to take a hard look at problems that we have turned a blind eye to for a long time. on the other hand, the environmental catastrophe is not just knocking on the door, but it is making its way across the continent. decarbonising transport offers excellent opportunities to take a step toward a real change. by shifting to a sustainable, renewable and efficient energy solution across all transport modes, the union can reduce greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution to improve citizen’s quality of life and create new high-quality jobs while modernising and strengthening european industry and its competitiveness. and i want to thank mr ertug and mr warborn and of course, all the shadows, for their outstanding job on the two reports and to encourage my colleagues to support the outcome achieved in the tran committee. and yes, i do realise that some measures might be painful, but paying the price today will guarantee our benefit tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to welcome the report that has been tabled and congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on what has been achieved, as i know from my experience as the epp shadow rapporteur on the committee on the environment, a very, very difficult compromise. secondly, i must warn you of the risks i have seen in the work of the committee and in the debate today. first of all, the risk that the proposed text offers too little freedom for the market to define the technologies that will enable us to achieve clean and sustainable mobility. we have to realize that we owe all the technological breakthroughs that we enjoy today, and that in large part lead to a cleaner and more sustainable environment, to the private enterprise market, to the creativity of inventors and entrepreneurs, and not least to market competition.
mr. chairman! where are you taking us, ladies and gentlemen, where are you pushing europe, this europe that generations have fought for so that we can all live in peace? why do we hear every day calls for arms and not for diplomatic negotiations? why are you talking about a possible nuclear disaster and not about a european strategy to stop the fratricidal conflict? do we already have a european war commissioner? yes, it is unacceptable that bombs fall on the european continent. but what did brussels do to prevent the ukraine nightmare? the minsk agreements were your responsibility, now peace is our responsibility. tell us who is now the european commissioner of war and why we do not hear his concern about who and why blew up the nord stream? who's trying to destroy south stream? who fired on europe's largest nuclear power plant? bulgaria is only a few kilometers, a few hundred kilometers from the war and tomorrow the fire could spread to us because we have been silent when we should have spoken. we have a duty to stop europe's self-destruction, and what is needed today is not tanks, but wisdom and bold decisions.
mr president, critical thinking and freedom of expression are two of the pillars of europe. russian disinformation is a constant topic here. the propaganda war in which our media and institutions are being exploited from outside is also alarming. in our posts and media we read that russia simultaneously occupied the zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant and bombed it itself, that putin first built and then blew up nord stream himself. what does chairman von der leyen offer us with his call for a war to the last man against a nuclear power? nuclear war and drowning in propaganda conformity are two paths to self-destruction, and europeans are waiting for peace initiatives from brussels. peace is the essence of the european project. when we agree to finance the war, to relay the propaganda, we sacrifice the authority, the principles and the future of the union.
mr president, dear commissioner, minister, colleagues, let me be, as usual, very straightforward. i am deeply concerned by the ease and speed with which the council, including my own government, approved the windfall tax. i am concerned because a windfall tax does not necessarily reduce bills, which is the theme of our debate, but rather subsidises the most unsustainable of all forms of electric generation – those from natural gas, it distorts natural market incentives and eventually jeopardises the business plans and investments of more sustainable and viable alternatives. and i am extremely concerned by the populist zeal with which this house discusses extension of the windfall tax to other businesses. it is market—based innovation and competition that could lead us out of this crisis, and not breaking the free market.
mr. president, commissioner, as a member of the development committee, i wish to express my deep dissatisfaction at the wholly inadequate allocation of humanitarian aid funding for 2023. i do so in the context of the vast increase in humanitarian need: a further 40 million people in humanitarian need this year alone. i do so in the context of the many resolutions that we have passed expressing our solidarity with the women and girls of afghanistan, with the floods in pakistan, with the humanitarian consequences of the crisis in ukraine. and i do so in the context of your own commitment, commissioner, on 7 june, that the amending letter would be to better account for the impact of the war on humanitarian needs and food security. and yet the proposal still stands at less than the 2022 allocation despite those factors. i recognise the difficulties that the rapporteurs have had to deal with. i recognise the collaborative approach of mr ștefănuță, and i really, really welcome that, and i acknowledge the difficulties here. and i know that everyone loses in budget negotiations, but if we’re not careful, people will lose their lives because of this allocation.
mr president, commissioner, i don’t remember the last time when we adopted the budgeting piece for an ordinary time. if somebody remembers, please let me know. but i do not. and it looks like this is the new normal. i welcome the efforts to spend the unused 40 billion to support families and small businesses across europe with these difficult times. i think we have a very important role as members of this parliament, and the role is to tell the story to a bus driver in germany, to a farmer in spain or a grocery store owner in bulgaria. what is the european budget doing for them? in order to tell the story, we need a key element of this proposal. how many families will be supported? with how much per family? plus how many small businesses will be supported? for what? these are all questions that we seek answers to, and in order to be more efficient, we have to know. we often debate here about the lack of energy resources, a lack of gas, a lack of liquidity in our funds. but we don’t speak about the lack of trust in the union. so in order to be more effective, we have to explain in a very simple manner to our voters what is this union doing with this budget for every single citizen in times of war?
mr president, i am increasingly convinced, to my regret, that the european union is aiming to create a society of uneducated and uncultured people who are easily manipulated and lied to. i cannot otherwise explain the fact that the commission is proposing a budget for 'creative europe' and 'erasmus+' that is 20% smaller in the next two years than in the previous two. culture and education have been hit the hardest, i can say that for sure, and they continue to recover slowly and with difficulty after the covid pandemic. artists and performers have been left without any livelihood, students have lost more than a year in distance learning. there is no pandemic now, but there is inflation and an energy crisis, problems for which the commission is responsible, in my opinion. at that point, we must make sure that the most vulnerable sectors are saved. but as usual, the money for culture and education is always cut first. despite attempts to correct this absurd and negligent approach, the 2023 money is already downright ridiculous. once again, european politicians have explained ... (the president interrupts)
blue-card speech. – so, dear colleague, do you know where is the town of bitola? the town of bitola is one of the major cities in so—called north macedonia. there are bulgarians there – good guys. they created a cultural club. well, this club was attacked and set on fire. what is your comment? by government—led arsonists. what is your comment? i want to know.
madam chairman, i'm going to be extremely direct. i find the european union's approach to the western balkans to be totally illogical, confusing and downright harmful to the european union. contrary to the stated intentions, the western balkans is currently in chaos because there is no consistent enforcement of the imposed requirements. it's like it's being done on purpose, like someone wants a war. i don't want to remind you that wars usually start in the balkans. is that what you want to provoke? a country that is persecuting bulgarians in north macedonia cannot be allowed to enter the negotiation phase, and how exactly are you going to justify this terror that is being imposed there? i'm talking to the greens specifically, who are very fond of north macedonia, i don't know why? names are being destroyed, history is being changed, and my country is being stolen. macedonia has no history until '46, and never had one. if you want to cause trouble...
madam president, faced with an unprecedented crisis, we are aware of the need for open dialogue with our european neighbours. so, at the beginning of october, we witnessed the leaders of the countries of europe coming together for an event that would in the near future define the relationship of the european union with the rest of the continent - the founding of the european political community. so ladies and gentlemen, this is a platform, i would say, to foster the political dialogue that we always need and the cooperation to address issues of common interest and to strengthen stability, security and prosperity. it should be stressed once again that it does not replace any political organisation, structure or process. on the contrary, the european political community is a testament to the importance of exchanging views in the difficult times we are living in. by organizing such a broad format of conversation, we have further demonstrated and proved the importance of multilateralism in today's international relations. in addition, the european union has confirmed that it still has the power to bring together states in its immediate neighbourhood. this display of soft power carries significant geopolitical weight on a continent facing the greatest conflict since world war ii. yes, there were many challenges discussed, from respect for international law, to the economy, to energy security... and yes, the croatian prime minister was there. by increasing the capacity of the lng terminal on the island of krk, croatia will have the possibility to supply slovenia, slovakia, bosnia and herzegovina and hungary, thanks to the government led by prime minister plenkovic for six years, today. so the bizarre assessments of a populist character that we heard earlier, whose authors, colleagues, were guests of russia at various political rallies.
madam president, the european political community must first prove what it is not. it must not in any way slow down the processes of further enlargement of the european union, let alone become an alternative to full membership of the european union. in the midst of russian aggression in ukraine and far-reaching geopolitical changes, we really must not dilute the renewed interest in enlargement policy after a long time. moreover, it will be very difficult to maintain a structure that would position itself somewhere between the established procedures of the european union and the looseness of the informal political forum. skepticism is also generated by the fact that such a wide network of participants implies a highly heterogeneous society, in many respects. with so many different interests at stake, the chances are that no one will be satisfied in the end. finally, i believe that such a community, by introducing divergent political values, represents an uncertain benefit to the european project itself. the uk's demand that the flags of the european union be removed from the founding assembly, for example, perhaps best illustrates the depth of the contradiction between the ambitions and the reality of european political community.
madam president, what is the european political community? so far, 44 european heads of state and government have met in prague to discuss the threats to our democracies. these are countries with varying degrees of european integration; 27 are members of the european union, 30 are members of the european economic area, 28 are members of nato, all are members of the council of europe and the osce. this leads me to two points. firstly, if, as decided in prague, this structure is to become permanent, it is not intended to replace the council of europe or the osce. secondly, the date of the first meeting was well chosen to show that, beyond our traditional differences, we reject barbarism. finally, it is to be welcomed that most european countries remain united around a foundation of rights and duties which implies adherence to the civilizing values which are the foundation of the free world.
madam president! despite some sceptical voices, i believe that the european political community can play an important role in agreeing a common position and consolidating european countries in the current situation of russian aggression against ukraine. the format of this committee is what matters. it is made up of countries that do not want to join the european union, like switzerland, or return to it, like the united kingdom. and i would remind you that the european political and cultural community is broader than the european union itself. the uk provides more military aid to ukraine than countries such as germany and france, and thus contributes more to the security of the eu countries neighbouring russia than those countries. switzerland is providing humanitarian aid to ukraine. so it's good that there's a new format that we can work with these countries and other countries.
madam president, commissioner, allow me to thank the czech presidency and to say that i am proud of the way in which you have managed to organise this european political community, to give it both form and substance. the project is of the greatest geopolitical significance. it is undoubtedly a space for dialogue, for meeting, but it is precisely in view of the russian aggression in ukraine that it is a clear expression of the unity of the continent against this aggression. the european political community must not become a double-edged sword in the enlargement of the european union. on the one hand, it can be a springboard for the eastern partnership countries aspiring to membership and an expression of their engagement at the highest level of european politics. on the other hand, it cannot be a kind of storage place for these countries, an unwanted alternative to membership. in 1991, france came up with the project of the european confederation, which basically had this objective: to establish political contact, dialogue with the post-communist countries, while preventing them from joining what was then the european community. the post-communist countries rejected this vision because they were clearly moving towards eu integration, and they did the right thing. the fact that this idea is not dead has been emphasized by mr lebreton here today. the meaning and future shape of the european political community will certainly crystallize in the years ahead. the content orientation of this platform will certainly always be security-related. that is why the participation of the uk and turkey is crucial. one thing is certain now. prague will go down in history as the place where 44 european leaders met for the first time in the new format. in history books, there will be photographs of leaders from the vladislav hall of prague castle, a place where european history was made as early as the time of emperor charles iv in the fourteenth century.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we want europe to be strong enough to better protect the social and economic rights of its citizens, it must be independent. strategic autonomy, the building of our security and defence system, are the basis of this prosperity. it also means interdependence, between the member states of the european union that share common values, but also through cooperation with other european countries. the protection of shared infrastructure, after the nordstream attacks, should be a common concern and policy. the european political community is also a forum where turkey's pragmatic approach and its mediating role in the war in ukraine could be discussed. but today we cannot replace the responsibility of the european union, where difficult decisions are taken unanimously, taking into account the interests of each member state. it is a guarantee that we will stay together, to be stronger too.
mr. president, i would like to president, commissioner, the g20 focuses on food security and the global challenges it raises. the war in ukraine has clearly shown us that the european union needs a comprehensive approach to food security and, in the long term, food independence. to ensure that food is accessible and available, we need to accelerate the transformation towards sustainable agriculture and production systems that are able to withstand shocks and crises. the key for european farmers at the moment is to continue the anti-crisis support, especially for the most affected livestock farmers and small farms, and to set new higher ceilings for state aid. colleagues, in conclusion, let me conclude with a bulgarian proverb: "no one is greater than bread and no one should be deprived of it".
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this discussion and comments, which we will certainly consider in our work in support of the ukrainian research and innovation scene. i have to say i am here always on topics which have a more or less divisive nature, and i have never experienced such a unanimous support for the case. so thank you very much, from left to right, from the middle. thank you. as we heard at the beginning, it is our obligation to help our ukrainian friends and i’m very much grateful to parliament for showing very clearly that this is exactly what we continue to do. i still owe you some information on top of what i described at the beginning. i wanted to add that we have appointed the ukraine-based ambassador of the european innovation council to feed us this information from the ukrainian innovation scene. we have also implemented dedicated support measures such as a eur 25 million fellowship scheme under the marie skłodowska-curie actions and eur 20 million support by the european innovation council, which should reach at least 200 ukrainian deep-tech start-ups in and out of the country. beyond our research and innovation programmes, the commission supports scientists’ engagement and responsible research through the science and technology centre of ukraine. the key objective is to prevent the brain drain of the dual-use knowledge from ukraine to malevolent states. finally, anticipating ukraine’s recovery, we are already considering how we could facilitate and complement physical reconstruction efforts. under horizon europe and euratom programmes we are proposing projects to build knowledge and reinforce ukrainian skills and capacity in the areas of research infrastructures, climate-neutral cities and nuclear safety and security. the spirit of solidarity with ukraine and its research and innovation community continues to hold strong. so thank you very much once again for this opportunity to present to you our work in support of ukraine.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! in this difficult time, our mission is to support the ukrainian scientific community in surviving the war and to help ensure the continuation of ukrainian science, both in terms of education and strengthening its presence in the international scientific arena. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. we are pleased that on 30 march this year, at the meeting of the committee of senior officials cost (european cooperation in science and technology), the member states voted to admit ukraine as a cost full member. the decision to accept was unanimous. i would like to emphasise that a set of information for ukrainian students and researchers was developed on the basis of various sources, and poland was the first member of the european euraxess network to prepare information on the possibility of receiving funding in the form of a grant or employment, as well as other support related to arrival and stay in the polish territory. as part of the euraxess network, the ec has launched the era4ukraine portal, which points out european initiatives to interested parties (such as the erc for ukraine, horizon4ukraine). the portal provides basic information for ukrainian citizens on employment opportunities, scholarships, the recognition of diplomas, as well as practical issues such as accommodation, language learning and contact details of diplomatic missions.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
a uachtaráin, journalists play a crucial and significant role in ensuring the transparency, accountability and openness of our political institutions. the murder of anti-corruption investigative journalist daphne galizia five years ago is a scar on the face of democracy. i therefore welcome the resolution denouncing persistent flaws with the rule of law in malta. i would also like to commend my colleague david casa for his continued work in championing this topic and resolution. today’s resolution reaffirms the european parliament’s calls for malta to fight against corruption and ensure the freedom of the press is enforced and guaranteed. malta must also ensure that the rule of law – a key european value – is upheld. the european union is built on democratic values, the rule of law, and the freedom of the press. the heinous murder of daphne five years ago goes against all of these values. ensuring the true freedom of the press means ensuring the protection of our democracy.
mr. president, a free country is not truly free unless it has a free press. unfortunately, we in romania know very well what that means. since communist times and even now, the press is too often controlled. there is no way for a press to be free if it is controlled by politicians. and unfortunately, again, in romania, a large part of the press is controlled by politicians, even former security officials, but also by criminals, by people convicted mostly of corruption. unfortunately, today in romania, again, journalists are being persecuted. unfortunately, one of the most famous cases is that of emilie shercan, a journalist who exposed cases of politicians stealing, and that's why there were compromising campaigns against her. if we in this house, in this parliament, are not taking action to stop this from happening again, then why are we here?
mr president, i supported the resolution on the rule of law in malta five years after the murder of journalist daphne galicia because i believe that through her work she has succeeded in raising the issue of corruption in her society, money laundering on a particularly large scale and unfortunately paid for it with her life. the resolution is balanced, welcoming the additional capacity that is being provided for the investigation and prosecution of such crimes. the european parliament therefore expresses its concern that obstacles to freedom of expression and freedom of opinion in the media continue to exist. when i talk about different opinions, i'm not just talking about those that are comfortable with these media and those in so-called mainstream society. i think that in its present form the resolution covers these aspects and the fact that it is supported by all the groups shows its good content.
a uachtaráin, today i voted to strongly condemn the growing level of hate crimes against the lgbtqi community in europe. this comes in light of the brutal and unjustified murder of two young men in slovakia by far—right and radicalised gunmen. no person should ever feel threatened or unsafe as a result of their sexual orientation. that is why today i stand as an ally with the lgbtq community and i call for an end to hate—fuelled rhetoric and violence. we all have a role in ensuring respect and decency towards every person in our community. the hatred fuelled by the far right and homophobic groups has led to fear, violence and terror. we must put an end to this intolerance and intimidation. human dignity is a fundamental human right that every person deserves. the malicious attack in slovakia, killing two young men, as well as the growing number of hate crimes, go directly against this value. today, we reaffirm our commitment to human dignity. we condemn all heinous murders motivated by hatred and prejudice.
mr. chairman, i voted against this resolution for several reasons. first, crimes, murders must be prosecuted, punished, regardless of the identity of either the perpetrator or the victim. this is the work of criminal justice, this is the work of criminal law, because otherwise, in this room, ideological explanations are being created, ideological reasons and ideological justifications for one or another act. mr. president, in europe and in bulgaria, there are many crimes, unfortunately, which are committed, for example, because of the religious motives of the perpetrator. both in france and in germany, where you are from, there are jihadist and muslim islamist groups who commit crime because of their motives. in bulgaria, many crimes are committed by the inhabitants of the slums. should these people be punished more severely for their origins? and let me raise the issue of self-determination once again. should the perpetrator be punished if he defines himself in one way or another? i think not, there should be justice.
mr. chairman, i also voted in favour of the motion. my colleague jambazky has said a lot of the things i wanted to say, and i am categorically against this resolution, because this thing is absolute hypocrisy and some kind of total ideology of bolshevism, in my understanding. thousands of people, hundreds of thousands unfortunately, are killed every year for all sorts of reasons. why don't you ever talk, as your colleague jambazki said, about the gypsies who rob and kill the pensioners in bulgaria? isn't that the result of hate? and the other thing i want to say to you is that victims of a particular sexual orientation don't mean that it's just hatred of certain people. some man did it, he thinks so. in the same way, workers are killed, astronauts are killed. shouldn't we make some kind of resolution for the astronauts? you do realize that this uneven representation of things is absurd, right? all men are equal before god and the law.
madam president, another climate change conference has passed. the developed countries are shook by responsibilities, the targets for reducing emissions remain insufficient, the paths of individual responsibility, of capital accumulation, of appropriation of natural resources are deepening. environmental problems are either not being solved or are getting worse. social inequalities are accentuated. the development of countries is conditioned. for developing countries: debt. for the financial system: transfer mechanisms for funds. the carbon market does not reduce emissions, it does not guarantee profits and it does not normalize the right to pollute for those who can afford it. the perversity of the so-called green economy and the inability of capitalism to respond to humanity's and the environment's problems are increasingly being exposed. other responses are needed: public control of strategic sectors such as energy; the need for public transport; the promotion of local production and consumption; the guarantee of the right of each state to produce and to food sovereignty; public control of water; the fight against planned obsolescence; the rejection of war. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
madam president, bulgaria is not a second-rate member of the european union and we have proven this many times over the years. when we guard the external borders of the european union, we get a pat on the back. when we show solidarity with greece's financial problems, we get another pat on the back. when we comply with european cabotage rules to the detriment of our transport business, we get a pat on the back again. 11 years ago we proved that we meet all the technical requirements for the schengen area, but to this day we are not suitable for you. i'm addressing the prime minister of the netherlands. any additional conditions you're putting, mr. ruthe, have nothing to do with the written rules of schengen. let me tell you something about the bulgarian society. if bulgaria gets another rejection of schengen in december, the mistrust in the european union will increase. and your decisions directly affect the functioning of the european union. do not betray us!
madam president, on november 15th, a ukrainian missile killed two european citizens of poland, which russia was blamed for. we've lived through 24 hours in which war could have set the whole continent ablaze. the european parliament has for years condemned russia's behaviour on good grounds. but what worries us is the willful blindness of the authorities in kiev. our union uncritically supports ukraine, thereby legitimising disinformation, provocations and abuses of trust by kiev. we are allowing the european institutions to be used as instruments in a military conflict that could blow up our own home. we were silent when the zaporozhian nuclear plant was fired upon. we are silent even now, when the ukrainian authorities, with their claims about the origin of the missiles, have de facto set the stage for the involvement of the union in the conflict through the mechanisms of nato. the european commission must realise the scale of the risk and come up with a peace initiative that the citizens of europe have been waiting for in vain for nine months.
member of the commission. – mr president, in a few hours, we will celebrate 70 years of the european parliament. from very humble beginnings has grown this great house of european democracy. and as members of this house, this is for you a moment of great pride and solemn reflection, as it is for me a great honour to speak here today and every other day. today, as we speak about the resilience of our critical infrastructure, i think about the resilience of the ukrainian people. last tuesday, russia launched 100 missiles, leaving 50 % of kyiv, 80 % of lviv, and 90 % of ternopil without electricity. the goal? let me quote andrey gurulyov – a russian state duma representative. this is what he said, ‘one week after all electricity is cut off, the city of kyiv will be swimming in shit. there will be a clear threat of an epidemic’. the words of a russian lawmaker, not mine. how calculating, how callous, how cold-hearted can you be to call on national tv to freeze, starve and terrorize civilians into submission? showing us the will to destroy critical infrastructure; a blatant disregard for human life of a regime that’s hostile to the european union. just think: there is a map somewhere in moscow pinpointing hospitals, power plants and water supply as targets. at the end of september in the shallow waters of the baltic, at 80 metres deep, a series of explosions tore gaping holes in the nord stream pipelines, one of them 50 meters wide, causing on the surface a maelstrom of whirling water one kilometre wide. up to 400 000 tonnes of methane escaped. an act of sabotage and it is not yet clarified who did it. but it happened just after putin’s mobilisation, just when russia was conducting fake referendums and just before putin’s illegal annexations. about two weeks later, unknown perpetrators paralysed rail traffic in north germany, disrupting rail links to the netherlands and denmark by cutting fibre optic communication cables. the attackers are so far unknown, but the message is clear, ‘we know where you are weak. we know where to strike, any time we like’. at the meeting of the g7 last week, i made clear the eu utterly condemned these acts of sabotage. we will not be intimidated. we will not tolerate these wanton attacks. we will defend ourselves. and we can do that, thanks to you. thanks to the political agreements this parliament reached with the council this summer. first to strengthen our cybersecurity. russian cyber-attacks against ukraine already caused damage in the eu, disrupting the internet in central europe. the nis2 directive you approved with overwhelming majority will help us fight cyber threats that do real world harm. and today you will vote on the directive improving the resilience of our critical entities, greatly expanding the sectors we will protect. beyond energy and transport today, also banking and finance and space, drinking water, wastewater, health, food and more. sharing information on incidents much more quickly, while allowing member states to protect sensitive information. we need to do more. last month, this parliament called on member states to protect critical infrastructure as a matter of priority. and here in this parliament, president von der leyen announced further steps. as a result, we proposed a council recommendation. we are asking member states to carry out stress tests. that’s our most urgent task right now, to make sure our critical infrastructure can resist any act of sabotage or attack. starting with the energy sector – under such brutal attack now in ukraine. and we call on member states to start to implement the directive on critical entities already now. adopt or update national strategies already now. already now, start to identify entities critical to society and the economy. i expect swift entry into force early next year, but it will take nearly two years to write this directive into national laws and we cannot afford to waste a single moment when rockets have already fallen on european soil. let’s build up our preparedness already now. now crank up our response – through the union civil protection mechanism – already now. and scale up our cooperation with nato and other international partners already now. honourable members, we must never forget attacks on infrastructure or attacks on people. so, dear michal, dear rapporteur šimečka, dear shadows, thank you for helping to protect europe and protect people. you completed your important work not a moment too soon. more attacks may come. worse attacks may come. and when this house passes this legislation today, we will be better prepared to meet them.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already done so. critical infrastructure, that is vital infrastructure, and it is important that the european union as a whole takes care of maintaining this infrastructure in the event of a crisis. i thank the rapporteur, i thank the shadow rapporteurs for the good negotiations. three things were important to me to anchor in these negotiations. first, those who are responsible for a critical infrastructure unit deserve public respect. we must make it possible in europe to communicate clearly that this means something for safety, for the quality of life, for prevention, for possible crises. secondly, what is done for the public must be funded by the public. this means that we do not want to impose additional burdens where someone is taking responsibility for units of critical infrastructure, but that we want to enable it to work. and third, the local food supply was important to me. the hybrid attacks that putin's war with russia has shown: food chains to europe and other parts of the world are also important. and with all of that, with the protection of critical infrastructure, we're facing this world of confrontation with our approach of cooperation, but also of prevention for future crises.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mr the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. transport is a key sector, connectivity is important, and of course critical infrastructure needs to be regulated, valued and protected. but when we talk about these things, inevitably, a contradiction and a very strong disagreement comes to light. there's going to be a lot of talk about this report on connectivity, how you should evaluate infrastructure and so on. at the same time, some member states continue to block the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. what kind of connection are we talking about, given that it takes 12 hours to travel from ruse to bucharest, which is 70 kilometres apart, commissioner, how can this work? you see the discrepancy between words and deeds again. for 11 years now, both countries have met all the technical criteria, they meet the requirements, but they are not part of the schengen area and this is absolutely unfair to our citizens, to our transport, to our infrastructure and to our business. so when you talk about these things, you have to first see the issues of bulgaria and romania joining schengen, so that this area can be completed and so that it can be fully assessed and worked on.
on behalf of the ppe group. the vulnerability of our strategic infrastructures is obvious to all. in fact, in recent years we have seen an increase in hybrid attacks due to both climate change and domestic threats and terrorism, not to mention pandemics, and then war that has put the security of our continent at risk. today more than ever it is essential to defend the proper functioning of our critical infrastructures, to make them more resilient so that they can ensure their proper functioning for the benefit of our economies and the single market. the risks are clear, it has been said. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. i therefore welcome the strengthening of the rules aimed at increasing the resilience of structures and infrastructure that are strategic for the provision of services and the pursuit of essential economic activities and i am pleased to have achieved an extension of the areas of application of this directive to the agri-food sector. i am referring in particular to the large wholesale markets, which are obviously recognised in this measure as strategic infrastructures. the functioning of the agri-food chain is an essential service for the well-being of our society and wholesale markets are fundamental, as structures of public interest, just think that, thanks to them, during the pandemic, the blockage of the agri-food system was avoided in many countries and it was possible to ensure the supply and distribution of foodstuffs.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like, first of all, to thank the rapporteur, of course, and all the shadows for the excellent work that they have managed to provide, because i am absolutely positive that especially after 24 of february, nobody’s going to underestimate the importance of this file since we are witnessing how peace and democracy depend on the level of security and on the strength of our critical systems, transport, energy, water and so on and so forth. critical entities are the providers of essential services, and in this increasingly interdependent union they play an indispensable role in the maintenance of economic activities in the internal market. and i remember in the beginning of the negotiations that we were discussing the essence of the essential services. i’m glad that during this negotiations, this definition was finally precisely detailed, and it includes also the safeguarding of public health and safety, the environment, and not just the continuation of the economic functions. i’m also glad that in these negotiations we were guaranteeing the additional financial support to those critical entities. now every member state should be required to adopt a national strategy to guarantee the resilience of critical industries, to carry out regular risk assessment and based on this assessment, to identify critical entities. also entities that provide services to six or more member states will be subject to specific oversight. so i think that a lot of improvements were made, and i am sure that with the adoption of this legislation, we will be absolutely better prepared to face any future challenges before the european union.
madam president, commissioner, mr pizzula, the report is convincing in general, but unfortunately it is unconvincing in a number of details. the argument for abolishing unanimity in decision-making on enlargement policy is too controversial. a member of a family is made by mutual consent. is it not clear that serbia is behaving like a second russian state in the balkans? the report talks about bilateral disputes, but the rights of bulgarians in north macedonia are not a bilateral but a european issue. human rights are a common european value. this country promised to write the bulgarians into its constitution, but instead the communist interpretation of the past continues to be its official policy. the main language is the hatred against european bulgaria. the agreement with bulgaria is not implemented. so i urge you: let's dream, but let's also be realistic.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr minister, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, of the 234 migrants who arrived in france on board the ngo ocean viking, only six people are still under the control of the french authorities, or perhaps four today. the others were released and - what a surprise! - immediately disappeared to france. this is the terrifying result of a policy of open borders: hundreds of undocumented people roaming freely in europe, posing no one knows what threat to the security of european citizens. the message of this case is disastrous for europe. the more ships we allow to dock, the more ships will follow. viktor orbán and matteo salvini proved years ago that borders can be defended - on land and on the sea too - if there is the political will to do so. the italian prime minister, giorgia meloni, is right: the only common solution is to defend the eu's borders, block the departure of migrant boats and open hotspots outside europe. let us be clear: the doors of europe are not open to everyone and to just anyone. we must restore order and security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's debate has once again confirmed that when we talk about immigration we are liable to be misunderstood. and unfortunately, there is a widespread misperception that there are the good guys, the ones who integrate and welcome human life, and there are the bad guys, the ones who are just trying to govern migration processes. i believe that there cannot be such a simplistic and categorical view, but there must be a common approach and a common response, but above all a european one. we all, including those in this house, claim and are proud of european values, including solidarity, but we seem to interpret them externally, but not internally. i cannot ignore the fact that this issue particularly affects my country and a few other countries, and i cannot fail to stress the difficulties and the efforts we are making to deal with this problem in the best possible way. there is no question of migrants for italy, nor for any single state, there is a question of migrants for europe. the italian coast, like other borders, is part of the european union's borders, but italy cannot do it alone, nor can anyone else do it alone. we need a european strategy that involves everyone and in which everyone plays their part. we need a proposal to prevent illegal immigration and human trafficking, we need to open up humanitarian corridors, we need to provide for compulsory and non-voluntary relocation, but above all we need an extraordinary economic plan for africa and for all those countries where the problem is at its root, to prevent the creation of conditions that prevent these people from fleeing. the thousands of deaths in the mediterranean are a defeat and a burden for all of us, no one excluded. and then we cannot go back, we must only go forward to avoid adding to this burden.
mr president, commissioner schinas, commissioner johansson, almost ten years ago europe was witness to the tragedy of lampedusa. it was a wake-up call for all of us. it was a wake-up call for solidarity and better coordination. almost 5,000 people have died in the mediterranean since 2014 and we continue to count, we record tragedies and we hide behind excuses. we debate, but we change nothing. we must collectively manage search and rescue operations. we cannot leave some member states alone and punish them for their geographical location. we cannot, of course, erase tragedies, but we can stop them in the future. and the answer is very simple: put european unity ahead of national politics. our migration and asylum policy can no longer be held hostage by populists and we will have to stop relying constantly on ad hoc solutions, but always react to a tragedy. we'll have to stop all this from happening, stop debating and start working.
madam chairman, commissioner simpson, the minister beck, there's only one way to deal with this crisis. we must act as one and act quickly. we must act as one to protect the most vulnerable in our societies now and immediately. concrete measures are needed to meet the challenges of the energy crisis: in the short term, a change in electricity pricing to reduce the bills of citizens and industry. energy saving and a clear definition of energy poor households so that public resources and efforts can be targeted at them; in the medium term work on common energy supplies and investments in energy efficiency; in the long term we need to continue to develop new technologies and infrastructure to build a truly connected european energy market. we need to invest more in renewable energy and basic energy capacities like nuclear power. it's the only way to ensure a lasting reduction in the bills of households and industry.
in writing. despite significant progress in the fight for gender equality, gender-based violence remains a major problem in the guarantee of human rights. regardless of race, ethnicity, religion or age, this violence affects one in three women and girls in europe. there is another dimension to the problem, one that affects the most innocent of children. because of their vulnerability, children who witness violence against women or domestic violence are exposed to direct emotional harm that affects their development. such children should therefore be considered as victims and should benefit from targeted protection measures. i want to emphasise once again that violence has no place in the union. when it comes to gender equality and violence against women, i am sure that we are all a team and that everyone can contribute to the total elimination of this phenomenon. the key to this is education for both women and men. at the same time, member states should ensure that preventive measures, such as awareness-raising campaigns, are taken. i will continue to support policies that do this until no woman is afraid to stand up to her abuser and speak out about the harassment she has been subjected to.
author. – mr president, first the coman—hamilton case in 2019, and now the baby sara case. how many european court of justice cases do we need to guarantee the mutual recognition of administrative documents and parenthood between member states? how many court decisions will be needed for children’s rights to be respected in europe? this is not merely another lgbtiq question, but concerns the rights of children and european citizens, which are openly flouted by some of our governments. and despite the adversarial stance of these nationalist and populist governments, the reaction of the european commission, which is responsible for protecting the core values of the eu, has been rather weak. ‘human rights apply to all eu citizens in all their diversity’, this is, in short, the tenet that the commission has promised to defend since the beginning of this mandate. these words must be translated into legislative texts and into sanctions against those who choose to undermine them. and when i see the relentless fight of rainbow families for the respect of their rights, i am both inspired and i am mad. inspired for the fortitude for these families who persevere through their struggle, even though their struggle often looks like a battle between david and goliath. and mad because our institutions do not adequately support them in the fight for their rights. when i entered politics, i made a pledge to myself: i will always stand by the most vulnerable groups, no matter how much time and energy i will have to expend for their causes. in this battle, you can count on me. i’m happy to see that, as a co—chair of the lgbti intergroup, but also as an s&d member of this house, i am not alone. i can count on the queer community, but also on our allies in the parliament and beyond. here are my questions: is the commission ready to use legal tools to ensure enforcement of free movement law? what actions will the commission take to ensure that a national measure does not preclude implementation of judgments and to make sure eu law is not violated? dear council and commission, on which side of the fight do you want to be? recognising diverse families benefits everyone, and it takes no one’s existing rights away. europe must guarantee all children to see their family acknowledged and validated by law. by the way, baby sara is not a baby any more – she will turn three years old, and is still undocumented.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i thank you for your questions on the legal protection for rainbow families exercising free movement. i start by recalling that, in recent years, the court of justice of the eu has issued three landmark decisions on the rights of rainbow families exercising free movement, namely coman, v.m.a. or the baby sara case, and k.s. in this context, the court delivered major clarifications. it held that while member states are allowed not to provide in their national legislation for marriages and parenthood of same sex couples, this situation cannot justify a refusal to accept for the purpose of the exercise of rights, derived from eu law, marriages and parenthood established in another member state, regardless of sexual orientation. you have inquired about the commission’s action to ensure that eu free movement law is enforced, and that this case law is respected. the implementation of eu law, as interpreted by the court of justice, is a commission’s priority. as stated in the lgbtiq equality strategy, the commission will continue to ensure the correct application of free movement law, including to address specific difficulties preventing lgbtiq people and their families from enjoying their rights. the commission is monitoring the implementation of the court’s judgment on rainbow families in free movement, and is in dialogue with member states in this regard. if necessary, the commission will take legal action. nonetheless, legal action is neither the only nor the fastest way to achieve results. furthermore, in the 2020 citizenship report, the commission announced the review of its 2009 guideline guidance for better transposition and application of the free movement directive. the updated guidance, the drafting of which is at an advanced stage, will take into account the diversity of families and, therefore, help all families exercise their free—movement—related rights. more particularly, the commission intends to integrate in the updated guidance relevant elements of the case law on rainbow families in free movement. for instance, that the term ‘spouse’ is gender neutral and includes all spouses and marriages and registered partnerships without exception. as regards children of same—gender parents, exercising free movement rights, where one parent is an eu citizen, all member states have to recognise the parent—child relationship as established on the birth certificate drawn up by a member state for purposes related to eu law, regardless of the status of such a relationship in the other member states. so a member state must accept certificates attesting to a family relationship issued by the competent authorities of the other member states. for the purpose of the free movement directive and the exercise of the rights derived from eu law, this acceptance does not require, and cannot be made conditional to, formal recognition by the other member. as regards the specific situation in bulgaria, the commission is monitoring the implementation of the v.m.a. judgment, and is in contact with the bulgarian authorities, both regarding the individual national proceedings concerning the baby sara case, and more generally, the relevant bulgarian legislation and practice. when it comes to the issues of registration and receipt of a personal identification number, the commission is analysing the situation in bulgaria and will ensure any appropriate follow—up. in relation to your question on the issue of mandatory transcription, the court has made it clear that the member state of nationality of the child must issue an identity card or a passport, regardless of whether the birth certificate issued by another member state for the child has been transcribed into the national register of civil status. in general, national requirements cannot be relied upon to impede the exercise of the rights derived from eu law by same—gender couples and their children. additionally, it should be stressed that the commission has already made use of its available tools, from dialogue to infringement, where its attention has been drawn to national requirements creating difficulties for eu citizens in having their marriage certificates accepted in the context of the exercise of their free movement rights. finally, it must be clarified that under the existing eu acquis, member states are not required to recognise the parenthood of a child as established in another member state for purposes other than the rights derived from eu law in the context of free movement. on that aspect, as announced in the lgbtiq equality strategy, as well as in the 2021 eu strategy on the rights of the child, the commission will present in the coming weeks a proposal for a regulation harmonising the member states’ rules for the establishment of parenthood in cross—border situations, and for the recognition in a member state of the parenthood established in another member state. this will further improve the rights of rainbow families, without taking away the rights that the child already enjoys under union law, in particular on free movement, including the directive and the case law which i have referred to earlier.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr. chairman, i read the constitution of the republic of bulgaria, article 46, first paragraph: marriage is a voluntary union between a man and a woman. civil marriage is legal. a few lines down in the next paragraph: children born out of wedlock have the same rights as those born in wedlock. this, colleagues, proves everything you're discussing here, deceiving yourselves and trying to make political propaganda. yes, it may surprise you, but we bulgarians in bulgaria have accepted marriage as a union between a man and a woman through our constitution. if the child is born out of such a marriage, he has equal rights and there is no problem in issuing a document in the mother's name. a single social security number can be issued immediately in the mother's name. so there's no problem with this thing. but what you're doing here is propaganda, trying to change our society and our way of life. we don't agree with him either. we're not saying you should allow or forbid or accept any form of marriage in your countries. we don't tell you how to sustain your societies. we tell you that we will not allow you to change ours because unlike you, we believe that marriage is between a man and a woman with biological parents. and i think you should respect that, because that's democracy.
on behalf of the the left group. – mr president, my two children have two mothers. we belong together as a family, with love, of course, but also legally speaking. it took some years, some painful judicial and administrative procedures, but we are lucky to be recognised as a family with two legal parents, two mothers. this is not the case for baby sara. she’s turning three this december, and she’s stateless in europe in 2022. so why is she deprived of a nationality? because she has two mothers. and bulgaria, despite being convicted in the european court of justice, has not corrected this. and this is not an isolated case. rainbow families all over europe are having to deal with a patchwork of legislation and administrative procedures in order to get our families recognised, safe – safe for parents and safe for children. it is time for the eu to recognise all children’s rights, all families’ rights, and adopt laws that will make us safe. our families belong together not only in love, but also legally speaking.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 16 september 2020, in this house, commission president ursula von der leyen said 'if you are a parent in one european country, you are obviously a parent in another european country' and announced an initiative on the recognition of children of same-sex couples in the european union. two years have passed and that promise has not yet been kept. the court of justice must intervene to recognise the rights of rainbow families in europe. in italy we are in a similar situation: the salvini decree requires that documents and forms relating to minors contain words that exclude and discriminate against families with the same parents. this decree can delay or even prevent the issuing of a passport and therefore violates the right to freedom of movement enshrined in the treaties. mr president, i have recently received a letter from a woman who is a mother and her partner. "'mother' is the most beautiful word in the world, unless it's repeated twice". no more discrimination, let justice and love win.
mr president, commissioner, lgbti people living together and creating families raise a number of situations that our juridical system is not prepared for, from the right to free movement across different eu countries, taxation, social policies, the right to inheritance of your parents’ property and so on. and very often we forget about the juridical aspect of the debate. it’s not just about whether we like it or not, whether you approve it or not. we are talking about a real—life situation involving real people, and these situations are happening right now, not at some undefined moment in the future. the conservatives like to present the debate as a normal status quo versus the unknown new future. but the truth is that this status quo, as we have, it’s not stable, it’s not perfect; there are so many gaps in the current juridical system. people getting married in one country, they may be moving to another or having a child together, and they’re separating. these are trivial things happening to millions of people in the eu every day. yet when we talk about lgbti people in this situation, we really realise how incomplete and discriminatory our current juridical system is. it’s not about granting privileges, it’s about safeguarding children’s rights: the right to live in a loving family, to travel and the ability to see your relatives. so please, stop discrimination.
mr president, i have supported this report by our colleagues. i think we need to look at the eu's own resources and reform our budget. it is a responsibility for the future of the union, for the future of our children, and we certainly cannot rely on the member states alone. i therefore supported the report. we have big commitments, big challenges from the past, from the coronavirus, to pay down debt. we have new spending in the social and climate fund, spending that we will direct to ukraine, to its defense and to its reconstruction, i firmly believe. and all these new challenges must be kept in mind and budgetary chapters must be prepared. europe must find its own sources of funding and i think this report is going in the right direction, which is why i really supported it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do we want war in europe? because with this resolution we are only fuelling the conflict and bringing europe closer to a major catastrophe. declaring russia a state sponsor of terrorism reduces the possibility of finding a peaceful solution to the conflict, because you don't negotiate with a terrorist. by voting in favour of this shameful document, we are allowing everything to be decided on the battlefield. do you understand what this means? a war with a major nuclear force cannot be won. we condemn ukraine to a long war, we condemn europe to exhaustion and we are paving the way for a global nuclear catastrophe. we need a european strategy to stop the war. europe must engage in peace negotiations, insist on a reasonable and acceptable compromise. instead, with this resolution we are taking a further step towards dragging europe into this war. (the president withdrew the floor)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about the path to a digital decade, and i would like to highlight three points following on from what mrs carvalho said. first of all, i believe it is very important that the european union has a values-based digital policy. and that is why this declaration on digital rights and principles, which you, mr breton, and the commission have presented, is of fundamental importance. the digital policy in europe must be based on the same values as the traditional economic and social policy we pursue. there can be no different digital policy. that is why i think that we have achieved a lot in the last few months: the digital markets act, the digital services act, the data act, and we are still waiting for the specification of the data act with regard to automobiles. but we need to integrate all these steps into the respective disciplines, and we don't need a separate digital supervision authority, as currently envisaged in the artificial intelligence act. digital policy must take place wherever there is policy today, and there must always be a balance between analogue and digital services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the spectrum policy is not too restrictive, and that the spectrum policy is not too restrictive. i would like to encourage you to do so, and parliament is on your side.
madam president, commissioner, let us be clear about this. at a time when we are strongly committed to a digital identity for all european citizens as the basis for a more inclusive and democratic digital television, there is another digital identity that counts: the digital identity of our partnership, the european union. the commission will continue to support the development of the digital single market, based on the common values we share for the 2030 path, such as the promotion of a people-centred, inclusive, secure and transparent digital society and the increasingly universal access of all european citizens to high-quality networks through technology, economic resources and skills development, enabling them to benefit from available services and, in particular, public services in digital format. it is the affirmation of this differentiated digital identity that can enable us not only to achieve our goals as partners for peace, freedom and democracy, but also to be relevant and competitive on a global scale. we must therefore combine all technologies, including the new generations of wi-fi, in the spirit of the wifi4eu initiative, of which i was rapporteur, and also open up a broad front of financing for the modernisation of networks, including the platforms that depend on them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the digital transformation of our society and our economy is one of the great challenges facing the european union. the commission has done well in setting specific targets for 2030 which will enable us to play a global role. as with the green deal, in fact, only if we have measurable and tangible targets will we be able to monitor our progress in this area. i would like to stress two elements of this strategy which i consider particularly significant. the first is the need to invest in ensuring that digital skills are widely spread and that there are adequate numbers of highly qualified digital professionals, especially among young people, to be competitive also in the labour market. the second element is the need to invest in the digitalisation of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to make the most of the opportunities that technology offers them. this will certainly also include the ability to ensure secure and resilient digital connectivity and infrastructure that reaches everyone.
respected chair, ladies and gentlemen, have you been tested? have you ever tried to see how many minutes you can stand to listen to a speaker at a business meeting or even a private meeting without reaching for your smartphone, and you would see something very important that just arrived. so we all lose our focus. we're all looking for an attraction. we've all become addicted in some way. and that's why when we talk about digitalization, especially about educating young people, we need to think about human frailties so that technology can really be at the service of humanity. we also need to know exactly how much this digitization will reduce administration, how much our citizens and businesses will actually pay less to the administration, and how much these processes will be simpler, faster and easier. so that it doesn't happen like in croatia where we had more digital transformation, but for most public services you are always asked for just one more paper.
madam president, i would say that covid has really demonstrated the value of digitalisation and technologies, how important they are to our societies. we’ve seen the benefits of bringing people together, delivering services, allowing business to continue, and indeed delivering particularly our education services. but we can’t stop there. we need to do more. and i very much welcome the programme, the ‘path to the digital decade’, and also the digital scoreboard, because i think it’s good to shine a light on individual countries and set targets and how we can improve our societies, our economies. by 2030, we want at least 80% of adults to have basic digital skills, and we must leave nobody behind. that means age, education and social background should not be a deterrent. we need to ensure that all households have gigabyte connectivity and all population areas should be covered by 5g. that’s really important. we also need to ensure that our government and our state services are delivered digitally so that we don’t leave anybody behind in this area, particularly those who are living in rural isolated areas. so the targets are there and it’s a challenge. but absolutely, as i started, covid has demonstrated just how important this is for all our societies.
madam president, dear commissioner breton, dear rapporteur, colleagues, strengthening the strategic digital capacity and deployment of advanced technologies will support our businesses, benefit our citizens and definitely ensure europe’s digital autonomy. proper implementation of europe’s digital decade policy programme will provide citizens with better jobs, better healthcare and better public services. digital progress is crucial if we want to achieve our climate neutral, fair and green social goals. however, we still have to guarantee four important things. first, better digital infrastructure and connectivity across europe. second, enhance partnership between member states. third, better digital skills. and fourth, effective public services across all the member states. all these objectives are crucial if we want to achieve our goals for 2030 digital targets. europe has the capacity to be a global digital leader where technological advancement, fair and green economic growth, social inclusion and business competitiveness are all equally respected.
madam president, it is clear to all of us in this debate that the state of integration of disabled people in the various european countries is very different. like their participation in the labour market, their unemployment rate, the income they receive, even their opportunity to grow in society, and if you want even their representation in national parliaments or here in the european parliament. but it's too simplistic, i would say -- wrong, to explain these differences by the different financial status of our countries. the big problem is how the funds are spent, both european and national, allocated to the integration of disabled people, and the most important part of this report, the most important emphasis we have to put, is precisely the complete ban on the ability of national governments to spend money directed towards the integration of disabled people, for their actual further isolation.
madam president, commissioner, europe certainly needs this vision. look at these pictures from bulgaria. the result of long-term investment is visible, as is the lack of it. i'm proud to say that the best examples are rural communities with mayors from the civil rights movement. rural areas continue to face many problems and challenges. they need to become attractive to young people, they need to be successful in the green and digital transition. there is also a need for adequate european funding for investments in infrastructure, broadband internet, quality administrative, educational and social and health services in the future. agriculture is undoubtedly a major source of rural vitality. but it is a great pity that farmers in some countries are getting lower payments, including in bulgaria. therefore, while welcoming the vision for rural development by 2040, i hope that inequalities will be eliminated.
madam president! i congratulate the rapporteur on a good report and a very well-executed one. i also congratulate the european commission and president timmermans, because this project, the repowereu plan, was the best possible response to the deep crisis that exists. let's remember, one of the main causes of our crisis was too little renewable energy, not too much. we also became dependent on fossil fuels from the east instead of spending more and more money on renewable energy. but for me, there are four things that are most important today. first, the recognition of projects for the production of electricity from renewable sources as being in the overriding public interest. it's about our health, it's about living and avoiding premature death, it's about our sense of security, and it's also about keeping our energy bills as low as possible. we make tough decisions on every road, because some citizens may lose out, but the public interest wins out. we also need to speed up the installation of pumps, the heating of buildings, biogas plants and energy storage. batteries and green hydrogen are our future.
madam president, the repowereu plan was a much-needed measure to ensure stability and predictability for european citizens and businesses. in the negotiations on the energy performance of buildings directive, we immediately created an article to allow a faster permitting process for domestic photovoltaic installations. european citizens have only one question for us at the moment: how can we reduce their energy bills? this can only happen if we build a balanced energy system that relies on both renewable sources and base capacity, which includes nuclear power. we must not go to any extreme but follow the best technical solutions in order to be able to reduce the costs and meet the demands and needs of european citizens and european industry.
madam president, repower is turning, i would say at last, our climate policy in the right direction, facilitating the natural market incentives of our citizens and businesses, and providing administrative stability for the family and corporate investments. but more needs to be done: first, establish and regulate new financial models and schemes allowing for vulnerable households and businesses to reach the private financial market; and second, include new renewable energy sources, such as the oxidation of hydrogen sulfide in the black sea waters, benefiting not only our present members, bulgaria and romania, but also our crucial partners in ukraine and georgia.
madam president, mr prime minister, some of our colleagues are not with us this morning because they are sleeping in prison. officials and, above all, several meps are suspected of corruption and of having received money from qatar to influence eu policy. all of them are from the moral left. all of them are actors or relays of these ngos which claim to dictate what is good and just to the people and to the legitimately elected governments. as a member of the european parliament for eight years, i have been taught their lessons, session after session, report after report. i have seen them dress up in all the virtues, posing as great defenders of human rights, and we learn, therefore, that those who claimed to chase homophobes in all corners of europe received bags of bills from the most homophobic state in the world. yes, this hypocrisy, this duplicity might make us smile, but this corruption case makes us ask: how many interventions were teleguided by qatari money? how many of the texts voted on here, in this house, not later than last month, by all the elected representatives of the socialist group, served the interests of this islamic country? when a european campaign promotes the veil, is it an initiative from brussels or doha? let us stop being naive and weak in the face of the islamic offensive in europe. let us affirm our values of civilization in the face of this high treason.
madam president, prime minister, let me say that i am totally with you, and welcome back on the right track. you said we must be decisive: unity and more – i understood – power and european methodology, and i am totally with you. renewable energy is own resources using waste, biomass, sun, wind, new jobs, cheaper energy and energy independence. rule of law: i come from poland. i am totally with you. the rule of law is not to be negotiated; it is to be enforced. and thank you for your words concerning ukraine. supporting ukraine means we are preserving our freedom and peace. and at the end, i am keeping my fingers crossed for your game against argentina tonight.
madam president, minister, in 1991 us secretary of state james baker solemnly declared that neither the united states not the european community would ever recognise an independent slovenia. less than a year later, both were among the first to recognise the new country. the lesson is simple: self-determination must be pursued regardless of the opposition of world powers, that always will protect the status quo. this also means that states only recognise the exercise of these rights when it suits them geopolitically, or when they think that rejecting it causes more trouble than accepting it. and that’s why it often becomes a mess and a source of instability. the eu should change in stance on self-determination and grant a safe and clear path for minorities to exercise it within the union and for viewing it with the rest of the world. slovenia should lead the effort to redefine this right. and we catalans will help you in this endeavour.
madam president, mr golob, we are honoured to be in this chamber today and to have the opportunity to lead this debate. only a year ago, slovenia was on a destructive path, and the then prime minister controlled the media and the judiciary with great arrogance. i am glad to see that slovenia has very quickly got rid of this model. i commend you for undertaking decisive reforms to ensure that the country's media will be free from political interference. what you have done to restore freedom of the media is an inspiration for all of europe. mr golob, thank you for bringing slovenia back to the heart of the european union and, above all, for proving that the countries of south-east europe can propose reforms that inspire the whole of the european union.
mr president, the sharp rise in energy and food prices has a particularly severe impact on vulnerable families with children, putting them at particular disadvantage and making it difficult for them to access basic services. the european union must help children who are disadvantaged and in need of support. and child support is an extremely useful tool for that. now more than ever, we need to invest in children and fight child poverty to ensure that the energy and food crises do not limit the potential of our greatest asset, our children and young people. bulgaria, at 33%, is among the four countries with the highest proportion of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion, at an eu average of 24.4%. financial hardship is a significant factor in terms of limited access to education, healthcare, healthy food, housing. that would certainly require a special budget for child support, and i would like to express my strong support for that.
mr president we welcome the accession of croatia to the schengen area and we remain fully in favour of romania and bulgaria joining schengen. the two countries have been waiting for schengen membership for 11 years, when the european commission first announced that they were ready to join. the european parliament has confirmed this in numerous resolutions. romania and bulgaria were disadvantaged by the lack of consensus, despite having fully met the conditions. they are strongly protecting their borders, the external borders of the union, and have done a lot to curb illegal migration. the schengen agreement, the absence of internal borders, is one of the main achievements of european integration. it is unacceptable that eu member states are unjustifiably hampered in other ways. it is a gross hypocrisy that while hungary is being falsely and unjustly accused of disrupting european unity, some old member states can disrupt the unity of europe without consequences on such a serious issue.
mr president, council, commission, first, i would like, naturally, to congratulate croatia on becoming a full member of schengen. but my joy with this accession is unfortunately in contradiction of my deep sadness and regret at the decision of the council, which is unfair and unacceptable, to reject the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. i have to say to my dear friend, jan-christoph oetjen, that i regret our position in government, despite it being a government from the epp. i also have to say the same of the rutte government, which is a liberal government and which had exactly the same attitude. this is not an ideological matter. there are independent assessments by the commission and by member states that really say that romania and bulgaria are totally prepared to enter the schengen zone. so this is an unfair, illegal and unconstitutional decision of the council and we cannot tolerate that. so, all my solidarity to the romanian and bulgarian people.
mr president, commissioner johansson, i want to thank you for the way you have presented romania's situation and for your objectivity and support throughout this period. i congratulate and thank the czech presidency for its impeccable conduct. unfortunately, this justice and home affairs council also brought a shameful moment: a member country of the european union, unfortunately led by a chancellor, by nehammer, who, in defiance of european rules, in defiance of the rules of conduct, of romania's compliance with european standards, decided to hold my country, twenty million romanians, hostage outside the schengen area. this must not be left without an answer and the answer must be a european one, a response from us, from those who believe in the values of the european union and to tell chancellor nehammer and that part of the austrian government that had this decision and this shameful attitude that romania does not deserve this, that it must be recognized as a country part of the european union, that we, romanians, are european citizens and we are proud to be romanians and this means that we must be recognized as such by everyone. romania must and deserves to be in the schengen area.
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, thank you for all the hard work you've put in. it was important not only for bulgaria and romania, but above all for the bulgarian and romanian citizens, that the commission was very clear in its assessment, namely that bulgaria and romania should be part of the schengen area. fellas, it's been 11 years. in those 11 years, a lot has changed in the european union and beyond. world politics today is different, but unfortunately the attitude of some countries towards bulgaria and romania has not changed. and i ask the question are the bulgarian and romanian citizens not european citizens or what do we call second-class citizens? they don't deserve to be part of schengen, they don't deserve to be part of the eurozone. we paid a high price and bulgarians and romanians and all those who live in these countries paid the price to be part of two alliances: nato and the european union. and we're going to go down that road because we believe we've made the right geopolitical orientation and we want to be full, full members of the european union. but that is why there can be no two europe, no double standards, but only one united europe. so let's join forces and work to make 2023 the year of bulgaria and romania in schengen.
mr president, romania's accession to the schengen area is a fundamental objective for my country, romania. people want this precisely because they are pro-european and because they want to be closer to europe. to achieve this goal, we have made great efforts, we have secured the romanian border in accordance with the highest international standards, we have fulfilled all the conditions, which has been confirmed by the european commission repeatedly. we reformed the judiciary so that the cooperation and verification mechanism is high. all assessments by the commission and member states' experts confirm that romania is ready to join the schengen area and that this would make the entire schengen area safer. we have managed to get the support of 26 of the 27 member states. however, the jha council did not take a favourable decision because of the opposition of one state, austria. we disapprove of austria's position, we consider it unjustified. it's an injustice to the people. we know the arguments are in our favor, we know the numbers are in our favor. i ask you to reject populism, i ask you to reject as a european parliament all unjustified arguments, to use objective arguments, official figures from the european institutions. romania is not the source of migration, it never was. our goal is to join the schengen area and we will work with everyone to achieve this goal as soon as possible.
mr president, last week austria and the netherlands blocked bulgaria's entry into schengen, hiding behind arguments that had nothing to do with european rules and standards. austria and the netherlands abused their right to sit in the council, putting the future of the european union in question. today i have just one question for the commission. the netherlands and austria have shown a flagrant abuse of law over the past week, trampling not only on schengen legislation but also on the treaty on fundamental principles. as guardian of the treaties, the european commission has an obligation to respond to the challenges of the 21st century. let me say that bulgaria does not need words of reassurance. we need concrete action. for this reason, commissioner, i ask you today: will you bring a complaint before the luxembourg court of justice for breach of the principle of loyal cooperation?
mr. chairman, peter butcharov, jordan iliyev, atanas gradev, these are the names of three bulgarian police officers killed in recent months. three europeans who, together with their colleagues, guarded the peace of bulgarians, austrians, dutch, citizens of the entire union. they do it efficiently, as all inspections have shown. it was recognised by the european parliament, it was recognised by the commission. the decision of austria and the netherlands to close the schengen gates to bulgaria and romania is not motivated by a concern for the rule of law. it is a blatant disregard for the will of the european parliament and the findings of the monitoring of the fulfilment of the criteria. he is an example of how national egoism and electoral bills are killing the spirit and the letter of the european construction. in an attempt to appease nationalists in their own countries, some european leaders are making a gift of europeophobia in bulgaria and romania by treating them as uninvited guests on the doorstep of schengen. dear colleagues, let's not kill the faith in europe that bulgarian policemen guard with their lives.
mr. chairman, i'm not surprised by austria's decision. i remember well that four years ago the austrian foreign minister was waltzing with vladimir putin and then became a member of the board of directors of the russian energy giant rosneft. keeping bulgaria and romania out of schengen serves the kremlin regime's policy of dividing the european union. i dare say that migrants in austria are a smaller problem than the capital of russian oligarchs in this country. and the dutch decision is unprincipled because it is dictated by narrow partisan interests. i expect austria and the netherlands to apologize to the bulgarian people. the schengen external border will be better guarded when bulgaria is a schengen member.
mr president, i shall make my speech as brief as possible and i shall not fall into the trap of making domestic policy, as some colleagues in this parliament have already tried to do. the problem is very simple. sure, it's an attack that fills a romanian like me with indignation and annoyance. the same is happening with our bulgarian colleagues. so it's happening to over 30 million citizens of the european union. but the problem is different: the outrage should be on the part of the 500 million european citizens, because this is in fact a flagrant attack on the very foundation, the very foundations of the european institutions. it is a flagrant attack on the solidarity, coherence and cohesion of european unity. the commission cannot stand by indifferently. parliament voted, it voted clearly and decisively in a way that a chancellor and a foreign minister would not.
mr president, what the netherlands and austria are saying with their veto positions is that they are ignoring the results of the two expert missions and that they do not accept the position of the european commission, that they do not agree with the positions of the european parliament, that they do not accept the opinion of the other 25 member states. the netherlands and austria have not given any real reasons for their veto, obviously they are rooted in domestic political processes and serve the governments in both countries, and this is not a european position, it is not useful for the whole european union. we must not allow such discriminatory treatment of the rights of a group of european citizens and it must not be allowed, tolerated, it must be condemned by institutions like ours and for that i thank my colleagues and all the institutions that have taken these correct positions. i have a question to minister balash and commissioner johansson: what are the concrete steps that the council and the commission will take to ensure that bulgaria and romania join together as soon as possible?
mr president, we are all very aware of the difficulties of dealing with a conflict which has lasted for several decades. we cannot stand by and watch a situation that creates despair and insecurity and costs the lives of many innocent people. under the present circumstances, restoring peace is not an easy task, but it is not impossible. we must start by putting peace back on the european agenda to find solutions to the conflict. the 2020 munich format was part of a constructive initiative by the european union towards a two-state solution. we have to keep this format alive. the european union has all the resources available for this. it should lead by example in promoting peace, by bringing together concrete contributions that international partners are ready to provide, because violence will not help resolve the conflict.
mr president, the qatar scandal, which we have been discussing all these days, but if we go back and look at brexit, and especially the russian aggression in ukraine, i hope that they have taught us a very simple and obvious lesson, and that is that any external intervention in a single european country affects the whole union, that any breach in security is a threat to every society, to every citizen of europe. that every political party funded by the kremlin, every propaganda media outlet, every internet troll factory, every lobbying energy project that develops on a single european territory, affects all of us. we saw that the north stream and the turkish stream made possible the war in ukraine, but who was affected? corrupt politicians in germany, bulgaria and italy? no, all ukrainian citizens, but economically and every citizen of the european union, every european business from portugal to finland. but i think it's time we talk about solutions to these very difficult problems. and i'm afraid the solutions are not as simple as we imagine in this debate, and they don't come down to building various bodies to investigate the ethics of individual mps. what we need is to extend and strengthen the mandate of the european public prosecutor's office and to build up european investigative bodies, not to mention european security services. nothing less than that.
madam chairman, the crisis is reducing advertising revenues, and the war is inflating propaganda budgets. the once traditional media today survive or profit from misinformation. regulation often degenerates into censorship, it's already suffocating even social networks. spyros sideris, the editor-in-chief of euractiv greece, has been the target of spyware development. at a conference in sofia, he shared how the person being monitored reacts: feels unnecessary guilt, fears for his loved ones, becomes cautious. there are many like spyros. the psychology of the person being tracked is paralyzing european journalism. the work of the pegasus commission is directly related to media freedom. so is the julian assange case. in bulgaria, the right wing has turned state funding into a tool for controlling the media. their ownership remains unclear, and free journalism has been marginalized. the solution is in a guaranteed percentage of the budget to fund public media as the gold standard for credible information, in the encrypted protection of the personal and professional rights of journalists who carry out an important public mission, the transparent ownership that sheds light on the hidden interests behind each media.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, 90 years ago, the soviet government’s attempts to break the will of the people of ukraine and other regions, to force them to accept the soviet regime and the abandonment of private property and agriculture turned into a bloody action: the holodomor. the soviet government, which called itself socialist, supposedly working for the good of the people, organised the holodomor by deliberate and systematic measures. it deprived the peasants of their stocks of grain and other foodstuffs, and imposed martial law, inhuman punishments and persecutions. punishments up to 10 years in a penal colony or in prison awaited the collection of a few ears of grain in the fields. this applied to everyone, including minors. the soviet authorities, seeing the enormous number of starving and dying people and entire families dying of starvation, acted cynically and used genocidal methods. already then, the soviets resorted to propaganda, hosting foreign journalists favourable to them, who were shown a reality created by deception. this old school of propaganda still exists in russia today. dear colleagues, i welcome the european parliament’s determination to recognise the holodomor as a genocide against the ukrainian people. the call for russia to recognise this crime is equally important. because only such steps would show that russian society coming to terms with history, and that it is determined not to repeat such unforgivable mistakes in the future. the social experiments of totalitarian systems based on collective violence, and radical and ideological actions must receive the necessary evaluation and response. as we commemorate 90 years of the holodomor, and express our condolences to the victims, let us do our utmost to help ukraine defeat the russian aggression, who once again threatens the existence of this brave nation and resilient country.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, it’s been 90 years since this horrible tragedy. it’s been decades. and russia is still the same russia. they committed crimes in poland. they committed genocide in poland. they committed genocide in ukraine 90 years ago and they are still committing crimes like genocide in ukraine now. nothing has changed. nothing. and 90 years ago, over 90 years ago, 100 years ago, we didn’t know what to name it, what to name this crime. as churchill said, it’s the ‘crime without a name’. but thanks to a polish lawyer, raphael lemkin, we do know that this is a genocide. genocide. this is very important. that’s why i think this chamber should commemorate mr lemkin, one of the greatest minds of the law in history. and we have to remember that genocide is taking place in ukraine now. for so many years, russia was the aggressor – not only in poland, not only in ukraine, not only in europe. what have we done to stop them? what have we done? businesses as usual for the last decades – gas, gold, diamonds. and these businesses are still taking place. we have to stop it now. we have to stop it now.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. the holodomor is one of the most terrible crimes of stalinism. it has killed millions of people, mainly in ukraine, but also in the north caucasus, the volga region, the south urals, western siberia and kazakhstan. this crime grew out of the political decision of the soviet leadership under stalin to impose the industrialization of the country and the collectivization of agriculture, even by force, on its own population - a cruel crime against humanity, in any case and without any doubt, which culminated in mass starvation and starvation by the millions. we pay tribute to the victims from all over the former soviet union, we extend our sympathy and respect to their families, and today we pay tribute in particular to the ukrainians who were victims of the holodomor. since 1948, a un convention has legally defined genocide as crimes committed with the intention of directly or indirectly destroying, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such. however, the fact that the soviet leadership under stalin deliberately committed a policy of genocide against its own population and in particular the ukrainians - that is, brought hunger on them for ethnic and racist reasons - is controversial among scientists, at least among historians. industrialization, forced collectivization, and decularization affected many nationalities of the soviet union. my criticism of this resolution, and of this debate, is that stalinist history is being confused with the cruel present of the russian war of aggression. we are not thus fulfilling the historical responsibility which derives from the complex history of europe in the 20th century, nor are we getting any closer to ending russia's criminal war against ukraine.
madam president, i am speaking on behalf of the european parliament to the members of the bulgarian parliament, to the president and the government of my country bulgaria, and i call on them to recognize the famine in ukraine as genocide and a crime against humanity committed by the criminal soviet communist party. i also call on them to stop participating in the kremlin's scenario of destabilizing bulgaria. it's long past time to declare persona non grata the russian ambassador to bulgaria, who is meddling in my country's internal affairs. it is long past time to remove all soviet and communist monuments that humiliate the dignity of the bulgarian people. today, russia is once again committing terror and genocide in ukraine. a tribute to the millions of victims of the famine! glory to ukraine!
