in writing. we can never be truly united, as long as cyprus remains divided. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. especially those who so far have been too timid and weak to effectively defend our family members in danger. i know that interests determine policy. but i was hoping that one day we would put what we say we stand for into practice. i mean, principles and values. i do not conceal the fact that we are more optimistic, especially we small states, with the french presidency and malta's presidency of this house. from a small country like mine. the paris position for a stronger and more united europe is one we all share and we will fight together to achieve it. to achieve a stronger europe that will not allow any erdogan to threaten it. a europe where principles and values prevail over any interests. a europe as envisioned by its founders.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, dear mrs trillet-lenoir, i would like to thank you for your contribution to the report. commissioner, when we talk about cancer, the numbers are frightening. every nine seconds a new case of cancer is diagnosed. enough of the excuses. public health should be put before private profit. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on health and safety at work, and will continue to support the implementation of the european union's policy on health and safety at work. i would like to welcome the adoption of our proposal to strengthen public hospitals in terms of prevention, early diagnosis and quality care. but i must say that we are full of words. there will be action. the report is a very good tool. i would like to ask the commission and the governments to show a real will to adopt it. we have so much to do. today, in particular, is world day against childhood cancer. six thousand, please, six thousand innocent souls in europe are lost every year to the deadly disease. we therefore call on you to adopt our proposal to increase funding, to provide quality crossborder care, to correct injustices in the treatment of cancer, to produce new medicines and, finally, to show sensitivity. and i am sure, mrs kyriacos, that you in particular can show sensitivity, because people's lives are not "play-laughs".
i would like to congratulate mrs véronique trillet-lenoir on her excellent work and the rapporteurs. i would also like to thank manfred weber very much, because it was his vision that led us here today. today is an important day for europe and the european parliament. today, on world childhood cancer day, after two years of hard work and tireless effort, we send a strong and hopeful message to those who have lost loved ones, to those who are struggling in some hospital with the disease, to those who have lost their strength and their faith: europe is here and we are all one in this fight, to make the lives of cancer patients better and more dignified. today, we took a first step towards our common goal with commissioner stella kyriakides as our companion. it was nothing, and it's not easy. in this report we have gone beyond different policy approaches and proposed the common good. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, mr borrell, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done on this report, which is more timely than ever. the geopolitical developments, the challenges and crises that are breaking out, even in our neighbourhood, underline the urgent need for the implementation of a common security policy. the european union cannot be a spectator to developments and merely an observer of what is happening. the european union cannot depend on anyone for its security and cannot simply react to developments without being able to play a substantive role. there are many examples, mr borrell: warsaw, armenia, absenteeism and erdogan's challenges; and now the ukraine. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. a europe capable of guarding its own borders and of standing in solidarity with member states when they need it. a europe that sets the pace and does not chase it.
madam president, commissioners, the cia predicted war today. there was no war. did anyone want him ? does anyone need him? it's a lot of money from arms sales, gas, trade deals. the united states speaks of the aggressiveness of others, when it spends 800 billion on military expenditure, has 800 bases around the world and thousands of troops in europe. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. but it doesn't tell us who's gonna pay the cost. the european peoples too? europe, the tail of nato, is watching with embarrassment developments in its own backyard. chancellor scholz and president macron have said it: without russia being safe, europe will not be safe either. let's hear the voices of reason. europe must rise to the occasion. this is what its history demands: to stand resolutely for peace against war. the european union is also calling for a political solution to the conflict in the balkans, which is not only a political solution but also a political solution. let's make room for peace.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you said that yourself earlier, mr. borrell. but i will not say that we all do; let us be honest with each other. if europe spoke with one voice, we would be much more effective on cyprus, the threats against greece, armenia and many other issues, which we talk about a lot but do little about. the ukrainian question is more a matter of european security, which seems to be very much at stake today. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. we welcome the initiative of the french presidency, which stresses that the issue of ukraine will be resolved only in the diplomatic field and we condemn any use of force. as a european citizen and as a cypriot, i must and do have international law as my compass, which must also prevail in the case of ukraine.
mr president, commissioner, investment projects which could have given a boost to the development of society have finally been converted into a passport production and issuing factory. a billion-dollar snack for circuits and middlemen. they drained the golden egg hen for many, many years and finally slaughtered her. the cost, of course, is the people again. we warned that arbitrariness and abuse would turn the programmes into hotbeds of corruption and collusion for circles that trade in european citizenship. unfortunately, as a cypriot, i know this all too well. my government may have stopped considering pending applications, but the damage done to cyprus and our people is great. we therefore call for transparency and the fight against corruption at all levels. we demand that tax havens be closed down. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the european union has a duty to help the people of cyprus and malta to find a way to return to their homeland. they're scattered all over europe, and there's something else: too many uncollected taxes from the return of the golden passports. the money belongs to the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not i'll start with german and continue with greek. first a quote: "you don't have to be a nuclear scientist to see the difference between fleeing the far-away muslim world and ukrainians fleeing the ukrainian-russian war. this is what mr orbán said. and i say, you don't have to be a nuclear scientist to understand that these words are words of racism. herr präsident, of course herr orbán and many like him can be proud to be racist. unfortunately, we are seeing the rise of far-right groups throughout the european union and we must deal with them decisively. the founders of the european union knew very well that racism and nationalism mean war. they knew very well that europe must conquer nationalism to have lasting peace. after all these years, unfortunately, we cannot say that we have achieved permanent peace. the report we are discussing today on combating racism is timely and i would like to thank the rapporteur warmly for this report.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. anyone who doesn't see that is just hiding their head in the sand and going blind. there is no greater racism than attacking someone's country, ukraine, because you simply disagree with them or want to gain something. that to me is the biggest racism. what we've experienced and are experiencing with covid has triggered a huge wave of xenophobia. culture, education, sport, the media are all important weapons in our arsenal to counter this phenomenon. we want, or rather demand, a global approach of zero tolerance towards racism in all its forms. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against the dangers of exposure to chemical substances. we call on all to take effective measures to prevent the media from spreading false narratives, negative images of particular ethnic or racial groups that breed racism. racism is a learned hydra, it has many heads and we must cut them off one by one. this requires cooperation and methodology.
mr president, commissioner, minister, we have done our duty and europe has unitedly responded to russia's invasion with unprecedented sanctions. when international law and human rights are violated, this must be our response. clear and without second chances. i know as a cypriot what war, refugees, uprooting means. i know what it's like to leave your home with a suitcase in your hand. i know what it's like to lose someone you love. my own father is a war-wounded man, a war that turkey waged against cyprus and he was never convicted, never punished. we have managed - and we have done well - in 48 hours to impose strong sanctions on russia, something we have not done in almost 48 years of turkey forcibly occupying half of my homeland; turkey playing it unmolested on two boards in the ukrainian crisis. he's not involved in sanctions and he's not shutting down russian planes. if i remember correctly, turkey is still a member state of the european union. i would ask you to do the same in defending the rule of law in all cases, avoiding the application of the two-step policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's the only way to convince them of our intentions. refugees are refugees no matter where they come from, no matter how many years have passed.
madam president, commissioners, minister, today, with the pandemic crisis and the war in ukraine raging, low-income households are facing a very serious poverty problem. there is an urgent need to promote family-friendly policies, policies that safeguard the rights and well-being of our children. the european semester should also focus on people with disabilities. these individuals face a particularly high risk of poverty and social exclusion. the commission should assess the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in the member states. we should also address skills gaps and shortages across europe, improving them in line with the needs of future labour markets. the sustainable development and well-being of all european citizens must be at the heart of the european union's social strategy. there is a huge humanitarian crisis going on in europe right now. we must put the human being at the forefront of our policy.
mr president, mr borrell, i have judged you many times, but i thank you in particular for being here for many hours and listening patiently. we are talking about china tonight, a country which we rightly condemn for its behaviour. the question i have is: when will we talk about other countries not participating in the sanctions? for countries that are undermining european sanctions, such as turkey? china is an economic partner of europe. turkey, i remind you, is a country which is about to join the european union and not only does not participate, but it is undermining the sanctions, and i have many examples to give you. it is even playing the role of mediator in this crisis, mr borrell, to come tomorrow to ask for its gifts from you, from the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur and friend domènec ruiz devesa on his excellent work and i would like to thank my colleagues for the excellent cooperation we have had in writing this report, a report which reflects all our concerns and at the same time gives answers to the challenges we face as a union in the field of education for citizens and education for education. the pandemic has left its mark on a new generation, which is trying, cowardly, to get back on its feet. somewhere in here is our role. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. the report calls for more investment in education, cooperation between member states and a strong integration of the european dimension in education. no child should be deprived of access to education and no child should be deprived of access to civic education. robert schuman, one of the architects of the european union, said that europe needed a soul, a vision and political will. that is why we want to strengthen citizen education. we want young people with critical thinking, vision and political will, we want young people ready to tackle the digital transition, the green transition and all the challenges that europe faces. we want our young people to be ready and active european citizens.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the extreme right in europe wants to dissolve the european union and go back to separate nation states. the putin regime works also for the failure of the eu. the extreme right wants to replace pluralist democracy with so—called illiberal democracy. together with president putin, they undermine the rule of law. they prefer sparta to athenian democracy. both the putin regime and the extreme right in europe are implementing the politics of ressentiment. the populist nationalists are mobilising the anger of the masses, and the putin regime is acting against western civilization out of envy and hatred. allow me to emphasise that not only president putin wants to see the eu dissolve, but also some forces elsewhere, like in washington. it was one of the advisors of president trump who wanted to coordinate the right—wing populists in europe. to fight against all this, however, we should review our economic policies and create a socially just european union. we need to minimise the inequalities which are a source of anger and ressentiment. dear president, like elsewhere, in my country cyprus also, the separatists are looking up to russia. they hope that the russian separatist movement in ukraine will help show that my country, cyprus, remains divided forever. we have to challenge separatist movements, and the best way to fight against separatism is to create functional, multicultural democracies. this is our challenge.
mr president, mr commissioner, even if i turn off my mobile phone, pegasus can see me, hear me and know where i am. pegasus and similar software are killing democracy, undermining its basic pillars, such as freedom of expression, freedom of privacy, freedom of the press, the right to unionize. the tragedy is you know what it is? that these freedoms are not limited to authoritarian regimes; even so-called or real democracies go after political opponents, trade unionists, activists, journalists. obviously, we're facing a new evil digital war. such software should be banned or, at best, regulated under strict operating conditions. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. but you have an obligation to protect us from modern cybersecurity. should anyone be worried or not?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, once again we are talking about human rights violations in turkey. we are talking once again about the flagrant violation of human rights and the violation of the rule of law by the erdoğan regime. the kavala case is yet another proof of who we're dealing with. a fascist regime with a leader who doesn't care about anything or anyone. a few days ago, a fellow turkish cypriot journalist, sener levent, was sentenced by a court in ankara to one year in prison for having insulted erdogan. this is turkey knocking on the door of the european union. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the situation in the country. this is turkey playing the peacemaker in the ukrainian crisis, again expecting benefits and profits from the european union. how hypocritical to close our eyes. i am therefore looking you in the eye and telling you frankly: there is no mitigating factor, as long as we tolerate this behaviour. tolerance is complicity. and i refuse to be an accomplice. you ?
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, osman kavala is sentenced to life in prison because the president of turkey wants it so. turkish—cypriot journalist şener levent, although cypriot, is sentenced to prison in turkey because president erdoğan wants it so. the great poet, nazım hikmet, could not describe it better. hence, i paraphrase his poem microcosmos, and dedicate it to kavala. our world is small among stars, but so very small. and asia is one fifth of the world. and turkey is a country in asia and europe. istanbul is a city in turkey. osman kavala a man in istanbul. and i am bringing you the news, in turkey, in the city of istanbul, they stopped on his way a man who was walking and they chained him. and i don’t bother anymore to lift my head towards the bright skies. if the stars are far, if the earth is small, i don’t care at all. i don’t mind. i want you to know that i find it more astonishing, more powerful, more mysterious and gigantic, this man stopped on his way and chained.
madam president, commissioner, i have seen colleagues here today, talking and giving lessons in democracy, not expecting to hear an answer. once they've said their poem, they leave without having to say anything back. this is democracy as they see it. the rule of law is the basis and shield of the european union, whether one likes it or not. any action which calls into question the rule of law calls into question the institutional basis of the european union. the commission's annual rule of law report should be a useful tool in highlighting democratic deficits. the protection of free and independent journalism and the fight against malicious slapps are also an integral part of the rule of law system. free journalism means democracy. without free journalists, no one in europe can feel free. the european union means protecting vulnerable groups, it means solidarity, it means respect, but it also means obligations and adherence to principles and values. without principles and values, we cannot be a family with a future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, i would like to thank mr sánchez amor for his effort to bring us a balanced report on the progress of the union's relations with turkey. i do not know, of course, whether there has ever been a light in the tunnel of euro-turkish relations. some europeans, of course, are playing it up to serve the so-called "common interest" and put turkey, in the midst of the russian invasion of ukraine, on the right side of history. these are shameful things. is that how we read history? for a turkey which has done for 48 years in cyprus what russia is doing today in ukraine, which continues to occupy european territory illegally, which acts in a revisionist manner to the detriment of greece, which invades neighbouring countries, which behaves like a pirate in the eastern mediterranean, which invades the cypriot eez, which colonizes famagusta, which deletes un and european parliament resolutions? you want more ? it does not respect the decisions of the council of europe, it imprisons kavala and demirtaş and thousands of other turkish citizens, it violates the rule of law and fundamental freedoms in the country, it alienates the will of our fellow turkish cypriots, it exploits the issue of migration and it threatens europe. now she's threatening nato, and some people are putting her on the right side of history. they keep giving her guns and piles of money and giving her counterfeit money. how will you upgrade its customs union when it does not comply with the existing one and does not apply the additional protocol? why don't you just tell us the truth? the truth is this: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. it is a pity, a real pity for the union.
mr president, commissioner, i do not know how hypocritical it is to talk about a report in which the words 'turkey' and 'progress' are used in the same sentence. i do not know how much it is worthwhile at this stage to dismiss all the arguments which prove that erdoğan's turkey has nothing to do with the european construction. so even if some people have their ears closed, we must stand here before you and remind you of some bitter realities. we owe it to the millions of victims of turkish expansionism, to the greeks, the pontic, the armenians and the kurds. i owe it to the dead and the refugees of my home country of cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is a great example of a great europe, a great europe, a great europe, a great europe, a great europe, a great europe. do you have any answer to the question 'interests or values'? if there were an answer and if we were serving values rather than interests we would not even be discussing a progress report for turkey today. (applause from the centre and the right)
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, madam commissioner, if there is a single european programme that is immediately recognisable by the youth, it is no doubt that of erasmus. since its formation back in 1987, when only 3 244 students participated in the programme, erasmus has been growing and growing, growing not only in numbers but also in terms of visibility and created friendships. of course we want this important programme to be accessible to everyone. in 2014, the erasmus+ youth inclusion and diversity strategy was introduced to ensure this aim. with this report we underline that we should do everything possible to help people with less opportunities or from disadvantaged backgrounds to participate in the programme. we need to remove all possible barriers. the necessary steps towards further improving erasmus could be increasing funding and less bureaucracy, as well as recognising the role of staff in youth organisations. i would end my words in thanking laurence farreng for her excellent work and perfect cooperation and preparation of this important report.
in writing. although the principle of equality is enshrined in the treaties, racial inequality, instead of diminishing, is still widening today. the risk of poverty and social exclusion is much higher for women and is also linked to child poverty. the gender pay gap in europe has not improved much. it is not fully applied and enforced anywhere. employers have a huge responsibility for equal pay. we call on the commission and the member states to set up programmes to increase the participation of women in the labour market. a better work-life balance must be ensured. women should also be encouraged to participate more in education and especially in stem education, where the gap is currently large. special attention should also be paid to women belonging to groups at high risk of poverty and extreme poverty, such as single mothers, the elderly, women farmers and women with disabilities. women's rights are guaranteed. we have an obligation to secure them.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. – mr president, as rapporteur for the regi opinion on the eu action plan for the social economy, i would like to stress once again the key role of cohesion policy funds in financing social economy projects, both for urban and for rural development, and especially for regions that suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps, such as islands, outermost, cross-border and mountain regions. at the same time, the eu action plan for the social economy can greatly contribute to solving urban challenges such as discrimination, poverty, inequality and social exclusion. most importantly, though, the eu plan for the social economy should be accompanied by impact assessment tools. commissioner, the commission should put mechanisms for monitoring and supporting social economic policies in place. the member states must set targets or objectives organising at the same time consultation processes with relevant social economy actors, local and regional authorities. we should all call for participatory approaches in support programmes and funding opportunities for the eu action plan for the social economy.
mr president, commissioner, under the pretext of fighting terrorism and defending national security, citizens throughout europe are being monitored through pegasus, predator and other similar software and in this way, obviously, democracy itself and the rule of law are being undermined. israeli and european companies are selling their illegal and expensive software without any hindrance. first it was hungary, poland and spain. now a huge scandal has broken out in greece, where political parties, politicians and journalists are being monitored on the orders of mr mitsotakis himself and his people. the european union is not a party to the cyprus problem, but it is a party to the cyprus problem. and all this, as it has been said, because there is also a dark european institutional framework that allows it; a framework that only formally protects personal data and privacy. the european union is throwing the ball to the states, but they are throwing it out of the field, too, in the relentless questions of the pega committee. we are therefore faced with a 'blackmail' campaign to cover up the wrongdoing and little hope that we will ever be able to put an end to this fairy tale about real democracy and human rights in the european union.
in writing. to work and have a salary that does not allow you to live a decent life is a blatant injustice. in particular, the recent price increases in europe have highlighted the need to ensure fair minimum wages in the european union. with the new legislation, we expect to ensure that minimum wages in all eu countries guarantee a decent standard of living for workers. the member states must do what they have committed themselves to: guarantee a social safety net for all workers by providing them with a genuinely adequate wage that takes account of the cost of living. a wage that will provide incentives to seek work and prevent workers from becoming poor. we must protect young people, our children, who are entering the labour market and are faced with the humiliating wages offered by some employers. the new rules on adequate minimum wages, if implemented exactly as agreed, will be a milestone for social europe, the europe of solidarity and social protection.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. for many months now we have been experiencing the impact of a war that has broken out in our own backyard with tragic consequences in all areas. the upward price increase is exacerbating the problem and unfortunately makes the goal of ending extreme poverty by 2030 a utopia. the number of unhappy people is constantly increasing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers, small businesses and consumers in general, and to include the protection of the environment. a strategy that will focus on specific vulnerable groups of our fellow human beings: children, women, single mothers, young people, the elderly, the unemployed, the homeless and the disabled. today, our fellow human beings are fighting for a decent living. we are called to lighten the burden of households and businesses. we call on the member states to consider immediately the possibility of exempting basic foodstuffs from vat while the crisis continues and the immediate application of the minimum wage. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe.
in writing. five years after the murder of investigative journalist daphne caruana galizia, we are still waiting for answers from the justice system. only one of the killers has so far been convicted of her murder. corruption must be stamped out and the guilty, however high they may be, must resign immediately and pay. we stand with those who fight against corruption and for the truth to shine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the whole of europe is shaken by the workers' demonstrations. accuracy, energy and a nightmare inflation that wipes out working income. of course, you give out of the budget some crumbs for the poorest households. but the truth is that the lion's share is shared by the pharmaceutical and energy multinationals. we want a different budget, one which will actually protect the welfare of the citizens, protect wages and workers' rights and take account of the needs that are being created, the new needs in education, health, food and housing. because, to be honest, not everyone has the same problems. because some people are gaining from war, which you must finally stop. not to another militarization of the ukrainian. not to new austerity policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. dare once can you?
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, theodor adorno, already in 1967, pointed out that one of the causes of the rise of the extreme right is the failure of liberal democracies to fulfil their promises and satisfy the needs of the citizens. it is true that, with no liberal policies in recent years, the gap between the privileged and the vast majority of the population has increased. the far right exploits the dissatisfaction of the angry masses and mobilises ressentiment against the political class. what the extreme right provides are nationalism, anti—enlightenment, xenophobia and political authoritarianism. it talks about exclusive and pure national identity, it turns against immigration, especially against muslim immigrants, and presents the eu as a threat. for the far right, the multicultural eu is denationalising european people. we should be aware that the rise of the right goes hand in hand with the rise of nationalism. indeed, in the historical context, all 21st century nationalism means far right. unfortunately, when it comes to issues such as national identity and multiculturalism, the mainstream right is often using similar discourses to the extreme right and is normalising the narrative of far right thinking.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, another tragic aspect of the war in ukraine is the destruction of cultural monuments. at the same time, artists and people of culture are experiencing death, refuge and occupation. we therefore express our solidarity with every artist, every writer, every worker of culture who is facing the consequences of war. in the 1977 geneva convention, article 53 prohibits any hostile action directed against historical monuments, works of art and places of worship which constitute the cultural and intellectual heritage of peoples. we support the protection of cultural heritage. any destruction of such sites, from the great mosque in aleppo and the temple of bel in palmyra to cultural heritage sites in ukraine, is a very great loss. it's a loss of humanity itself. the european union must act immediately. it needs to give real help to the people of culture and not rely on the goodwill of various charitable organizations. we need more than words; we need action. the creation of a european emergency response and recovery mechanism specifically dedicated to cultural heritage is moving in the right direction. we call on europe and the commission to take on the preparation and promotion of this framework. the above, of course, will not make much sense as long as the war continues; the war must stop immediately. we demand that president putin end this aggressive war now. we also call on the international community to take the necessary diplomatic initiatives to put an end to this human tragedy.
mr president, commissioner, for the first time energy policy is being raised as an important issue in european affairs. a strong europe must have energy security and a common foreign policy. the crisis in ukraine has highlighted our energy dependence on russia. we must look to the interior of europe and my country, cyprus, can play a significant role through the important deposits found in the cypriot eez. the time has come to secure our home with our own resources, the time has come to protect our interests threatened by foreign powers that stand against european principles and values. turkey - let's not hide - is among those countries, and if we don't act fast, erdoğan will become the new putin. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i don't know if we should ask mr. erdoğan if we can do that too.
in writing. we welcome the directive on measures for a high common level of cybersecurity across the union and believe that it reflects the changing landscape of cybersecurity threats. we clearly see that there is still room for improvement as european police forces face challenges related to the sharp increase in cybercrime incidents. at the same time, new threats such as hybrid warfare and disinformation/fake news campaigns make the need for a stricter institutional framework imperative. we believe that this directive is a good step towards harmonising the internal market and improving cybersecurity in the eu.
madam president, we are talking about stability in the wider middle east, a region in which my home country, cyprus, is the outermost european frontier. i am therefore well aware of the importance of stability and security in our region, and of the importance of a more active european involvement in achieving this objective. let's not hide behind our finger. stability is not something to be taken for granted when you are dealing with neighbours who do not share the same principles and values as you. i was expecting you, mr borrell's representative, to mention a country which you did not mention in a curious way: turkey, which threatens war every day, carries out air strikes in syria and iraq, and is constantly causing tension in the region by drilling illegally in a european exclusive zone. with this data there can be neither security nor stability. once again i want to remind you of something that some people may not want to remember: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. this turkey has european territory. turkey, thanks to our two-step-two-meter policy, will continue to undermine peace in the wider region.
in writing. the alliance of the willing cannot provide a temporary solution to the european impasse. in my country, cyprus, at the moment 6.5% of the population are asylum seekers. we're not talking about political refugees. we are talking about illegal immigrants who are often invading uncontrolled areas that are free from occupation. the eu cannot simply listen and work out solutions. with a european population boiling over, a holistic approach is needed to tackle the problem.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the eu today is admittedly in a very difficult position. in just a decade it has experienced a worldwide economic crisis, a pandemic of a deadly virus and the consequences of an aggression, of a war. at the same time, the effects of the climate crisis are intensifying. the youth has fewer employment opportunities. for the first time since the second world war, the youth is experiencing a lower standard of living compared to their parents. it was in this context that we have decided to dedicate the year 2022 to youth and have set four main objectives: to renew the positive perspectives for young people and help them overcome the effects of pandemic on their lives; to support and empower young people to become active and engaged citizens; to better inform young generations about opportunities available to them from public policies at eu, national, regional and local levels; and to mainstream youth policy across all relevant union policy fields. however, in order to meet the eu’s expectations, it takes much more than designating a european year. we have to increase public spending on education so that every child can have a high quality education, provide employment opportunities for everyone, increase wages and ban unpaid traineeships. racism and other forms of discrimination are diseases that cut through our society to undermine our values. we should treat this immediately. we have to focus on combating discrimination, address the challenges faced by young people who are discriminated. the creation of a fully-fledged eu youth test that will not merely become a bureaucratic checklist, but rather tackle these issues in a holistic way, can help achieve our aims. finally, we have to extend the year until 9 may and, more importantly, to defend and promote the legacy of the european year of youth. as the lyrics of a greek song tells: ‘defend the child, because if a child is saved, there is hope’.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the planet is sending out a distress signal. the damage to the environment caused by the abuse of natural resources and the reckless use and action of multinationals is enormous. at the same time, energy poverty, energy scarcity, affects one in four of our fellow europeans. the european united left group is clear that new policies are needed to achieve sustainable development for the benefit of the people. green capitalism that rewards the main polluters with a lot of money as green monopolies cannot continue. it is imperative to promote an integrated strategy for the development of renewable energy sources. we welcome, commissioner, the report's attempt to promote general eu-wide licensing rules for renewable energy projects and installations, calling for speeding up procedures, public planning and priority for degraded areas. we are concerned, of course, about the risk of a reduction in the requirements for environmental impact and protection of natura 2000 sites. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not affected by the crisis.
mr president, commissioner, we are talking about interference and i am one of those people who does not mince words. i feel shame and anger at what has come to light in the last few days. the allegations of serving the interests of foreign powers which have nothing to do with european principles and values are deeply disturbing and offensive. the credibility of the institutions has been damaged to a great extent and this is clear. we must act quickly and effectively. it is our political and moral duty to deal once and for all with the trojan horses who are trying in every dirty way to invade and tarnish the european union. their aim is the same: to promote their interests by any means and at any cost. well, they won't pass. but the message must be one and it must be loud. it's for everyone. the european parliament is united against all forms of interference, bribery and corruption. the european union is not for sale, it is not for sale.
