rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – mr president, we stand at the height of what could have been one of the greatest european achievements. after intense work, we have managed to create a set of rules that gives us the interoperability, a more open digital market, better choices for users and less power for the tech giants. i’m also proud of the critical changes regarding transparency, as platforms are now obliged to provide explanations and clearer labels or changes in their terms and use, and their display. parliament, and i am happy to hear this as a member of pirate party, has learned from the protests against the copyright directive, ruling out new filtering and monitoring obligations on our content and personal communication. however, instead of banning upload filters, we only got vague promises. the text could also have further limited the collection of personal data in ads, which fuels the ugly economy of surveillance capitalism. but the main problem from my point of view are the cross—border removal orders, which could lead to the deletion of fully legal content in one country just based on a decision taken in another one. this is particularly dangerous in the current rule-of-law crisis, where some of the member states are backsliding towards authoritarianism. giving the tools to diminish freedom of expression is unacceptable, and it will definitely not help us to create a smoother digital single market. we need the digital services act, but not at all costs, and especially not at the cost of giving dictators better whips. so i’m looking forward to further discussion on this issue between the member states and a parliament. thank you very much, and looking forward to further comments on this issue.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i have lived half my life in what is called real socialism. it was a real censorship, suppression and prosecution of people who expressed an opinion that was different from the approved one. officially, the system called itself a socialist democracy. there's a joke that goes around that there's about as much difference between a democracy and a socialist democracy as there is between a sweatshirt and a straitjacket. english jacket and straightjacket. one of the main slogans after the so-called velvet revolution in czechoslovakia was the slogan: "we want democracy without adjectives". and the newly elected speaker of this parliament reminded us of our former president václav havel. thirty years later, this parliament, which has been so critical of totalitarian regimes, is pushing for censorship. this afternoon one of the members used the term 'modern democracy' in this context. it's just a new version of socialist democracy with the suppression of the basic democratic right of free speech. they say it's about fighting for human rights against hate speech and disinformation. but i've rarely seen so much hate and misinformation as from human rights activists here, who replace rationality with ideology and fanatical slogans. modern technology allows for the free exchange of information and opinions on social media, but that seems to be a problem. the new totalitarianism wants a monopoly on its own misinformation, lying and promoting bizarre views. censorship is called content moderation, and there's virtually no appeal. a democrat has to tolerate dissent and unpleasant information. we have laws against fraud, humiliation and the spreading of alarmist stories, and we have courts to judge. censorship is unacceptable in a democracy, whether it's done by the state, digital service providers, or even non-profit organizations, as is being proposed. these are called "trusted informants". every totalitarian wants a monopoly on influencing people's consciousness, just like the totalitarian you're building. you are tolerant like the church inquisition that burned the rector of the university of prague, jan hus, for criticizing the immorality of the church, which today would be considered as spreading hatred towards a group of people. or giordan bruno for misrepresenting the movements of the planets. i hope you won't burn it yet, but there are already fines, prosecutions, firings, just like in socialist democracies. you're declaring a cordon sanitaire in the european parliament. your ... (the chairman interrupts the speaker)
mr president, coercion, violence and force are methods we reserve for the most severe situations. the chinese communist party (ccp) has chosen to deploy these methods against millions of its own citizens daily. hong kong is a stark reminder of how much prosperity, freedom and human dignity the chinese regime is able to destroy. if we want to protect our friends in hong kong, or the brave member state of lithuania that finds itself under attack by the ccp, we europeans must, more coherently and loudly, react to chinese aggression. a symbolic start would be the boycott of the beijing winter olympics by all politicians. this symbol must be followed by a strong and enforceable law – the anti-coercion instrument. i hope that this is exactly what we, the european parliament, will achieve in the upcoming months. debates leading to action: that is our way, right?
mr president, it is unfortunate that already, at the beginning of the new year, we are debating grave violations of human rights happening worldwide here, and kazakhstan is in the spotlight. the citizens of kazakhstan have spoken clearly before. they want to have a more democratic country, where inequalities in the rich fuel-producing country would fade away, and freedom of speech, the right to peaceful protest and freedom to choose political representation would be upheld. instead, people are given a cult of oligarchic personality, none of the promises fulfilled, and inequalities widened. the actual conditions of long-term tension led to the protest. it is disgraceful that instead of leading debate with protesters and fulfilling some of the promised reforms, people were labelled as terrorists, violently beaten and killed. the eu, as a proclaimed leader in human rights, must reflect on what has been happening. sadly, the eu has no voice in the region and has reacted with too little, too late. furthermore, how can the sanction mechanism work when people like orbán cannot recognise human rights violations and can block, thanks to the unanimity rule, the vote at the council? for change to occur, we must establish ourselves as the influential partner who can help with peaceful resolutions, and to have credibility, we must impose targeted sanctions on the high-level kazakh officials responsible or change our voting mechanism, which simply does not work.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the rapporteur announced at the start of the negotiations that he wanted an objective debate without extreme positions. is it possible for an active cattle farmer to write an objective report on animal welfare on farms, solely based on facts instead of his personal opinions? clearly not. this report is not objective. it is not science-based and not even about animal welfare. it is time that those who cried the loudest for scientific evidence start using scientific evidence themselves. i cannot emphasise enough how extremely disappointing it is that once again, animal welfare is hijacked by the ongoing debate on the future of farmers. a missed opportunity, but we can fix this by voting in favour of the alternative and objective reports written and adopted by the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi). dear commissioner, times are changing, but not everyone seems to be willing to embrace this change. i hope and expect from the commissioner that she will use her common sense and base her legislative proposals on scientific evidence and on the welfare and needs of every animal species. that is what we need to tackle the numerous cases of non-compliance, the enormous animal suffering and the systemic inhumane treatment of animals exposed by multiple investigations and by your own inspections. the sooner, the better.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the welfare of animals - whether farmed or kept as pets - is a matter for society. and that is why i think this report is important. we have to ask ourselves: where are we today? and what needs to be improved? animal welfare starts where animals are kept, on our farms, but it goes far beyond that. animals should be transported properly and slaughtered properly. so we have to look at the whole supply chain, especially if we are thinking of introducing new labels in europe as well. but animal welfare, and this has been said by previous speakers, often comes with costs, with investment in buildings, in equipment, and these costs cannot simply be left to the farmer. it is a little too easy when the trade demands more animal welfare, invents standards itself, pushes them on the farmers and thus advertises to the consumer, but then is not willing to price these conditions at the store price. and that is not the case when consumers want more animal welfare and then want meat for two euros and drinking milk for 50 cents. there 's one thing we have to be careful of . if we simply impose the costs on the farmers, the small ones will suffer before the big ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we need to have workable, feasible, affordable standards that can be met by small farms, especially in disadvantaged areas. otherwise, the shot could go backwards. if new rules continue to encourage the concentration of farms, it will harm our agriculture, our environment and the animals will not benefit.
madam president, commissioner, we are talking about a report, and i say this because i have heard some of your honourable members... it is a report on the welfare of farm animals. it has nothing to do with transport or slaughter; those are other reports we have already discussed. i think it is a good report, mr decerle, and i would like to congratulate you on your work, as well as my colleague carmen avram and all the rapporteurs who have worked on it. the report concludes on a number of points which i would like to stress: the existing legislation must be updated, of course, as the commission has already said on several occasions. we have had the rules for 15 years and they must be adapted to the new demands of society, to scientific and technological progress and to good farming practice. i therefore think that this is a good report and we hope that the commission will take it into account. i repeat that the amendments must be based on sound scientific evidence, which must of course be accompanied by an impact study covering the changes introduced into the legislation. finally, i would point out that it is probably necessary to set time limits for adaptation and to take account of the competitiveness of the whole food chain, but especially of farmers.
the protection of the welfare of animals has a long tradition in the european union and is heavily regulated. it brings a significant ethical dimension to our food production that we don't find anywhere else in the world on such a scale. i'm sorry that we often pretend that we're not, that we're in the middle ages. we are being attacked unjustly by certain activists, and they are trying to explain to us that these colleagues here in this house are supporting these ideas in a very primitive way. i would urge them to focus their efforts on countries and producers that do not comply with these rules. not to cheaply criticize the european institutions. of course, we must go further in terms of living conditions, but we must do so on the basis of scientific facts, not manipulated emotions, and we must distinguish between the needs of animals according to species for the sake of the animals themselves. in short, the rabbit and the fish need different solutions. otherwise, we could do more harm than good. and we must also harmonize, commissioner. where a number of member states have already made progress, such as in the ban on cage-keeping, harmonisation is needed. and that's the most important thing. we import products from countries where animals are worse off, where deforestation has taken place, and this is where we have to be uncompromising. there should be absolute rules for tracking and for tracing from these third countries... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, we have here a report, toughly negotiated for the greens by my colleague, michèle rivasi, that puts prevention at the core of this report and echoes the commission’s beating cancer plan. this part not only addresses tobacco, e-cigarettes, alcohol and food policies, but also environmental aspects, such as air quality and exposure to cancerogenic substances. we are also pleased that the report acknowledges unaffordability throughout europe as one of the key obstacles for patient access. on the other hand, we regret that the report fails to address the elephant in the room: the system of patents which creates monopoly markets for companies and enables them to keep prices at a very high level. but please let’s not undermine the efforts of the report. we have the inclusion of ‘no safe level of alcohol consumption’ in the report. however, i see that some colleagues still do not recognise scientific studies or even reformulate studies to align them with industry demands. the who clearly states that there is no safe level of alcohol consumption, therefore, now stating that only harmful consumption is cancerogenic is misleading. after how many glasses of wine can we talk about harmful consumption? one, two, three? about 1 in every 20 deaths worldwide is the result of an alcohol-related disease. let’s stick to the science and keep the report as it is. we also clearly need better information about the risk factors for many different cancers and need to stick to health warning levels. i also want to remind everyone that we are calling for the prohibition of alcohol advertising at sports events when those events are mainly attended by minors, as well as the prohibition of alcohol sponsorship of sports. now, concerning e-cigarettes: the current report calls on the commission to evaluate which flavours in e-cigarettes are particularly attractive to minors and non-smokers, and to propose to ban these. there are thousands of flavours in e-cigarettes that are trying to make them unduly attractive, and it is overdue that regulatory action has to be taken against them.
madam president, commissioner, dear véronique, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have managed to adopt a rather good report in the special committee. it's been a very long journey complicated by the pandemic. unfortunately, the pandemic will continue to complicate the implementation of both the beca plan and our report for the foreseeable future. and that's mainly from the point of view of funding. because every step described in the plan and the report is extremely expensive. unfortunately, public health budgets are very low and in a very bad state after the pandemic. but what the report, in my opinion, neglected to mention was the hundreds of thousands of missed cancer screenings during the pandemic. and that's the biggest challenge for us politicians: cancer prevention in the coming years. it's a time bomb that will inevitably explode in our faces one day. if we ignore this, we'll have patients in worse health and their treatment will be very expensive and unsuccessful. i welcome the emphasis placed on the prevention of the development and progression of cancer diseases in the european plan to fight cancer. i believe, however, that we as a parliament must be much more ambitious in the measures proposed. prevention is very important, but it is not enough. why would you do that? because we've been failing to reduce the rate of risky behavior in our population for a long time, and the committee report stubbornly holds to the solution of higher tobacco taxes. this is despite the fact that it is clear that smoking is a major social problem in a certain part of our society and that no amount of taxation will deter this group from smoking. it is necessary for member states to be able to minimise health risks effectively. a pan-european approach is needed. colleagues, i sincerely hope that this is not the end of the plan and the report. now we have to start filling everything in.
madam president, more than 3 million people in europe get cancer every year and 1 million people die, including 2 000 young people. these numbers show the severity of this disease and how crucial it is that we all stand together against cancer. prevention, early diagnosis and access to quality care can save lives. that is why we must build europe's best cancer centres, working together across europe, providing preventive screening to avoid unnecessary losses and, where possible, providing free vaccination, such as for cervical cancer. in addition to the common cancers, we're going to be focusing more on the rare cancers in the future. and how is that? for example, by developing transformative therapies that can cure these rare cancers. let me thank everyone who contributed to the report on the fight against cancer. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will try to be brief. i think we're about to do something pretty stupid, because we want to ruin this great proposal we have with this kind of small-minded nonsense. it's great that we're working on a common approach to cancer at the european level. it's a vicious disease, it affects everyone equally, and the research for a solution is very expensive and difficult to do on a national level. and it is this joint research that shows that european cooperation makes sense, because it simply advances knowledge not only for europe, but for humanity as a whole. unfortunately, here, just in the right mindset of prioritizing, coordinating and addressing these real problems, someone decided to start banning harmful things. i fully recognize that there is a correlation between cigarette smoking and cancer, that's a known fact and a risk that every smoker takes on the moment he or she smokes a cigarette. that is why tobacco products are taxed, and i am certainly in favour of informing people of the consequences of their actions and informing them that this can have very unpleasant consequences for them. i am in favour of the consequences being reflected in the price of the tobacco products concerned. but, unfortunately, in our passion to save people, we've gotten ourselves into a situation where we're doing something we shouldn't be doing, and that's forbidden. i just don't think this union should be focusing all its energy on this one little common man who's really doing nothing but wanting a cigarette. if he wants to do it at his own risk, please let him. i see no reason to forbid him. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would say that the report we are discussing is not bad at all by the standards of this parliament. thanks for it, but it's still just words. and what we need in this tense situation -- probably the worst security situation i can remember -- is we need to be able to act, we need to be able to spend 2 percent on defense, every country in europe, hardly anyone does. we must be able to send troops to protect the eastern part of nato. we need to be able to stand up for ukraine as a free and sovereign country and we also need to be able to agree that if russia crosses the red lines, we're going to disconnect it from this swift. we can't even agree on that. so we must not be in a situation where the bastards make fun of us, but they respect us, and that can only be proven by actions, not by talking about european architecture. thank you, man.
madam president, i want to focus on two issues in the report that i believe are of structural importance to our security. firstly, qualified majority voting (qmv) in the council. a flexible and credible operational system is necessary. the council should start with the low—hanging fruit on this, and introduce qmv in the adoption of statements on international human rights issues and human rights—related decisions. then we can continue towards qmv for the introduction of sanctions. our credibility as one acting block is at stake if we allow the unanimity vote system to paralyse us. secondly, the ever—growing threat of cyber surveillance. new spyware revelations are continuing to threaten our very political basis, and allow incumbent parties to spy on their opposition. the damage is being done to our national and european institutions from an out—of—control international trade in spyware, which has to stop.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here in this chamber on the date that many have speculated in the last week as the date of the russian invasion of ukraine. not only those who have experienced war but also those who would like to have that experience in their lives are choked by such an opportunity. if we look at the list of security threats over the last few years, we'd be looking in vain for incidents that weren't aggression by the russian federation. georgia, please. the ukraine. from espionage scandals to assassinations on european soil to disinformation campaigns, we find the kremlin's handwriting everywhere. whatever the current tensions develop, it is important to remember that russia has been at war with the european states for a long time, just using methods other than traditional. and he wins. he divides well, but he rules poorly. we need to come together and focus on both the short-term threats and the long-term implications of the kremlin's actions. otherwise, we lose without a fight.
madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to ask you: no more excuses. today, the european court of justice ruling finally gives a green light to the commission to use the conditionality mechanism and enforce the rule of law in europe. european funds should never be used to undermine the independence and impartiality of the judicial system or the prevention of conflicts of interest, or to suppress freedom of expression and media pluralism. these are the bases of our democratic union and should be not endangered. the hungarian and polish governments are now reminded that the rule of law applies to everyone and should be the main prerequisite to get the access to public money. orbán and morawiecki’s efforts to delay the democratic process have only made it worse. that’s why the commission should trigger the mechanism without any delay. oligarchs and subsidy fraudsters have no place in europe.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on the priorities of the european union for the 66th session of the united nations commission on the status of women (2022/2536 ((rsp)).
president of the council. madam president, madam commissioner, i thank you for this opportunity to exchange views with your assembly on the forthcoming session of the united nations commission on the status of women. one of the priorities of the french presidency of the council of the european union, as you know, is gender equality. we are committed to making the rights of women and girls a universal reality. france has previously committed to this, notably in the framework of the génération égalité forum, which took place in paris in june 2021. many of the legislative texts under discussion are broadly aimed at this objective. i will not go into it, but several texts that are currently being discussed in the council - i am thinking of the representation of women on the boards of companies, as well as the question of equal pay, which was the subject of a proposal by the european commission last year - are also priorities for this six-month presidency, in the discussion that has begun in the council and will continue with the european parliament. in the context of the un commission on the status of women, the european union must play its role, a key role in promoting a high level of ambition for the rights of women and girls, and vigorously oppose any attempt to undermine existing international commitments and standards. in january this year, the council adopted its position on the union's approach at the 66th session of the commission, which is being held in march. the european union's ambition is to remain at the forefront of gender equality and women's empowerment. the theme of this year's session is focused on the link between women's rights and the environment, and i think it is timely. gender inequality and climate change are two of our global and european challenges, two of our most important challenges for sustainable development. climate change - as we know, unfortunately - is expected to disproportionately impact those, and in particular those, who are already struggling, particularly women and girls who are in vulnerable situations. the council is aware that the pursuit of gender equality and environmental objectives are mutually reinforcing. slow progress in actions related to climate change, energy transition, environmental protection or natural disaster risk reduction is sometimes detrimental to the achievement of gender equality, and vice versa. in this spirit, the council has identified priorities in five key areas, which i will mention shortly. first, to accelerate the implementation of the international commitments we have already made, both on gender equality and the environment. in this regard, the union will need to emphasise the need to apply a human rights-based and gender-sensitive approach to all its policies and programmes, including when establishing our budgets. second, central, is to act against the effects of environmental degradation and climate change, and against their disproportionate impact, as i said, on women and girls, taking into account all forms of discrimination and paying special attention to gender-based violence. third pillar: protecting and recognising the role of civil society, including human rights defenders who work to combat inequalities and promote environmental justice. fourth, also address data challenges and strengthen data breakdown and gender benchmarking to support environmental policies. we sometimes lack information that differentiates between genders and allows us to better identify and respond to inequalities. finally, remove barriers to women's participation and decision-making and strengthen their participation in the business sector, the private sector and public and political decision-making processes. this is what the union should be defending at this 66th session of the commission on the status of women, from the council's point of view. this is in any case the spirit in which we are working and i shall be glad to listen to today's parliamentary debate and to the european commission.
member of the commission. – mr president, minister, dear honourable members, four months ago, world leaders and stakeholders gathered at the glasgow climate change conference, the cop26, to recommit and enhance their engagement to act firmly and rapidly on climate change. on the gender day of cop26, the eu and member states made the submission on the gender-differentiated impact of climate change and the role of women as agents of change. the implementation of the paris agreement, the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction and the un framework convention on climate change and its gender action plans, needs to take a gender transformative approach to be effective. this is why i welcome the theme of this year’s commission on the status of women – climate change and the need for environmental and disaster risk reduction policies – with gender equality at the centre of solutions. climate change, environmental degradation and biodiversity loss take a disproportionate toll on women, primarily because of the reduced access to resources. this is particularly the case for those from disadvantaged backgrounds and the poor, and is particularly acute among rural dwellers, indigenous peoples and migrants. effective solutions cannot be drawn without adequately taking into account the diverse voices of women and girls. addressing climate change is a priority for the european commission, and we stand firm on leaving no one behind. indeed, social justice is at the heart of the european green deal, and gender mainstreaming is a key tool to its implementation, as is highlighted in the eu gender equality strategy and the gender action plan iii. the eu climate adaptation strategy describes how climate change might worsen existing inequalities and focuses on ensuring that adaptation measures factor in the different adaptive capabilities of women and men, older people, people with disabilities, displaced and socially marginalised persons. for the european green deal, the commission integrated the gender perspective into the policies of the fit for 55 package. for instance, the proposal for a social climate finder fund recognises that women are particularly affected by carbon pricing, as they represent 85% of single parent families, and calls for mainstreaming gender and equal opportunities in the social climate plans. under the european climate law adopted in 2021, the commission will help disseminate science-based information about the social and gender equality aspects of climate change, including through the climate pact. the climate pact also seeks to achieve gender balance amongst climate ambassadors. currently, the pact has 265 women ambassadors, 331 men ambassadors, and five who did not state their gender. reliable data is crucial, and the 2023 edition of the gender equality index of the european institute for gender equality will focus on the gender issues in relation to the green deal. in order to effectively address gender equality in climate change, the leadership and participation of women and girls is key. for a successful and inclusive green transition, we need women to participate in equal numbers in education, training and reskilling programmes, including in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics. that will lead to these new green jobs. evidence shows that there are direct links between environmental degradation, climate change and disasters, on the one hand, and gender-based violence on the other. competition over increasingly scarce resources is a contributing factor to the exacerbation of violence and the threat to women’s livelihoods. the commission on the status of women is therefore an opportunity to put key challenges of our time on the table and negotiate with governments from across the world on commitments to promote women’s rights. it is also an opportunity to exchange best practices with our partners and to pave the way for a better, safer and more inclusive world.
for the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, before we begin, i would like to thank all of you who have worked on this report for your excellent work. we have managed to present a very good document and to express the european parliament's position on the issue of linking gender equality and the climate action that awaits us. climate change will affect all areas of our lives and may deepen inequalities even further. the adverse impacts of climate change, the increase in the risk of natural disasters and the consequent deterioration of the socio-economic situation may lead to serious violations of the fundamental rights of women and girls in some parts of the world. it's absolutely alarming that according to the united nations, women and children are 14 times more likely to die in a natural disaster than men. there are many reasons. these are women and girls in some parts of the world who do not learn to swim, who stay with their children and relatives longer than they can seek shelter, or who lack access to good food, sanitation, or health care. we still encounter stereotypes and prejudices in some areas that prevent women from acquiring the skills necessary to survive in crisis situations. in countries where women cannot leave home unaccompanied, they receive no warning from others and find it harder to escape devastating calamity. therefore, involving more women in crisis management and rescue operations will ensure that all disabilities are properly approached and that all perspectives are taken into account in planning. but to do that, we need gender-sensitive analysis and data collection so that we can better understand and be prepared for the specific impacts of climate change and pandemics on women and men. if we have only aggregate data, we risk missing a large part of our population. statistics also show that 35 percent of women worldwide have experienced physical or sexual violence at some point in their lives. and climate change and natural disasters will only make that number worse. women and girls who have been forced to leave their homes are particularly vulnerable to sexual violence. eu countries must therefore ratify the istanbul convention as soon as possible and make it subject to ratification in other parts of the world. i would be very happy if you would support this report. thank you, sir.
mr president, in many ways, putin’s war has changed everything, but it has also reinforced what we found in our over a year—long investigation into malicious interference. dictators exploit our untransparent financing and lobbyism laws to buy themselves into our political system. dictators buy our state—of—the—art intrusion software to spy on anyone who could expose their crimes and corruption anywhere in the world. dictators spread their propaganda through purely profit—driven social networks and corporations that we europeans fail to regulate. russia’s naked aggression has united us and created the necessary common threat to hopefully enforce many of the recommendations in the report to counter these vulnerabilities. for me, it is clear that only a common european approach that combines the strengths and resources of all member states can be successful, especially in the realm of cybersecurity, protection of critical infrastructures, regulation of online platforms and expert control of high—tech goods. our long—term strategy must be a whole-of-society response to educate and prepare our citizens for the digital age by dedicating more time and resources to those members of civil society who strengthen and protect our common freedoms. i admit that i am worried about our large potential for overreaction. nobody wants a european patriot act. mass censorship, mandated backdoors and eradication of secure communication cannot be our answer to increasing geopolitical hostility because they threaten the foundations of our free societies. with this report, i believe we start to walk in a good direction. we might stumble, we might miss a step, but, finally, we walk.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mrs kalniet for a very good report, which i had the opportunity to work on and which unfortunately has become very topical in recent days. all of our attention is on ukraine at this moment. we must not underestimate the impact of the hybrid warfare we are now experiencing. unfortunately, we have allowed online platforms for too long to spread deliberate disinformation under the guise of freedom of expression, which undermines not only trust in the state and public institutions, but also trust between europeans. we saw that in the covid-19 campaign, and we see it today in the fact that we are the ones who are responsible for the criminal attack on ukraine. that is why i am very pleased that the report highlights both the role of awareness and education on disinformation and the rigorous regulation of online platforms. the attempts to subvert our society are not only through disinformation, but also through the incitement of hatred against vulnerable groups, people with disabilities, ethnic, religious minorities and lgbtiqs. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the provisions on the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data in the context of the eu's new rules on data protection. there's no way for platforms to profit from polarizing the public, and that's why i support as much transparency as possible about the algorithms they use. it's a big challenge for you. but if we want to ensure an open, democratic, fair european future, we must overcome it together.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let me start with the numbers, so 2 million in 10 days, not 1 million a year. of these 2 million in 10 days, 1,200,000 went to poland, 191,000 to hungary, 140,000 to slovakia, 87,000 to romania and 105,000 to the czech republic, which is not even next door to ukraine. remember how you moralized us here five or six years ago, the countries of central and eastern europe, when we asked who was going to make a million a year? whether it's those who flee from war or those who follow the better, young men with stones. now these young people, ukrainians, are coming back from our labor market, tens of thousands, back to fight for freedom. and of those 2 million, 55% are young children, of that remaining adult population, 80% are women, and the rest are seniors. so we do what we can. we do it with love and respect. we're not being moral. of course, we welcome any help, logistical, financial or otherwise, but we're not asking for any quotas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk about refugees. so first of all, i would like to thank all those who are actively helping, all those who are transporting people, providing food, helping refugees with their orientation in a new environment, or making their apartments available to them as they can. and here i see a huge surge of civil society and solidarity between people. but i stand here as a man from a country that failed in the last refugee wave because at the time, the czech republic refused to help, feared people driven from their homes by war, and our society was suffocated by hatred. now the situation is different and the sacrifice of ordinary czechs is enormous and i believe we can do it, but we can't do it alone. i would like to ask you, and now i turn to my colleagues in parliament, the council and the commission. please consider the broadest possible support for those states that are trying to provide aid and shelter to those who are fleeing their homes in war. we're doing this for them first. thank you all so much and glory to ukraine.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, putin is a criminal and a blackmailer. and we need to limit our dependence on it. and the document that the commission has published today: it's fine, but to say in such a transparent german that we need someone for another three to five or seven years and then not, is a mistake, we just put him on the list. it's like saying to a girl, "i'll sleep with you four more times, and then i'm not interested in you anymore". otherwise, i appreciate that there's gas as a strategic commodity, that we should have reserves. but otherwise it's weak tea, nothing about the core, nothing about coal and the crown, everything that in the next 3 years we want to replace russian gas with biogas. so we're planting twice as many fields of corn at a time when there's going to be huge shortages of imported grain from ukraine and russia. well, congratulations, that must have been the timmermans-einstein idea.
mr president, last year we made a big mistake. we allowed russia to squeeze our gas market. most likely, the mistake was a consequence of naivety vis-à-vis putin’s russia, but also the belief of the member states that they have the right to choose their energy mix allows a lack of cooperation and almost no coordination. we paid a high price and european risk management failed because we didn’t even interpret the data well at the end of last year. today, we are facing a much larger problem. putin’s war in ukraine is killing thousands of innocent people, and we must do everything to stop it. at the same time, as a consequence, we are facing the problem we are talking about today as we are facing the energy price crisis. i am quite glad that the commission has presented its communication today. i guess it’s a good one, but we must get it from paper to reality. i am also sad that some people, including the top politicians from some member states, instead of speeding up the necessary measures, are scaring people. i guess this is not the right way. i believe we can, and we will, manage this crisis and, after all, the eu will get stronger, with a better energy union. we will become safer and we will secure affordable energy. but we must act. we must act now and together.
mr president, commissioner, in a war situation our adversaries have taken advantage of our weaknesses to manipulate the market and create a difficult situation for everyone, in particular for the most vulnerable consumers and the most disadvantaged businesses. the oral question which has led to this debate could not be more timely. the fact is that the 'repowereu' package presented today by the european commission contains responses in line with what was requested in it. market price regulation, although unfortunately not going as far as necessary in decoupling price elasticity from gas price, direct support to businesses and consumers, the possibility of joint purchases in the market, the obligation to build up reserves, increased and more simplified investment in renewable energy, the strong bet on green hydrogen, the creation of a resilient and fluid market through more interconnections. commissioner, we learn from our mistakes. one of the mistakes we made was the systematic blocking of the reinforcement of the iberian peninsula's interconnections with the european market. these interconnections, and in particular the third interconnection from portugal for gas and hydrogen, are a priority which will now have to be put into practice.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a situation that is unprecedented. energy and fuel prices are at record highs. after the autumn wave of the energy crisis coupled with the war in ukraine, this is now creating additional pressure on households and businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones. so now is the time to take advantage of all the options available to slow or, ideally, stop price increases. otherwise, they risk becoming a source of instability in our europe as well. we must not hesitate to provide a quick, decisive and effective solution. we need to reduce the tax burden, whether it's vat or excise duty, to stop speculating with subsidies, to add compensation to those who are most affected by energy and fuel prices. we can't afford to have a corporate collapse in this situation. for the future, we must strengthen europe's self-sufficiency and diversify its resources, both traditional and renewable. we can't limit ourselves here now. the impact of current climate legislation needs to be assessed very well in the current context. my colleagues and i have therefore written to the commission to ask for this step and we are awaiting a clear answer.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, a good tax system is the foundation of a functioning and credible economy. simplicity, efficiency and fairness are the key elements. this is critical in the recovery from covid-19, but also in today's security crisis. so we should not delay in asking certain questions. the vat system must be adapted to the 21st century. in the context of the current crisis, member states should also have the maximum scope of tax measures and flexibility to enable them to provide effective assistance. the commission should present a proposal for a directive on the exchange of information on crypto-assets (dac 8). the commission should also present as soon as possible simplifying and modernising rules, the so-called vat package for the digital age. any work on the vat system must aim at improving the legal framework and not at creating new tax complications. we should also address the issue of a uniform tax registration. member states should have confidence that the relevant rules for the collection of taxes will function. so it's only fair that their adjustment be a compromise for all. that should not be forgotten. a good solution is one that everyone supports. calling for a departure from unanimity is only an alibi for resigning to find the best solution.
for the ecr group. madam president, i'm glad we're all in agreement here, and we're naming the russian invasion with the right words, and we're calling putin the war criminal. it is also good that we all see the threats both in the form of large waves of migration and the threat of food shortages. we agree on the name of the problem, but not on the solution. the czech republic now hosts more than three hundred thousand refugees on its territory. it provides arms and humanitarian aid to ukraine, and our prime minister was personally with the polish and slovenian to support president volodymyr zelensky in kiev. we support the toughest sanctions possible to end the war as quickly as possible. that's the key. we support ending russian oil and gas imports so that we don't have to deal with the influx of millions more refugees and the threat of famine not only in ukraine but also in north africa and the middle east. and here's the difference between the member states. while many are helping, like the czech republic or poland, others, like germany or hungary, are not willing to sacrifice even the euro and are afraid of slower economic growth and are sending millions of euros to russia every day to buy more tanks. if we want to stop this war and also end the rise in food prices, we must act quickly. we have to act hard and we have to act together. the resolution we pass tomorrow won't do us much good. only true action will help.
i have to say, madam president, i think we can all agree that people, institutions, big companies that exploit war are despicable. it is despicable to use war to gain personal advantage. but i want to say it very, very clearly in this house: it is despicable for the epp to use the war to push its own agenda on agriculture. it's despicable! i want to mention that word here because it's about exactly one thing: you're putting your old agenda your old agenda pesticides on ecological priority areas your old agenda more meat your old agenda against the green deal, your old agenda against farm to fork you're putting it now in the shadow of a war. as an s&d woman, i find it despicable that you would do such a thing. and i would like to say something to you, commissioner, in just as harsh terms: you have been standing here for minutes talking about a headline 'this is about 'within the eu' and 'outside the eu'. and you don't say a word about africa, not a word about other people starving. they even talk about how we can actually feel quite safe we're all right, we're in good hands. and you don't understand that others are starving. they don't name it. i would also like to say that i cannot understand that. actually, i like you. but today i was very, very disappointed in you. yes, it is! the situations, the way we have them today, violent situations, need these violent words. and i hope - i hope the epp has until tomorrow to withdraw its five amendments, which are so strong, to make it clear that they are concerned with the cause and not with their old agenda.
the question posed by the blue card. i have a question for mr. ughur. i am completely shocked by what you said here that the sanctions are aimed at trade, against production in the countries of the european union. you know very well that these are sanctions to prevent the putin regime from continuing to produce weapons that kill children, women, old people, that destroy agriculture in ukraine. i want to ask you, because we're talking about ukraine: what do you want to do so that you don't have to watch russian planes bomb ukrainian land, killing farmers, killing animals, killing, destroying hospitals? i want to ask you, what did you do for that and what will you do for that?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, for too long europe has taken peace, as well as food security, for granted. the russian attack on the ukrainian people has shattered this conviction, with profound humanitarian, political, social and economic repercussions. the measures put in place today, which meet the demands of this parliament, mr commissioner, are a first and important signal to our producers: the union stands by you, with choices to boost productivity and with the mobilisation of €1.5 billion to support the sectors most affected. but we cannot turn war into an instrument and call into question the strategic objectives set by the green deal. on the contrary, the renewed focus on food security must create the conditions for achieving greater strategic autonomy for the union, including in agri-food markets. to meet this challenge, we need a true global food policy, one that overcomes the positions that would lead to the decline of our productive potential and thus makes farmers a formidable weapon to ensure sufficient, sustainable and quality food for all.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for this communication, especially for including fisheries and aquaculture, which, together with the whole value chain of seafood products, are key sectors contributing to food security in the european union. thank you very much. however, the measures for fisheries are clearly insufficient. the fisheries and aquaculture sectors have been facing a difficult economic situation for months. we are concerned that ships in many member states are being docked as a result of the sharp increase in costs. it's time for urgent action, not pretty words. compensation for operators for lost revenue or additional costs, storage aid and compensation for temporary cessation of activities are needed. we also need to increase the ceiling on de minimis aid and increase the flexibility of interannual quotas. exceptional circumstances call for exceptional and courageous measures for agriculture, for livestock and also for fisheries.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, a few minutes ago we were struck by some very serious news. madeleine albright, the first czech, the first woman in the office of us secretary of state, who worked hard after the fall of the iron curtain to integrate central and eastern europe into the democratic world of the eu and nato, has died. i hope that what we're doing here will continue to support her legacy. we're in a situation we haven't faced in decades. for the first time, the affordable food that many have taken for granted is under real threat. we should thank all the farmers who produce food for our citizens. commissioner, steps must be taken to avert the social breakdown of european society. the combination of energy, interest and food inflation is a dangerous cocktail for our unity and cohesion. thank you for your quick response and we will support you in every way. in the short term, the priority is to help the ukrainians, their agriculture and to maximise food production in europe. in the medium term, please consider using the trade management tools provided by the treaty. we need to stabilize markets, stabilize commodity prices, and begin a transformation that will address our long-term dependence on energy, on staples, and especially on protein.
rapporteur. – mr president, in the last few years, the republic of moldova has faced an exceptional triple crisis, namely the covid—19 pandemic, the energy crisis and the prevalent fight against systemic corruption and nepotism that caused significant weaknesses in several sectors, including limited administrative capacity. while moldova is still one of the poorest countries in europe, the economic recovery plan for moldova can be an essential stimulus for mitigating the effects of the pandemic, the energy crisis and state weaknesses, while also creating the changes needed to make moldova more efficient and resilient to coming changes, which will be more than plenty. currently, there is tremendous potential for necessary reforms, which would be a shame to miss. even though moldova has already taken some reform measures to combat corruption, organised crime and illicit financial flows, there are still significant opportunities for strengthening, notably in democratic institutions, improving decentralisation and implementation of crucial reforms concerning the institutional set—up of the public administration. moreover, the critical state institutions in moldova also need to be strengthened to make them more resilient against capture, which has been problematic. developing a rigorous framework to preserve judicial independence, integrity and accountability is critical to addressing corruption and reducing routes for political influence, sowing more trust in the legal system and improving access and delivery to justice. the proposed eur 150 million macro-financial assistance (mfa) operation for moldova is foreseen to be disbursed in three equal tranches to be released between 2022 and 2024, with the first tranche disbursement envisaged before the summer. the financial programming over the 2022—2024 period allows for a grant component of eur 32 million to be financed from the available budget. the proposal for mfa to moldova is provided as an integral part of international support for the economic stabilisation of the republic of moldova. as usual, the disbursements would be conditional on satisfactory reviews under the imf programme and progress on implementing the eu—moldova association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). in the light of all the considerations at this plenary, i believe that the european parliament should agree with the committee on international trade (inta) to approve the commission’s proposal to provide micro-financial assistance to moldova. it is essential to consider the whole picture. the republic of moldova is following a good reform trajectory, even though some spheres still need to be strengthened, the right conditions are presently fulfilled for our support. i will address the commission in my final remarks, but allow me to stress also at this point the need for the commission to include policy reforms into the memorandum of understanding and to ensure clear conditions. given the current situation in europe, i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the republic of moldova for taking care of the refugees from ukraine fleeing the russian aggression war, despite the fact that it has its complications for such a small nation.
rapporteur. – madam president, i tried to catch the eye, but i was unsuccessful so i will waste a little bit of my precious seconds to just remind a few of my colleagues that the mfa so very important for moldova is not related to the refugee crisis and to the war. thank you. and as for the remarks i promised on the commission and our role, first, i still stress the need for the commission to include policy reforms into the memorandum, such as addressing asset recovery linked to 2014 bank fraud, continued public-finance management reforms, the justice sector reform, enhancing transparency, accountability, etc. and i emphasised that each instalment disbursement should be linked to clear conditions. secondly, i want to note that it is shameful that the european parliament does not enjoy an adequate role in the mfa process, despite being a co-legislator. mfa is assent with urgency and as a consequence the ep cannot have proper scrutiny. furthermore, the political conditionalities are agreed only between the commission and the recipient country in the framework of the memorandum of understanding, where the parliament has no say. that is why i need to stress to the commission that the european parliament must get duly informed throughout the disbursement of the mfa programme. you should monitor and rigorously control the fulfilment of these conditions and inform us throughout the whole mfa process. thirdly, the mfa combination of loans and grants, where loans usually have the most significant share, is not that favourable. currently, moldova is seeing the impact of war, raised energy prices and some additional costs. thus i welcome the commission’s efforts to find also some other ways to support moldova in stabilising the economy and facing the new unprecedented challenges. the macro-financial assistance is not already sufficient to cover the financial gaps, so this would be very important.
madam president, the commission’s repower eu communication is important. it shows how much we finance the war machine in russia, which began one month ago today. how much does it mean? 30 times eur 700 million. i don’t want to count that. but i find it promising that the commission statement is now working on speeding up the transition, and looking at how the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle can be implemented for next winter, and especially in the years to come, and fast permits for renewable energy could be more binding than just a recommendation. quick action is needed to diversify the sources, and gas storage obligations are important – or other fuel when suitable in some countries. so let us look ahead to the next winter or two. but let us not waste a single month in speeding up the transition, the availability and production of the heat pumps, solar panels, energy efficiency actions, renovation. all these. every month counts, and we can reduce export bills.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i certainly welcome the european commission's measures to reduce the impact of high energy prices and the measures that are the result of the war in ukraine. and yes, we're building even more renewables, and yes, let's focus on energy efficiency, but please, not energy efficiency in general. some member states will have to adjust their decarbonisation pathways as a result of the war in ukraine and simply will not be able to afford to increase energy efficiency as much. so instead of having broad, binding targets in energy efficiency, let's focus on supporting those countries that can actually increase efficiency, and give them some incentives. furthermore, please note that the reduction in imports of energy commodities from russia will lead to a shift away from coal. this will require amendments to the legislation in force and under discussion. please focus on this and make proposals so that coal resources are not discriminated against during their essential operation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, russian gas and oil are stained with ukrainian blood and we must end it. right now! and to correct the mistake of repower eu, when we unfortunately told putin: "we'll be dependent on you for another seven years like cocaine and then, snitch!" he's playing us again. he said, "i don't want the euro, i want the ruble". so now we have the opportunity to finally tell him: "we don't know the ruble, it's not a currency. and if you don't want the euro, we'll send it to a special account, to escrow accounts, you get nothing. it will be a means of reparation for ukraine when the damage from your war crimes is reckoned. let's not waste this chance!
madam president, let me raise a question on behalf of the ecr. i think that this putin aggressive war against ukraine has changed everything. and the countries which are hit most by that are the countries of central and eastern europe. they are hit by security dimension – they must arm, so nato is very helpful here. they are hit by humanitarian crisis, you know, 3.5 million refugees were accommodated in the families, not in the camps of our countries. and in the matter of 4 weeks, not in the matter of 1 million in a year like 2015. we are hit by the energy crisis. we will be hit by food crises. for the time being, we just hear that, you know, we are going to punish for the poland, hungary, which it don’t bring any results. you know, we can see this in the election just over the weekend. so do you have something positive also for the central and eastern european countries in the time of when they are in real need of some solidarity?
you know, now it’s just 80% are the little kids and the rest are their mothers, you know – that’s a bit different. but the question on gas. you were talking about the common purchases on behalf of the eu. so what we see now in qatar is just a run by germany, italy, the member states to buy the last remaining gas. so is the commission going to qatar?
madam president, yes, this european parliament has said loud and clear that putin's brutal war against ukraine and its people is illegal and that the european union must do everything in its power to stop it as soon as possible, and it has also said that the war crimes, of which we have irrefutable evidence, cannot go unpunished. but neither war nor war crimes can take away from our radar the other very flagrant and very painful violations of human rights which were discussed in this european parliament not long ago and which, however, have now been pushed into the background until they have become virtually invisible: the subjugation of afghan women to the tyranny of the taliban, who returned to power on 15 august. the european union celebrated the humanitarian corridor that ensured the safety of women and workers with the eu missions and their embassies and their values, who risked their lives because of the return to power of the taliban. and now we know that the taliban have completely excluded women from the education system, that from the age of 12 they are completely excluded from opportunities, that of course they are already out of university, with the only horizon of their labor and sexual subjugation to an oppressive, regressive, intolerant, medieval society, and the question we ask the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, josep borrell, is what can the european union do to change that roadmap, so that all the development cooperation and humanitarian aid that the european union has spent so much time on in afghanistan, that can still be capitalized on in favor of the fundamental rights of women brutally violated in afghanistan, can have a horizon of hope?
madam president, the women and girls of afghanistan wonder if they will ever complete their education. the taliban alone are responsible for this tragedy and intensified diplomacy is now necessary. but these girls might also ask, and i’ve heard them ask this question: why are you starving us to protect our human rights? twenty-two million afghans are acutely food insecure. famine is on the horizon. this humanitarian catastrophe has been rightly described as a catastrophe of choice, as though it was actually designed by the international community. in the name of women’s rights, all international aid was suspended. in the name of women’s rights, all afghan assets were frozen. in the name of women’s rights, the central bank and public services are now collapsing. women’s rights begin with the right to life. this is why we need to make sure that no girl or woman goes hungry, that we step up cash assistance to provide women with the means to survive, and restore liquidity in the state by setting clearer benchmarks for the release of afghan assets and prevent the collapse of the central bank. and this will mean revising the council’s benchmarks for engagement. if we do not address this economic and humanitarian emergency, girls will simply not survive the opportunity to return to school.
madam president, while we watch with horror the horrors that are happening right in our neighborhood, we must not forget what is happening in afghanistan. unfortunately, this is especially true for women and girls, of whom there are nearly 20 million in this country. it is unjustifiable that the taliban have banned education for girls above sixth grade, robbing them of the chance to have a full life in the future. education for all without distinction is the foundation for the development of any society, 87% of afghans are for equal education, and therefore the european union must create such diplomatic pressure to make education accessible to all. we also need to push for the reopening of shelters for victims of domestic violence so that women do not have to return to their abusers, some of whom are now facing death for leaving their homes. and we must not forget the utterly inadequate care of the disabled. the eu must do everything it can to help people with disabilities in the country, and at the same time prepare a new programme so that these people can seek appropriate care from us, in the european union.
madam president, dear colleagues, and unfortunately not mr borrell. after this summit, the chinese leadership has shown to be in a dilemma. it intends to continue the extremely profitable economic relationship it has with us in the eu in order to keep its economy out of recession. at the same time, china signals support for putin and his war in order to balance against nato. china is also the country, if i may remind you, which believes that it can bully one of our member states into submission with a mix of economic and diplomatic coercion and secondary sanctions. even before putin shattered a long-loved fairy tale of the ‘change through trade’, the eu found it harder and harder to cooperate with authoritarian regimes that break international law on a daily basis. we must do our part to make it clear to chinese policy planners that this double game is not going to work. our economic anti-coercion instrument comes at a very timely moment for this – designing it to be quickly applicable and veto-proofing against single member states should be our goal – not just to help china decide which side it is on, but to signal to all authoritarian regimes that they either play by common rules or that they will stop profiting from our export market, our technology and our investment and trade. i will thank you once this is done.
madam president, it has been almost two years since our last resolution on the breakdown of the rule of law in hungary and poland. i regret to say, however, that since then there has been no significant improvement. both governments continue to persistently attack the independence of the judiciary, freedom of the media, and the individual rights of women and minorities. in the case of hungary, i am very relieved that the commission has finally listened to parliament's recommendations and decided to trigger the conditionality mechanism, for which i thank you, because viktor orbán will no longer be able to build a dictatorship in the country with european money. in any case, it would be a big mistake to forget the deteriorating situation in poland. i understand that the war in ukraine is overshadowing this a bit, but it has to be addressed because we simply cannot allow the polish justice system to be destroyed. especially now, at a time when millions of people are actually fleeing ukraine, we must ensure that the rule of law in the european union functions properly and protects people from arbitrariness and discrimination. so i would ask the european commission to take further steps to protect democracy and just get it done.
author. – mr president, in many ways we know even less of what is happening in north korea today, since the country has completely shut its borders using the covid pandemic as a pretext. what we do know is that the humanitarian situation of the population has worsened on average and that starvation and famine are a growing reality. we also know who is keeping kim’s head above water: the neighbour who profits from a divided korean peninsula and the human trafficking of desperate koreans. the regime continues to evade embargoes and sanctions only through massive economic support by china, with which it conducts most of its trade. in order to help the people in north korea, to allow food and humanitarian aid to arrive where it’s needed and to let independent un observers enter the country, the eu must use its economic leverage with china. that is, if we are serious about north korea and its citizens.
for the greens/efa group mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the mental health of many citizens has been and is still being put under severe strain by the covid-19 pandemic, followed by the war in ukraine and the resulting socio-economic crisis. health systems are faced with high and varied levels of stress, anxiety and depression. young people with socioeconomic disadvantages are particularly at risk. radical upheavals and rapid social changes, including sudden exposure to poverty, abuse of power or existential fears, can trigger psychological distress, especially as these young people often have neither the opportunities nor the means to find appropriate support for their needs, and in all countries mental health problems are much more common among the poorest people. in order to address these problems, we need to have a european strategy on mental health which puts a particular emphasis on mental health problems faced by children and young adults. it is also urgent that we offer low-threshold psychological support services, services that are accessible and affordable. access to these services must be easy and unconstrained. it is necessary to analyse and remove barriers to access to emergency care and psychological support. in these extremely difficult times, we must propose social and financial measures for young immigrants, those belonging to minority groups and people living in economically precarious situations. it is also essential to promote prevention, early diagnosis and direct access to individualised psychosocial support to ensure rapid recovery. commissioner, it is time to propose a european strategy for mental health. calls on the commission to also take into account the parliament's resolution of july 2020 calling for a european mental health action plan to address the multiple facets of mental health, and more particularly in young people and children.
for the left. mr. chairman, my dear colleague, colleagues, commissioner, after two years of the covid-19 pandemic, where we have had a huge increase in suicidal ideation, up to 70 percent of hospitalized patients, several hundred percent increase in emergency departures for self-harm in children, new depressive and anxiety disorders have developed, especially in children who have not previously been in psychiatric care, there has been an increase in eating disorders, and the time is coming when we need care for tens of thousands more children, and we don't have it. we're not gonna solve this today, right here, right now. but i am very pleased that the commission is beginning to think comprehensively about this problem, because this problem will take decades to solve. but it's impossible to accept the long-term shortage of child psychiatrists that's associated not only with health care, but especially with education, because that's where it all starts, in medical schools. we need to motivate young doctors to study child psychiatry, to practice it, and to be interested in it. these are all things that are on the table, and i firmly believe that the commission will take this really seriously and that we will perhaps say to ourselves at some point that we have succeeded.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we live in challenging times for our mental health, and today, on world health day, we must ask ourselves if we have exhausted our emotional reserves in the last two years. this was a time of daily adaptation to stress, because, in addition to genetic predisposition, mental health is subject to a number of factors, such as conflict, socioeconomic background, and now war. coping with stressful situations requires that we adapt and find appropriate strategies. it is a serious problem, and let us be frank, it is still a taboo subject in some countries. the costs associated with poor mental health in the european union in the pre-pandemic period are estimated to have reached eur 600 billion per year, around 4% of gdp. it is expected that this number could be much higher in the post-pandemic years. this should be done by giving special attention to the most vulnerable groups such as health workers, young people and children. it is a horizontal issue that affects policies in a range of sectors other than health, including education, employment, the fight against poverty and many others. for this reason, i believe that we need a holistic approach to provide adequate and sustainable responses to this growing health sociological challenge. for the past six weeks, we have witnessed the daily seismic scenes of war-torn ukraine. violence, death and insecurity. i support the efforts of the commission, member states, health professionals, as well as ordinary people who assist displaced persons from ukraine in their daily contacts. thank you for all your unconditional expressions of solidarity. i call on the commission, but also on you, ladies and gentlemen, to make a strong commitment to this important issue. with all the support we've had so far, it's still not enough. mental health problems deserve greater public attention and more resources for support, research, and treatment. thank you very much.
mr president, commissioner, even before the covid-19 pandemic, mental health problems affected some 84 million europeans. and that number has doubled during the pandemic. and that has cost us, and is costing us, more than 4% of gdp, which is more than 600 billion euros. the pandemic has also had an impact on children's mental health. the rate of suicidal thoughts has increased significantly. many of the children began to suffer from depression or anxiety disorders. and there's also been an increase in eating disorders or self-harm. furthermore, the problems caused by social exclusion and the problem of physical and psychological domestic violence have deepened. a related problem is the shortage of child psychiatrists and psychologists. the situation within the european union varies, but in some areas care is not available at all or only when a child is thinking about or has already attempted suicide. mental health care can therefore no longer be considered a marginal issue. we need a european strategy on mental health. it must address mental health in all its aspects, from prevention to treatment to care, and cover all policy sectors such as health, employment, finance, education and social services. the establishment of a european year of mental health will also help to raise awareness of mental health, accelerating destigmatisation and providing a platform for stakeholders to exchange and share experiences and best practices.
madam president, commissioner, it has recently become clear that organic production will play an increasingly important role in the years to come. consumers demand it, and politicians and officials who set the rules for farming the land see the need. but the rise of organic farming has to be natural. both the supply of such production and the demand for it must be in line. at the same time, we must bear in mind the need to produce enough food for our population, which is even more important now in the time of the russian invasion of ukraine. as the ecr's shadow rapporteur on this report, i have to say that the rapporteur has managed to produce a balanced document which takes account of all aspects of organic farming, including any risks we have to eliminate. i consider essential in particular the need to develop an impact assessment of the new legislation, the need to bring the introduction of organic farming in line with market principles, the challenge of using innovative techniques such as breeding, and the flexibility for individual member states and their different starting conditions. we have managed to incorporate these conditions into the report, which is why the ecr group will support it in the vote.
mr president, i’ve seen many, many people cheer on the ‘hactivist’ group anonymous when they wage their own war against russians. when some of my friends travelled to ukraine to help ukrainians flee the country, others sit down behind a computer and show their heroism through ones and zeros. the same goes to other entities. ukraine built resilient cyber defence capabilities. the uk and us support ukraine with their cyber mission teams. we are, however, nowhere to be seen in this field, even though each day i open the news, i see several new cyber attacks in europe. that brings the question: will our citizens have to hope that anonymous will have the capacities to cover them too? or are we prepared to protect our critical infrastructure, data and information space? my friends are nice and i am sure they will help if needed, but this is our political responsibility as long, as we support democracy that is.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear state secretary, dear colleagues, we’ve been observing new revelations of wiretapping of journalists, ngo representatives and politicians practically every week. spying on our colleagues in this house, on the commissioner, on the head of the spanish government, political opponents of european governments – you name it. but this is not a movie from the period of the cold war. this is the reality of europe in 2022. if governments are in charge of this wiretapping, it is another proof of a collapsing rule of law. and no, mr zoido, it is not okay to wiretap people without a court order. i heard from some politicians that now it is not the right time to address rule of law issues in poland, for instance. i thank the polish government for the enormous help they provide every day to ukraine and its citizens. i truly do. however, that doesn’t mean that i will remain silent about rule of law issues. we owe that to polish citizens and to polish democracy. the war in ukraine is an unprecedented atrocity. however, we must not forget about the democratic principles this union is built on. spying on opposition and journalists in europe is a serious crack on its facade. some may say such cracks are just wear and tear, but they are not. they are a symptom of a much bigger problem.
mr president, dear colleagues, this house started to draft a regulation on trade in spyware eight years ago. i had the honour of being the one to conclude the dual—use regulation on behalf of parliament, where we achieved unprecedented transparency on spyware exports. allow me to address mr tarczyński, who lacks information apparently on this, because actually do you know why it is that after eight years this has been brought into the plenary finally and we vote on it – thanks to germany, thanks to the german presidency. because of finfisher, they prioritised it and that’s why we have this amazing piece of legislation. so tell me, what did poland and hungary do apart from blocking this regulation and apart from using this spyware? thanks to that, the european commission is now obliged to publish what spyware was exported from the eu, and we know that pegasus and similar spyware was being sold via eu—based sister companies in bulgaria, cyprus or luxembourg. so it seems our export control lacks control. how are we as the european union answering this blatant security hole? how has the eeas secured its infrastructure against such intrusions? and what will it take for us to finally sanction companies like nso? i hope that sitting in one room with those affected today will be the deal—breaker.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the war in ukraine has been going on for more than two months, and the day before yesterday, for the first time, my homeland, transcarpathia, was attacked with missiles. what did i feel? pain, fear, not being there, not experiencing it. we cannot imagine the feelings of women who flee in the midst of rocket attacks and bullets with their children in their arms, or who give birth in a subway station while the surface is being bombed. or those who arrive in a foreign country without knowing the language and trying to protect their children from human traffickers who are stalking them. the situation of ukrainian women is very difficult. despite this, the european parliament once again produces a report that is politicized, avoids real problems in many places and accuses hungary, for example, of baseless lies, which has already helped, cared for and welcomed hundreds of thousands of people. instead of playing games of ideology, the union should seek to help women who have suffered terrible traumas. help them to have protection, proper housing, care, medical attention. children should be educated and given a decent living. may 8 is mother's day in ukraine. let us pay tribute to the ukrainian women and mothers who are taking up the challenge, becoming breadwinners and, in many cases, caring for the elderly and children on their own. and let's do something for peace as soon as possible, because it's very terrible that (the president withdraws the speaker).
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when i see the atrocities that are being committed against women and girls in ukraine, where 25 girls aged between 14 and 24 were reportedly raped in a single house in the town of bucha and nine of them became pregnant, i am very worried and i say to myself: i am happy to have two sons, but they are also at risk of terrible atrocities during the war. then i am very surprised by the reactions of some, who call themselves the pro-life movement, who do not fully condemn these atrocities and encourage, as a protection against rape, to send pepper spray or beepers to ukraine instead of contraceptives or abortion pills. we should therefore help women who are raped and then become pregnant without any administrative or social obstacles in the individual member states if they ask for it. 90% of those who come to us from ukraine are women and children. girls are most at risk of trafficking, rape, and sexual exploitation. as a prevention of human trafficking, we can ensure that the people we offer help to are not lured by predators who want to take advantage of the situation. we do this through quality, affordable and well-organized legal ways to cross the border without the need for smugglers. another help in preventing the abuse of ukrainian women and girls is regular home inspections, where they often stay with their children. that's one side of helping. the second aspect of the assistance is to support their integration into society, whether through language courses and psychological support, which are very important, or through assistance in finding accommodation and employment that best matches their qualifications. the european union must coordinate this assistance and ensure effective sharing of good practice. thank you to all the colleagues who are on our side, and thank you to the commissioner for her great work.
mr president, the republic of moldova has had challenging times in this unprecedented crisis. combined with the effects of the russian war of aggression that raised energy and commodity prices, it has all had a detrimental impact on moldova. hence, the eu’s help and assistance are crucial in this situation. the country certainly needs its reforms improving decentralisation, crucial reforms considering concerning the institutional set—up of the public administration and resilience against state capture. at the same time, the moldovan government has been eager to continue to work on its reform, and to have the eu in close integration and sectoral cooperation. the moldovan citizens spoke, and chose to deepen european relations. we need to support our friends in the eastern partnership, and that is why we should highly endorse granting the candidate’s request, based on merit.
madam president, the rule of law is not a luxury. they have to pay the same everywhere, in hungary and in poland, for example. because we cannot let europe fail because of corruption, inequality of the courts and censorship of the media. and today, more than ever, we must defend these values, because they are the foundation of european civilization. poles, including many ukrainian refugees, need access to fair trials, objective information and protection of basic human and civil rights. that should be a given. i wanted to thank you, the rapporteur, and the whole parliament for supporting this report, because once again the european parliament has shown itself to be braver than many member states, including my own. i would therefore ask the european commission to clearly identify the measures that need to be taken and, above all, to ensure that they are implemented. it also extended the scope of the report to cover the area of democracy and fundamental rights. because the rule of law always comes first, and without it, we'll end up somewhere in russia in corruption and chaos.
madam president, i want to thank ms lalucq. today is a necessary legal step for the implementation of what was agreed at the oecd, and that agreement should be implemented. it’s an agreement among sovereign countries to make sure hugely wealthy and profitable multinationals begin paying a fair share, or at the very least a share. that is long overdue. all countries which signed up should implement the deal as soon as possible. my party is wary of the eu overstepping on tax policy, which is precisely why we’ve always argued for a global deal to tackle this issue. the oecd is not representative of the developing world yet it is a step forward. the irish model, which sees a huge amount of revenue coming from a tiny number of companies, is fraught with risks and now is the time to invest in a more balanced economy whilst protecting foreign direct investment and the jobs created.
madam president, commissioner, the oecd agreement allows for this global minimum corporate tax to be introduced; that is certainly good news, but setting the minimum tax at 15% of profits is not enough in our view, especially at a time when there are large companies, such as energy companies, which have made extraordinary profits of over 200 billion euros from the rise in the price of gas and oil. that is why we cannot welcome the commission's proposal to implement the agreement in the european union: because it does not increase the 15% rate and, above all, because it has many, too many exceptions in its application. we need tax revenue to enable the union to implement sufficient social policies against the consequences of the pandemic, the war in ukraine, the climate crisis, etc. we must therefore go further not only in implementing the oecd agreement but also in building a strong, permanent international tax cooperation, much more ambitious than the current one, leading us, for example, to adopt a tax on international financial transactions: it is a priority. tax harmonization at world level should be only the other side of the coin of much deeper tax harmonization within the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have long been witnessing forms of unfair tax competition, especially by multinational groups, and finally, after the agreement of the majority of the oecd countries, europe is now taking this step to implement an important agreement to combat tax avoidance and evasion, providing for a minimum taxation of 15%. the road ahead is long and tortuous, of course, since no agreement was reached at the last meeting of the european ministers for economic affairs, which again highlights the need to revise certain operating rules, first and foremost those of unanimity. this reform aims to address the tax challenges arising from the digitisation of the economy, by curbing the rush of some nations to create tax havens that allow multinational companies to move their headquarters based on the most favorable tax convenience. with minimal taxation of large groups, especially those outside the eu and those in the digital world, taxes will be paid in the country where the goods and activities that generate income are located. i welcome this proposal and hope that it will be a first step towards the establishment of a single taxation system within the european union and that, especially as it is being reviewed after the first five years, it will become even more ambitious in order to raise the necessary resources for funding programmes such as the next generation, which are needed to tackle the many challenges. the road we have taken is the right one, but there is still a lot to be done, especially within the union, to achieve tax harmonization and tax reductions for small and mediumsized enterprises.
madam president, there is one message to the commissioner: when you go out of this plenary room, take this parliament seriously. this agreement can be really historic. we are representing the citizens of europe, and this can be a really great moment. denn was muss denn noch alles passieren, damit endlich wirklich diese riesengroße vermögensungleichheit weltweit auch echt angegangen und geändert wird? ein krieg vor der haustür, die lebensmittelpreise gehen in die höhe, die energiepreise explodieren, wohnungspreise sind viel zu hoch. an einer weltweiten, faireren besteuerung von unternehmensgewinnen führt kein weg vorbei. multinationale konzerne haben überproportional von den corona-hilfspaketen profitiert, auch der onlinehandel, die streaming-plattformen wurden überdurchschnittlich genutzt. durch die einführung dieser globalen mindeststeuer für konzerne kann eine echte umverteilung von konzernen auf arbeitnehmer, arbeitnehmerinnen stattfinden und können steueroasen trockengelegt werden.
madam president, commissioner, multinational companies will only be taxed fairly if the new rules apply globally. it is essential that the second pillar also copies the substantive changes that have been agreed at the oecd and that there are only a few deviations that adapt the functioning of the directive to the internal market. the same rules should also ensure that in future there is no room for circumvention and that our european businesses are not put at a disadvantage. it is equally important that as many jurisdictions as possible join the agreement. especially those where the big multinational digital companies are headquartered. otherwise, the rules we agreed on will be meaningless. and please, let's not forget the first pillar, the reallocation of taxing rights. it should be implemented simultaneously to successfully complete what we're trying to do here. the commissioner has already said that the proposed deadline for transposition is not very realistic, but please do not put the member states under such pressure.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, when i was young and growing up in communist czechoslovakia, everything had to be explained by a class fight. now it looks like everything has to be explained with the fight against climate change. but, frankly, i think the conviction of some of our colleagues here – that the most important mission of our armed forces is to fight climate change and the most important goal of them is to produce tanks, artillery or even jets without any carbon emission – is just ridiculous. we do have the war behind our backyard, and we should do our best to project authority, power and deterrence. and i guess that if sir putin or emperor xi jinping is reading this kind of text, he's just laughing. so, therefore, i'm going to vote against.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that tomorrow we are about to have the most important vote in five years, a vote that will affect the lives of every citizen of the european union, a vote that will raise the price of energy for housing, heating, lighting, transport and food. all this in the name of saving the planet, in a situation where the european union's co2 emissions are less than 10% of the global emissions, and where the other countries that emit far more have not committed themselves to a radical programme like the one we are about to commit ourselves to here. in short, we want human sacrifice, but we offer no redemption. when the vice chairman of the commission introduced the climate bill a year ago, he spoke of the bible as our bible. and now we have seven bills to vote on, and suddenly the bible changes. parliament proposes to further increase our ambition. i remember the bible being something that lasts. the gospels aren't rewritten every year. of course, these proposals have been difficult to negotiate and they have some good things in them. finally, there's a brake on the dramatic rise in the price of allowances. the emissions in aviation, solving the corsia problem, it all makes sense. but there's a lot of things going on right now, and i'm very curious about how we're going to vote tomorrow, because there are hundreds of amendments, and then we're going to vote on the whole thing, which i think is deeply undemocratic, because what the hell. we still have the crucial vote to go. will there be free allowances, or will we decide to liquidate our industry just because of some cbam chimera, when we don't even know if it's going to work and if partners like xi jinping and others, when they file those carbon certificates, if we can even trust them? the european social fund as a solution to housing and transport enlargement i think the union is a little bit in the way here. she's taking responsibility for something that will turn against her when people revolt, so let's be careful.
i have to say, madam president, fit for 55 is the largest package of climate neutrality legislation worldwide by far. higher emission reduction targets require a revision of the existing climate policy instruments. the free allocation of emission allowances under the ets has ultimately failed the practical test. we've been trying for 17 years, and we've found that carbon emissions haven't decreased to the extent that we need to, certainly not globally. the free allocation system is therefore not working and needs to be replaced. this is where the co2 cap tax comes in. it contains a stop sign for those who want to continue to introduce co2-intensive products into our market. with cbam, we europeans are introducing a new global regime that takes climate action seriously and creates enormous competitive advantages for fast companies. and that's where the big opportunity lies. europe's products would become world leaders. the conversion to these new production methods must now be exploited through the available funding possibilities. it is clear to all that the year 2030 will bring many changes. my group is calling for the expiry of the ineffective free allowances this very year. this is not an unnecessary pressure but a clear objective to give all companies a comparable standard. cbam shall be fully operational from 2030 without any change in scope. this gives our companies a clear signal that will make them more competitive, and it also creates clear structures for a new, climate-friendly world trade in the long term.
thank you very much, mr. chairman, for being here with us. package ready for 55. we definitely need to protect the environment and the climate, we definitely need to get out of the recession after the pandemic, and we certainly need to protect ourselves from importing raw materials from russia. those are the three big goals of the package. but we also want the goto package for 55 to give our economy growth, to ensure that citizens support what we do in the union. five points on the ets, because it's the most important. first, free allowances for steel, fertiliser, cement industries should be until the cbam is proven and certain benchmarks should also reward businesses for low-carbon investments. we should limit the role of financial institutions in the ets, even if we don't agree with it, let's do it, because it's very important. increasing the modernization fund by 2.5 percent for the 12 european countries is a very important thing. municipal incinerators should be outside the sds system, it's very important for our local governments. and finally, the heating. if we want to fight smog, we need to have support for heating, but we really need to fight for the climate and the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when the european parliament voted on the climate law just a year ago, it made a specific commitment to reduce climate-changing emissions by 55% by 2030, with the dual aim of combating climate change and of innovating our production system and making it, precisely because it is more efficient and more sustainable, also more competitive. today, there is a third reason, after the war in ukraine, that makes that commitment even more stringent: reducing our dependence on fossil fuel imports which makes our countries more vulnerable and shifts wealth out of europe. the revision of the ets directive and the introduction of the new carbon border adjustment mechanism are two of the key pillars for achieving these objectives. they are necessary tools to accelerate the decarbonisation of our industrial system and at the same time prevent non-eu production not subject to emission control and reduction mechanisms from displacing domestic competition with lower production costs. to those in this chamber who, with pretexts, want to put the fit for 55 package in the drawer, we reply that without the ecological and energy transition we cannot get rid of our dependence on fossil fuels from abroad, the rising cost of electricity bills for citizens and businesses and a more sustainable environment for future generations. that is why we need clear, ambitious and far-sighted legislation with precise timetables and targets, which tells our industries, our trading partners and our citizens what direction europe is taking and which it does not intend to turn back on.
madam president, i would like to also drop a few words on the social climate fund, as the renew europe shadow rapporteur. this week we are going to vote the parliament position on this fund, and i am proud to say that this fund has been one of the political priorities of the renew europe group. the eu has quite steep green ambitions and this bears a risk of a negative social impact and therefore it is very logical and we welcome the existence of such tools, such as the social climate fund, simply to balance this risk and provide help to the most vulnerable groups of citizens and micro-entrepreneurs and businesses. to the design of the fund, we also welcome and we are pleased that through this fund we can support not only sustainable investments but also to a certain extent the direct income. member states then have a possibility to address their local situations through their climate plans to simply address specifically what they need. thank you very much once again and i believe that we will have a positive vote and we will enter into the next phase, which is the negotiation with the council.
mr president, the report by jan huitema on cars is wrong and if it does not change in at least two respects, we must oppose it. first, to tighten the targets even more for 2025-2027 is absurd. it's going to force people to buy electric cars, which will be expensive and have exhaust from a nearby coal-fired power plant. less emissions? no, not at all. and second, a total ban on combustion engines in 2035 is a gross mistake. it's against technological neutrality, it undermines competition in the market, it creates a monopoly, it brings a price. tens of thousands of jobs will be lost without replacement. and we're going to give a bonus to china and asia in general, which has a lead in software and batteries that this continent can't catch up with.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret to say that i see the european commission as having failed utterly, because instead of fulfilling its commitment to defend the rule of law in europe, it has cowardly and without a fight handed it over to the polish authoritarians. the polish government has not even come close to meeting the conditions for the recovery fund to be paid, but the commission has decided to give poland the money instead of listening to its own experts, its own members and the european court of justice. yes, i and all of us here are grateful for the polish response to the russian war against ukraine and for the help that ordinary poles are providing to refugees. but we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that the pis government is systematically destroying the judicial system there, because the judicial system is a fundamental element of democracy and the rule of law, and if we do not defend the rule of law, poland will become what russia is today, that is, a kleptocratic dictatorship. i am in favour of the commission guaranteeing the money of european citizens and ensuring that the member states play by the rules to which they have voluntarily committed themselves. we don't need a committee that can't do that, and we're going to have to figure out where to find one that can.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, upgrading the eastern partnership is a necessity, and i believe that it’s imperative to develop a strategy to address better security aspects of the eu’s eastern partnership policy, taking the security needs of the relevant partner countries as a starting point. the eu must strengthen the security dimension of the eastern partnership, make closer cooperation with csdp and create a security dialogue to enhance security and stability, but to mainly develop a more active role, especially in the peaceful resolution of the ongoing conflicts and prevention of future ones. i welcome enhancing cooperation through collaboration on building resilience to disinformation and russian state propaganda to counter the strategic weakening and fragmentation of societies and institutions. moreover, i strongly encourage the member states to cooperate with our eap partners on cybersecurity, including mutual intelligence, experience sharing on cyber threats and assistance in critical infrastructure. now more than ever, we must stress the eu’s commitment to all eastern partnership countries’ sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence within their internationally recognised borders. i believe that the result we are presenting today provides just that.
mr president, dear vice—president šefčovič, absent council, dear colleagues, the european parliament is the only directly elected european institution, yet it is not allowed to initiate legislation. representatives directly elected by the european citizens have only partial tools at their disposal to suggest proposals, and these are often disregarded, thrown away or heavily postponed by the commission. let’s be fair about that fact. hence, i will count on the support of the european commission president, ursula von der leyen, for the european parliament’s right to initiate legislation. nevertheless, declared support needs to be followed by actions. all 705 members are directly elected to represent people in brno, košice, dubrovnik and everywhere else. we are the direct voice of european citizens and therefore we should have the right to initiate legislation to fully represent and defend our citizens’ interests. as a matter of fact, citizens asked for it in the conference on the future of europe. i would like to ask the council what the member states plan to do about it. (the president cut off the speaker)
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, friends of georgia, georgian citizens, if you are listening. the media situation in georgia has been dire. journalists are violently attacked in unprecedented numbers. there are cases of intimidation, threats and persecution of journalists, and many criminal investigations against media workers and owners. moreover, i’m very disappointed that the government and other politicians are joining in the media witch—hunt instead of safeguarding the pillar of democracy and society. therefore, i remind the georgian government and authorities that the citizens of georgia have expressed their wishes of european aspirations. that includes upholding the highest standards of democracy, the rule of law, judicial independence and fundamental freedoms, including free and independent media. candidate status is not a one—way deal. we want to fulfil your citizens’ wishes. do you? if yes, you need to uphold some standards.
blue-card speech. – yes, thank you very much. i would like to make an additional statement, which is also connected to, let’s say, the position of s&d, so i do hope that mr cozzolino doesn’t mind to follow up on him with that. it concerns an amendment that will be upcoming tomorrow in relation to the resolution. and i really just want to make a personal statement towards georgian friends, towards the government and towards this body. i do think that bidzina ivanishvili is an oligarch, that we can find proof of his links to the kremlin and that possible sanctioning would be possible in the future. however, it has no place in this very concise and very important resolution on media freedom, and therefore our group will have to vote against this. however, that doesn’t mean that we in any way don’t think that bidzina ivanishvili is a problem behind many problems in georgia, and i want our georgian friends to hear this.
madam president, (start of speech off mic) and democracy sometimes is longer, it’s not the speediest, but it’s the best way to live together. so we are protesting against, and it’s in the controversy to what has been agreed at envi.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, two weeks ago in strasbourg, we failed, but decided to mandate a solution to the envi committee. the envi committee, by vote, decided that every political group would have the right to table their amendments. and then in the meantime, some kind of a back room deal of the three major parties here changed this, without the committee. so we, the ecr group, were ready to look for common ground and common solutions, but not under those undemocratic circumstances, not in supporting this package deal, which will bring more harm to businesses, which will bring more harm to poor people, and which will not solve the climate problem. so we, the ecr group, under protest against this undemocratic procedure, but also in disagreement with the substance of this so-called compromise proposal, will be voting against.
mr president, mr minister, mr vice-president, russia's illegal, unjustifiable and brutal war of aggression against ukraine has changed the nature of the european union. putin has made the european union a geopolitical entity and to that extent we must have new criteria and new standards for the enlargement of our european union. so, of course, we have to accept the candidate status of ukraine. the ppe has been defending it from the first minute and i have been defending it from the first minute. i welcome the french presidency, which was reluctant and reticent to grant the status of candidate country, and even more so the portuguese prime minister, antónio costa. it was really the will of the ukrainians and the pressure of this parliament that made chancellor scholz, president macron and then, behind them, prime minister costa come to recognize to the ukrainians and the moldovans what, after this aggression, has become a necessary destiny for peace in europe in the future, for prosperity. all the peoples of europe have the right to be part of the european union. the european union, not a european political community.
do you agree to respond to a blue-card speech?
blue-card speech. – it is also my football team, so the colour is the same. and, by the way, it’s the epp colour. senhora deputada isabel santos, queria só fazer uma pergunta muito clara. não vê uma contradição entre a entrevista que o primeiro-ministro antónio costa deu ao financial times, em que praticamente disse que não havia perspetivas europeias para a ucrânia, e a atitude que ele tomou passados quatro ou cinco dias? não vê que o presidente macron andou a dizer que não se podia humilhar a rússia e sempre a tentar, de alguma maneira, protelar a concessão do estatuto de país candidato, aparecendo depois lado a lado com draghi e com sholz em kiev? i made the question. is there or is there not a contradiction? that was the question. it was the first thing, by the way.
mr president, commissioner šefčovič, the commission’s recent recommendations to the european council to grant ukraine and moldova eu membership status was very encouraging news. we must make it clear that ukraine belongs firmly within our european family. our future lies together, side by side, in peace. this is also true for the republic of moldova, which has shown itself to be a great ally during the current crisis, ready to fight for a european future. i commend both ukraine and moldova and hope candidate status will be finally confirmed by the decision of the council tomorrow. as regards the decision on georgia, i acknowledge that it shares these aspirations, along with other countries of the western balkans, and these expectations should not be neglected. i am pleased that the european commission officially recognised its european perspective and offered georgia a specific guide to obtaining candidate status. i strongly recommend to the council to grant eu candidates status to ukraine and the republic of moldova, in line with article 49 of the treaty on the european union. a uachtaráin, tá súil agam go ndéanfaimid dul chun cinn suntasach ar an ábhar seo go luath.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have taken the floor here today because i wanted to ask you, minister - you are ending your presidency - if you do not think that the council should never, ever be absent from the agenda and the discussion of the situation of the citizens of the european union? today i had a debate in my country about the prospect of the european union, and i was asked what is happening with the future of the european union? people have become poor. i do not know, commissioner, what the president-in-office meant by the wind blowing in europe, but people have become poor. the wind blows in their pockets. i would ask the council that from now on there should be no council meeting without discussing these matters and i cannot help but conclude with the bitterness, mr minister, that in six months the french presidency has not succeeded this time either in putting romania on the list of countries that deserve to be in schengen, because it meets all its criteria. this discrimination leads to scepticism and mistrust. we need to enlarge the european union, but we also need to think about how we act internally.
mr president, dear colleagues, because of our lack of vision and political leadership, non—democratic regimes are today challenging european peace and security and threatening the stability of our neighbours. the doors of the european union must remain open to all european countries fulfilling the necessary criteria: ukraine, moldova, but also georgia, when it fulfils the necessary conditions. the countries of the western balkans who express a clear desire to join our union also belong in our family. it is my hope that one day a free and democratic belarus will join us too. however, we must also be creative about the integration processes for candidate and associated countries, done by establishing an enhanced and structured political dialogue with our partners, and to include them as observers in the commission comitology procedures and council working groups, as well as the specific meetings of the eu ministers and heads of state. let us work together already today with our partners to the east and to the south of our borders, sitting around one table to pursue a europe whole and free and to address the many challenges facing us today.
mr president, vice-president šefčovič, in the framework of the preparation of the european council meeting, it is important to send a clear message to a candidate country, to turkey. it is important to remind all of you here in this house that president erdoğan once again is demonstrating his revisionist approach to the treaties and he’s ready to violate international law. turkey is a candidate country and it’s also threatening stability in the mediterranean and the territorial integrity and sovereignty of greece, a member state, and also occupying illegally the north part of cyprus. in this regard, we have to act and we have to send a clear message.
president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall conclude this debate briefly by stressing three words and three objectives, which have been the basis of our action since the beginning of this war and of this european council tomorrow, in particular: solidarity, coherence and ambition. solidarity and coherence, first of all, because these have been the keywords of our attitude to the conflict in ukraine from the beginning. by providing support first - we have recalled, and i welcome again, the efforts of the european commission and the involvement of the european parliament - on the budgetary, humanitarian and military levels, in a way that has never been seen before with regard to the people and the leaders of ukraine. the attitude of solidarity and coherence, with a clear and united designation of russia as the sole aggressor, and with the regular and reinforced adoption of sanctions packages which already make the war effort led by russia more difficult. direct solidarity between member states in support of ukraine in the reception of refugees, at all levels, as i have indicated, is continuing. coherence and ambition also in the future of our european project. we must give a signal of openness to ukraine and the republic of moldova, and in a different way, perhaps with a different timeframe, to georgia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but with a sense of responsibility - and this is the coherence we have recalled - because we know that the opening, if it is decided, of a possible negotiation does not mean a quick accession. and i think it would be a disappointment to the ukrainians and to the europeans to force a process in a hurried way. but it is obviously extremely important to give a signal of european prospects and, beyond that, of candidacy. i think that's where the consistency and the ambition are. the european union must also be consistent, because planning for further enlargements when the time comes does not mean forgetting those who have been preparing for a long time with great effort and sometimes with difficulties or impatience. the countries of the western balkans are not to be forgotten. this was mentioned by the speakers in our debate and by the european commission as well. consistency is also important, because when a process can take time, it must be completed. this is the idea we have defended of a european political community. i hear she's asking questions, raising reservations. but we must work on it because there will have to be a complement to a process which will necessarily take time. ambition and solidarity, finally, because managing crises, giving prospects to our friends and neighbours does not prevent us - on the contrary - from working on the reform and future of our european political project. that was the meaning of this conference on the future of europe, let us not forget it. i heard it mentioned in these debates. the french presidency has been involved in this before the beginning of this presidency, during this six-month period, until the end, and i know how much the european parliament has defended this initiative, the taking into account today of its results. we work hand in hand across institutions, and the european commission is to be thanked for having made a number of follow-up commitments and proposals to the reforms proposed by the citizens. this conference, this preparation for the future of the european union, is also our best and, in fact, our only guarantee that a wider europe, an enlarged europe in the years to come, will also be a functioning europe. otherwise, i think we would be incoherent, we would lack ambition and we would lack solidarity beyond words. we therefore need to carry out these projects together, not by choosing them, not by selecting them, but by combining them, because our european future depends on it.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, minister beaune, first and foremost i would like to thank all the honourable members for the very clear support to welcome ukraine, moldova and georgia into the european family. i also appreciate the support for the european commission’s opinion that i think was very clear in the statements by mr kelly, ms garcía pérez, mr auštrevičius and mr bütikofer, who spoke just a few minutes ago, and indeed i believe history and the european family will, with these three countries and the countries of the western balkans, be stronger, our economy will be bigger and europe will be an even more influential actor on a global scale. on our side in the commission, i just would like to underscore and send a message to the peoples of these countries that we are ready to help. we are prepared to assist for the next steps, for opening, eventually, the accession talks, and to be ready for being the member of the european family. i would like to thank ms plumb and mr tudorache for acknowledging this readiness of the european commission. also, i think it is important to add to that this applies to georgia as well as to ukraine, moldova and all the western balkan countries. i also agree with the several of you who highlighted the importance – and minister beaune just said it a few minutes ago – to have to prepare also our union to function more efficiently in the 21st century, and to be prepared for working in this enlarged family. i think it was one of the very clear messages we heard from the citizens in the conference on the future of europe. it was coming very clear from the european parliament, and you have seen already our first commission reaction to the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe, how the commission is intending to go further, and that more clarity will also come in the state of the union address of our president, ursula von der leyen, and we want to put as many concrete measures as possible into the next the commission work programme. ms keller and ms garcía pérez have been also referring to north macedonia and albania, and here i would like to use the presence of minister beaune to thank the french presidency, and the minister himself personally for the important work the presidency is doing right now to unblock the talks with these two countries. we all would agree that north macedonia and albania have been waiting for a long time and now is indeed the time, and we hope that will happen very soon, that they will be able to move to the next stage. several members made reference to the food crisis – ms bonafè and mr tajani, and i think that we have to be absolutely clear here that the food and energy crisis is of russia’s making. weaponising energy supply led already last year to an increase of energy prices, but blocking ukrainian ports, bombarding grain storages and destroying the agricultural infrastructure of ukraine – even stealing ukrainian grain and then charging an export surcharge on agri—exports – is a deliberate push to create an artificial food crisis and tension in the world, for which russia is entirely responsible. we must be very vocal and explain this not only to our citizens, but also to our partners in africa, in latin america and other countries in the world. what we are doing on our side is that we are looking for different possibilities how to transport ukrainian grains and cereals, especially to countries in africa. we have introduced so-called solidarity lanes, we are using our railways, we are using european ports, to get the grain to the customers. and we are, of course, supporting the efforts of secretary general of the un in his talks to unblock ukrainian black sea ports so we can also resume using shipping lines for transporting the grain to existing customers. several of you made very pointed, and very understandable, points on the economic situation, on energy prices and on high inflation. as you know, these issues will be discussed by the leaders on friday. on the side of the commission, reflecting on the economic uncertainties of today, we have proposed to extend the general escape clause of the stability and growth pact for the next year. we have to learn the harsh lesson that dependencies cost a lot – be it in energy or in critical raw materials and we just have simply to rely more on our indigenous renewable sources and we have to diversify much more our supplies so nobody can threaten us with cutting supplies to us any more in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you very much for your comments. i think that this debate has shown very clearly that the great majority of speakers clearly support the commission's proposal to grant candidate status to moldova and ukraine at this historic moment, to make clear the european perspective for georgia and not to forget the western balkan countries, but individually: north macedonia, albania opening of accession negotiations, bosnia and the other countries candidate status. the next step in this historic moment is to open up everywhere, and this parliament says clearly 'yes'. i wish you all the best for the negotiations in the council this week. the joint debate is closed. the debate on the council and commission statements on the status of ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia as candidate countries was concluded by the presentation of a joint motion for a resolution, which shows the solidarity and unity of the european parliament. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i welcome the european commission's proposal to grant ukraine and moldova the status of candidate countries for accession to the european union and to grant georgia the prospect of joining the european union. i am convinced that all european countries must have the opportunity to join the european union. the enlargement of the european union is above all a question of fulfilling the conditions. candidate countries must fulfil all the conditions for accession. the process of granting candidate status does not end thereby, but begins.
in writing. this week we look forward to the historic eu step of granting candidate country status to ukraine and moldova. we are living through a difficult historical period when on our continent, alongside our borders, the struggle of the ukrainian people for the freedom of their country and the right to decide their own destiny is taking place. ukraine is demonstrating with determination that its future is with us, in the family of the european union, and it is our duty to make all possible for ukraine's european perspective. we cannot close the door on a country that has paid for its freedom with blood. ukraine is fighting for all of us, for our values and our freedom - and it's a huge price and sacrifice. colleagues, we must be united and responsible as never before. united in the fight against evil and destruction and responsible for their commitments towards ukraine. we must continue to make every effort to provide assistance to ukraine. russia's aggression has led more countries to turn to europe and seek a future in the european union. it is our duty to listen to these aspirations and to provide opportunities for both moldova and georgia to pursue a european perspective.
in writing. the strengthening of the european union is essential, and the enlargement process is an important factor in this. the inclusion of ukraine, moldova and, alongside them, georgia as candidate countries is therefore timely and necessary, both for the strengthening of europe's geopolitical role and for the security and stability of the continent. in addition to its political nature, it would also send an important message to the people of all three countries that their efforts and their commitment to the future of europe are not in vain. i hope that the european council will reach a positive decision which will help the peace process in war-torn ukraine, the fulfilment of the criteria for candidate status, including the copenhagen criteria, and guarantee the rights of national and linguistic minorities. hungary was among the first to recognize ukraine as an independent state, supported the conclusion of the association agreement between ukraine and the european union, the country's visa-free regime, firmly stands for its territorial integrity and sovereignty, and condemns from the beginning russia's aggression against ukraine. it helps the war-torn country and its people in these trying times. in this case, it is no different, we are still strongly supporting ukraine's eu candidate status, setting aside, but not forgetting, the educational and linguistic violations and atrocities against the hungarian national minority.
in writing. – today, it is clear that ukraine is part of the european family of values. the granting of candidate status is an important symbol in the wake of russia’s invasion. moldova has taken in more ukrainian refugees per capita than any other country. i am therefore very pleased that the european parliament has unequivocally supported candidate status for these two countries. the european commission supported granting candidate status to ukraine and moldova, confirmed by the leaders in the european council. we have sent a clear signal to our ukrainian and moldovan partners. however, this is not just a symbolic act. granting candidate status will strengthen the union, ukraine and moldova. it will show our citizens and theirs that our values matter more than rhetoric. it also has practical significance, as kyiv and chișinău will be able to draw on the financial aid needed during the war and for post-war reconstruction. candidate status is only the beginning. ukraine and moldova must now undergo the necessary reforms. the eu treaties do not provide for an accelerated process. i am pleased to support ukraine and moldova, as they begin their journey to become members of the european union.
executivevice-president of the commission. – mr president, it is a truly historic debate we have today, on the digital services act, on the digital markets act. and those who follow this debate, seeing such a number of dedicated committees, i think that shows what we’re doing here. it’s not just one committee, it’s not just a corner of the internet. this is a new rulebook that has been enabled, and for that, i am truly thankful. because it’s urgent. our aims, they seem simple: to make digital markets safe, to make them fair, to make them more competitive; for people to be online as if they were offline in dealing with other people, respecting what the legislator has decided as to what is illegal and what is indeed legal. so i wish to thank the lead rapporteurs christel schaldemose, andreas schwab, as well as the other rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and all the many members of this house who invested themselves in making this happen. and i want to join christel schaldemose in thanking the technical teams here in the european parliament, in the council, in the commission, who have worked to make this vision a real thing. i’m looking very much forward to the debate today because i think it will give more and more nuance as to what we have ahead of us, which is the next chapter, which is the enforcement, which is where business models, they will have to change, because we live in a democracy and the co-legislators are changing the laws of the internet. thank you very much, and looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, first of all, i would like to share with you all the satisfaction and pride i have today to be with you on this special day. it is a historic day which will be the culmination of almost two years of work with parliament, with the council and with the commission. i think i can say that the european parliament has been absolutely exemplary in this whole process. and first of all, i would like to thank, of course, all those who have played an absolutely essential role. the first is the rapporteur, christel schaldemose. thank you, christel, for these tremendously successful efforts. the rapporteur, mr andreas schwab, is also present. thank you, andreas, for your tireless work which has allowed us to be here today and to face the next vote with confidence. and thank you also to all the fictional rapporteurs who played an absolutely essential role. we just heard them. with these two texts, we have finally we can say unified our digital market. i am the commissioner for the internal market. we did not yet have a digital single market, it must be said. and today, that's really what it's all about. finally, with the dsa and the dma, we have enabled our 450 million citizens to develop in the same way in our european digital space. and in this internal market, which is also supported by one of the largest democracies in the world - if not the first - our democracy, the dsa and the dma will strengthen the rule of law and ensure better protection for our citizens in our information space, in our digital space. the european union thus becomes - it has been said - the first jurisdiction in the world to establish a true standard for regulating the digital space according to our democratic rules. as has often been said, dsa and dma are two sides of the same coin in establishing a new framework of responsibility for platforms with, of course, all that has been indicated: obligations against illegal content, counterfeit or dangerous products, incitement to violence and hate speech. it is no longer my fault, i am only a mediator. it's over now. it is also an innovative framework for the protection of fundamental rights, and in particular the fight against harmful content, but also, of course, disinformation. it provides more confidence in consumer protection in the market places. more protection also for social network users and especially - we have spent so much time on it - to protect children. and then more opportunities for innovative companies who will, once again, find access to this vast market under simple, strict rules that will apply to everyone. a new framework for online advertising to limit the use of data and protect the most vulnerable users. finally, a point that i consider essential: the opening of the so-called black boxes, the algorithms behind which, far too often and for too long, the platforms have taken refuge to hide what they were doing - too often, again, to the detriment of the interests of our citizens. these two internal market instruments create prudential regulation, in particular for systemic platforms. ten years ago, a new chapter was being opened, that of the banks that were called "too big to fail". now, a new chapter is being opened for the big platforms, which used to be called "too big to care". russian disinformation, the revelation of the capitol attack, online harassment and hateful content demonstrate the urgency of the dsa. it is also one of the reasons why parliament has worked so effectively to enable us to be here today and to take part in this vote. it is of course essential to implement these texts as soon as possible in order to protect our fundamental rights, which are attacked every day on the platforms, to establish healthy, fair and fair competition between companies, and to defend our democratic values in our digital space. ladies and gentlemen, i need not tell you that you can count on us, on me, on my commitment, on our energy in the implementation phase, which will begin the day after your assembly votes on these two texts. yes, i think it's safe to say that there will be in our history, and certainly in our information history, a 'before' and an 'after' dsa and dma. many thought that regulation would be impossible, too complicated, too ambitious, too subject to the well-known and measured lobbies. but today's vote shows us that when we join forces, much can be done, including what seemed insurmountable, with the european general interest as the only compass.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – mr president, dear colleagues, as a pirate i can only describe the digital services act as a missed opportunity which fails to protect our fundamental rights online. our privacy won’t be protected by the right for anonymity or encryption. data retention, browser tracking and surveillance advertising will unfortunately remain the norm. freedom of expression online won’t be ensured, as platforms will still be able to use arbitrary censorship tools, and politically influenced courts will still be able to take down legal content. however, i will vote in favour of this regulation today because, for the first time ever, big—tech platforms will have to report back to a common european public authority. they will have to put in place an effective redress mechanism and conduct regular risk assessments and independent audits. we also managed to impose strong transparency obligations and the possibility for users to choose non-profiling-based options. many opportunities were missed. the worst problems have been avoided. i am very grateful to all my colleagues who worked together with me in the econ committee. however, the fight for digital civil rights continues.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the agreement reached on the digital markets act sets new standards for how our digital economy of the future should work. it is about clear rules of the game, about legal certainty and fairness. it cannot be that a handful of companies decide what is offered, at what price, and who has access to these platforms. this not only discriminates against many market players, it also disempowers consumers. this is at the expense of price, choice and innovation. that's over now! the market dominance of internet giants such as google, apple, facebook, amazon and others is being curtailed, and their monopoly position is being severely limited. a look at the online booking market in tourism shows that there are massive problems in this industry as well. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of taxation of the transport of goods by road, which is to be introduced in the next few years. the agreement reached now clearly puts an end to exploitation of small and medium-sized suppliers. in short, the digital marketplace of the future will be fairer for operators, smes and consumers.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not the dma and the dsa are the right steps at the right time, as the online world and the large platforms play an increasingly crucial role in our lives and in our economy. we have certainly reached a milestone in the regulation of online content at eu level, but from the point of view of the committee on culture, i must point out, in addition to all the praise for the adoption of the dsa, some missed opportunities. firstly, the 'know your business customer' principle has not been extended to all online intermediaries. secondly, there is no guarantee that illegal offers of live and time-sensitive content will be removed immediately, and this is where the european commission needs to take the next step quickly to protect european content, which is also dealing with the problem of piracy of live content. only a bill that really addresses this problem and offers solutions will ensure that what is illegal offline should also be illegal online. furthermore, the obligation for intermediaries to respect the freedom and pluralism of the media in their terms of use is a core concern and must be enforced. the limits of media freedom are set by law and not by the terms of use of private companies.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not in both regulations, the committee on culture and education felt that it was necessary to strengthen professional journalism and protect the dissemination of editorial content. we have been largely successful in this in the dma. it will help us to prevent large platforms from exploiting their dominant position in the market through their contractual arrangements in the future - this directly contributes to the protection of press and media diversity. however, we have not succeeded in the digital services act to fully protect media content created by professional journalists, with editorial responsibility, which is already subject to full media law control, from a right of access and control by platforms. i also think that the rights granted to the commission in the area of content control go far too far from the point of view of the separation of powers. both are, in my opinion, medium-sized disasters from a media-political point of view. freedom of the press is threatened. we cannot, under eu law, put into perspective or even ignore the value of professional, diverse journalism in the press, on the radio and online. the opposite of "good" is "well-meaning". the commission should take this into account in its proposals for the media freedom act.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not the only one to have a problem with the european parliament. when i wrote my dsa initiative report, it was very important to me to work towards the end of personalised advertising on internet platforms in the european union. a large majority in this house has followed this call and called on the commission to put an end to spying advertising. i'm afraid that's not what happened. it will continue to be possible for platforms to collect data and use that data. we're seeing where this is going right now in the united states, where women who might want to have an abortion have to delete their data to avoid being prosecuted. this is a scandal, and at this point, i must say, we have not gone far enough. but we also made good progress in many areas - i am the author of the opinion for the dma - very, very good that we are finally moving in the right direction with interoperability! have we created a new digital constitution for the european union with this law? i think i did. is this basic law already perfect? i don't think he did. are we going to stop here? i'm not going to. it is our task to make the european union a digital stronghold of fundamental rights for its citizens, and we will continue to do so.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, i welcome the outcome of the negotiations on this digital package. the concentration of market power by one or a handful of companies is never a positive thing for competition. the digital markets act brings solutions to this problem. it will provide a clear and more predictable framework for the market, but also for enforcement authorities. it will prevent big platforms – the gatekeepers – from abusing the power and enable their competitors to innovate and grow. this is particularly good news for european smes. it is about a level playing field. until now, many smes have suffered from uneven terms imposed by the dominant companies. thanks to the digital markets act, small businesses should have more opportunities and better access to the digital market. digitalisation is way forward, but it is also essential that both european and non-european digital services providers comply with all applicable eu law online and offline. the dma is a good step forward to ensure that this is the reality and not just a theory.
mr president, the big tech created a strongly centralised digital environment because they want to exercise full control over our digital lives. but my political group has always been fighting to give power back to people over the technology they use. this means challenging the centralised digital ecosystem. this means ensuring that messaging services can interoperate, so that people are able to move to privacy-friendly alternatives, to switch between applications, to refuse intrusive surveillance advertising. because our fundamental rights can prevail over the commercial interests of the big tech as long as the digital ecosystem relies on covert tracking of individuals or when legal content is removed by error from filters. while we have a lot to do in order to protect fundamental rights online, the digital markets act will now challenge the big tech's power over our digital rights. and with that, europe is making a great step forward to better protect people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow’s vote on taxonomy is crucial. firstly, it is vitally important for the green deal. some member states cannot meet paris targets without nuclear energy because their geographical conditions do not allow full—scale use of renewables. secondly, taxonomy is vital for the future investment to deliver stable electricity for reasonable prices to our citizens. and thirdly, it is a test of to what degree our decisions are guided by solidarity and respect for the others. we do not press us the others who oppose the nuclear energy to use it, but please do not press us to stop using it if we are convinced that this is the only way how we can move forward. there was something on france, so i will talk about germany. germany led us into this mess with 100% dependence on the russian bastards. and now with disseminating this anti-nuclear hysteria, you are leading us to another mess. so please vote ‘no’ to the objections tomorrow.
the last item on the agenda for today is the explanations of vote.
that concludes this item.
the meeting is closed and will resume tomorrow, wednesday 6 july, at 9 a.m. with a debate on a priority subject: the statements by the council and the commission on the presentation of the programme of action of the czech presidency. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
good morning dear prime minister fiala, dear colleagues. on 1 july we welcomed the czech republic at the helm of the council of the european union, and today it is a pleasure to have with us prime minister fiala to present the programme of activities of the czech presidency. prime minister, dear petr, welcome to the european parliament. prime minister, you, along with the prime ministers of poland and slovenia, were the first european leaders to visit kiev when it was besieged, in a message of solidarity. we know that european unity with ukraine and its people will be central to the czech presidency’s agenda. and this is why, with an illegal war on our continent, your presidency comes at a turning point in history. so our next steps will be decisive for our common future. this is not the time to backtrack on our ambitions. we need to address the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. this is why we must accelerate our digital and green transitions. and here, the czech presidency can count on the commitment of this house to make progress on the fit for 55 package as well as the european chips act and the artificial intelligence act. dear prime minister, dear petr, just a few weeks ago, you welcomed us, together with all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, in prague. and it is in this constructive spirit that the european parliament will continue to work with your presidency on the many important initiatives on the table. on behalf of this house, i therefore wish you every success in the coming months. so, dear prime minister, i will now give you the floor.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear roberta, dear members of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, dear ursula, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to be here today to present the czech republic’s plans for our presidency of the council of the eu. this is the second presidency for my country, but the first under the lisbon treaty. we are building on the excellent french presidency. it has managed to complete a number of proposals successfully. it was not easy to find a compromise on such a difficult debate, like the fit for 55 package in the area of climate, or on new rules for the digital economy. but the most important thing that was achieved during the french presidency was a united action in response to russia’s aggression against ukraine. our response was quick, it was tough and, most importantly, it was united. six packages of sanctions were not approved easily. a number of member states had to give up their positions, some of their economic interests and some of their comfort. but, because we were convinced that it was right to stand up to russia and to help our friend and ally – i mean ukraine – we did it. together we also granted candidate status to ukraine and moldova. it gave them hope and faith in the future and in joining free, democratic europe. our presidency wants to build on this work. and now, according to the european parliament tradition, allow me to present the main priorities of our presidency in my mother language, in czech. paní předsedající, dámy a pánové, témata a priority, kterým se chceme věnovat, vznikaly po dobu mnoha měsíců, ale 24. únor 2022 otočil většinu plánů, které jsme měli, doslova vzhůru nohama. naše priority tuto novou situaci odrážejí. nacházíme se v době, kdy těsně za hranicemi evropské unie probíhá válka. klasický konvenční konflikt, o kterém si řada z nás myslela, že už je v evropě minulostí. ale kromě konvenční války vede rusko i hybridní válku. úmyslně vyvolává uprchlickou krizi, využívá energetické suroviny jako zbraň a cílenými útoky na infrastrukturu vyvolává potravinovou krizi. z našeho pohledu je dobře, že nás členství v evropské unii a severoatlantické alianci chrání před těmi nejtragičtějšími důsledky, kterým musí čelit ukrajinský národ. když jsem 15. března společně s polským a slovinským premiérem navštívil prezidenta zelenského v kyjevě, viděl jsem na vlastní oči hrdinství ukrajinců, kteří bojovali a stále bojují za právo na existenci a také za právo patřit k západním demokratickým zemím. to pro mě bylo připomínkou, že naše hodnoty nejsou samozřejmé a že je potřeba je denně hájit. hodnoty, za které dnes ukrajina umírá, jsou hodnotami, které hájil i jeden ze zakladatelů moderního českého státu, prezident václav havel. a právě jeho inspirativní esej z roku 1996 nás přivedl k mottu našeho předsednictví, které zní „evropa jako úkol“. a skutečně: evropa má před sebou mnoho úkolů. a podobně má před sebou mnoho úkolů české předsednictví v radě. tím hlavním úkolem v následujícím období bude nalézt jednotnou a silnou shodu na takových opatřeních, která negativní dopady současných krizí na naše občany co nejvíce zmírní. protože inflace, nedostupnost energií nebo potravinová krize jsou hrozby, kterým musíme čelit a musíme jim čelit nejlépe společně. já věřím, že v tomto bude jak rada, tak evropský parlament ve shodě. evropa jako úkol je pro nás závazkem. není předem danou věcí, ale je něčím, na čem je potřeba neustále pracovat, co je potřeba zdokonalovat. a také musíme upravovat to, co nefunguje tak, jak jsme ze začátku plánovali. evropa by měla vést příkladem – měla by dbát svého svědomí a postavit se čelem k výzvám. ta řešení musí být ale vyvážená, aby přílišný důraz na jedno z nich nepoškodil nebo nezanedbal jinou oblast, například sociální smír nebo naše ekonomiky. česká republika se bude vždy pečlivě snažit brát v úvahu všechny názory, které v našich diskusích zazní. musíme předcházet rozdělování nás samotných. musíme se vždy snažit najít co nejširší shodu. musíme také více respektovat názory a pozice ostatních, i když s nimi třeba nesouhlasíme. havlova slova o evropě jako úkolu vznikala v jiné době, v jiné evropě, než jakou máme nyní, ale jejich základní sdělení je stále stejně silné. za úkol si bereme heslo „rethink, rebuild, repower“, které odráží výzvy a problémy současné evropy a naši reakci na ně. české předsednictví bude chtít budovat bezpečnou a prosperující eu. takovou, která je věrná hodnotám svobody a demokracie. takovou, která umožňuje všem občanům volně cestovat, pracovat či podnikat na vnitřním trhu. takovou, která chápe, že máme odpovědnost životnímu prostředí, které musíme předat dalším generacím v dobrém stavu. takovou, kde stavíme na tom, co nás spojuje a respektujeme to, co nás odlišuje. takovou evropskou unii chceme! a tomuto cíli odpovídá i pět pilířů českého předsednictví, které bych vám chtěl postupně představit. první prioritou je zvládnutí uprchlické krize a poválečná obnova ukrajiny. ruská agrese přímo či nepřímo ovlivňuje všechny státy evropy. mezi její přímé důsledky patří i nejmasivnější uprchlická vlna od 2. světové války. česká republika je jednou ze zemí s největším počtem ukrajinských uprchlíků na počet obyvatel. ti tvoří přes 3,5 % naší populace. s ruskou imperiální politikou máme také svou trpkou zkušenost. víme, co dokáže agresivní politika ruska. česká republika je proto přesvědčena, že politická a vojenská podpora ukrajiny ze strany evropské unie je bytostným zájmem celé unie se zásadním dopadem na další budoucnost našeho kontinentu. české předsednictví bude proto důsledně hájit a podporovat suverenitu a teritoriální integritu ukrajiny za využití všech nástrojů, kterými evropská unie disponuje. důraz budeme klást na silný a jednotný postoj vůči rusku, jakož i na maximální asistenci členským státům při poskytování vojenské podpory ukrajině nebo při vyrovnávání se s následky migrační vlny. neméně důležité je hledět i do budoucna. na poslední evropské radě se nám podařilo schválit kandidátský status ukrajiny a moldavska. jsem rád, že nás v tomto ohledu velmi významně podpořil i evropský parlament a využívám této příležitosti, abych vám za to poděkoval. zde ale ta cesta nesmí skončit. dalším důležitým úkolem českého předsednictví bude i příprava poválečné obnovy ukrajiny. musíme se zaměřit zejména na obnovu infrastruktury, zajištění základních služeb a hospodářskou obnovu a stabilitu a v tom musí hrát evropská unie zásadní roli. to jsme koneckonců s paní předsedkyní von der leyenovou společně demonstrovali v pondělí na konferenci o obnově a rekonstrukci ukrajiny ve švýcarském luganu. cesta ukrajiny do evropské unie bude ještě dlouhá, ale společně se musíme snažit, aby byla úspěšná a aby evropskou unii posílila. druhou prioritou je energetická bezpečnost. současná krize plně odhalila, nakolik je pro budoucnost eu existenčně důležité zajistit si nezávislost na zemích, které ohrožují naši bezpečnost. řeč je teď samozřejmě především o ruském plynu, ropě a uhlí. cestou, kterou se chce české předsednictví vydat, je především práce na společných evropských projektech, které nás zbaví závislost na rusku. české předsednictví se zaměří na otázky energetické bezpečnosti, na urychlenou implementaci repowereu, jehož významnou součástí je také diverzifikace zdrojů. jsme připraveni pracovat na koordinaci zásob plynu před nadcházející zimou. podporujeme dobrovolné společné nákupy podle modelu, který se osvědčil už během koronavirové krize. při tom všem musíme mít na paměti, že se brzy můžeme ocitnout v situaci, kdy bude více než kdy jindy potřebná solidarita mezi členskými státy. nesmíme zapomínat ani na budování energetické odolnosti evropské unie skrze rozvoj energetické infrastruktury. musíme zároveň podporovat všechny domácí bezemisní zdroje energie, protože mají důležitou roli při zajištění energetické bezpečnosti evropské unie, ale také při plnění klimatických cílů. dlouhodobý cíl dekarbonizace evropské energetiky jde totiž z velké části ruku v ruce s krátkodobým cílem derusifikace dodávek energií, a tak se na ty věci musíme dívat. abychom se stali energeticky nezávislými na rusku, musíme využít všechny možnosti, které nám naše geografické podmínky umožňují. a vzhledem k velikosti unie a počtu členských států nemůžeme tady v tomto případě aplikovat jednotný vzor. každý členský stát musí mít možnost zvolit si takový energetický mix, jaký jeho podmínkám nejvíc vyhovuje a pomocí kterého je schopen splnit jak klimatické cíle, tak zbavení se závislosti na ruských dodávkách energií. pokud opravdu chceme klimatické cíle splnit, musíme je také být schopni v jednotlivých zemích financovat. zmiňuji to i proto, že dnes, dámy a pánové, budete hlasovat o námitce proti tzv. taxonomii, kterou evropská komise představila. chtěl bych zdůraznit, že to je velmi křehký návrh, návrh vyvážený, návrh, který vychází vstříc celé řadě zemí, které budou moci splnit své závazky vyplývající z plnění klimatických cílů pouze díky takto nastaveným kritériím. chtěl bych vás proto při této příležitosti také požádat, abyste tento složitě dojednaný a křehký kompromis neodmítli. jaderná energie a plyn jako dočasný zdroj z bezpečných zemí jsou pro řadu členských států jediným nástrojem, jak v následujících letech našich společných klimatických cílů dosáhnout. válka na evropském kontinentu ukázala také nutnost posílení evropských obranných kapacit a bezpečnosti kybernetického prostoru, což je naše třetí priorita. s ohledem na současnou geopolitickou situaci je klíčové posílení evropské bezpečnosti a obranyschopnosti. nato je v této otázce pro evropskou unii přirozeným partnerem a implementace klíčových témat v rámci strategického kompasu představuje ten vhodný nástroj. budeme pracovat na posílení evropské spolupráce při budování obranných kapacit členských států. urgentní je také doplnění vojenských zásob v souvislosti s pomocí, kterou jednotlivé členské státy poskytují ukrajině. za nutné považujeme také rozvoj evropského obranného průmyslu, včetně investic do snížení technologické závislosti na nedůvěryhodných zemích. v dlouhodobém horizontu pak budeme pracovat na usnadnění společných nákupů vojenského materiálu. s novou érou digitalizace se objevují i nové typy hrozeb, které jsou stále častěji využívány našimi protivníky a nepřáteli. budeme se proto také věnovat kybernetickým hrozbám a posilování odolnosti evropy vůči hybridním hrozbám zvenčí. týká se to boje proti dezinformacím nebo bezpečnosti kyberprostoru a klíčové unijní infrastruktury, včetně institucí. to vše musíme dělat ve spolupráci s našimi partnery a spojenci. naší čtvrtou prioritou je strategická odolnost evropské ekonomiky. už pandemie covid-19 odhalila některé slabiny evropské ekonomiky a přílišnou jednostrannou závislost na některých zemích. evropa musí být průmyslový a technologický lídr. klíčem k tomu je dobře fungující vnitřní trh bez zbytečných administrativních překážek, který posílí konkurenceschopnost evropských firem. musíme proto lépe rozumět dodavatelským řetězcům, které jsou pilířem našeho hospodářství, a ideálně je co nejvíce zkracovat. jenom tak dokážeme zajistit, že dostupnost strategických surovin a dílů bude pro nás vždy jistotou. klíčovou roli v tomto hraje prohlubování volného obchodu s ostatními partnery, kteří sdílejí naše hodnoty. čím více kvalitních smluv o volném obchodu budeme mít, tím více můžeme diverzifikovat naše obchodní vazby a dodavatelské řetězce. důležitá bude také digitalizace a automatizace evropského průmyslu, který opět musí být lídrem v inovacích, vývoji a hlavně využívání nových technologií. do oblasti strategické odolnosti evropské ekonomiky patří také potravinová bezpečnost. díky společné zemědělské politice se evropská unie stala potravinově soběstačnou, ale válka na ukrajině má dopady i na tuto oblast a evropská unie na to musí reagovat. nesmíme přitom zapomínat ani na nutnost zajištění dostatku potravin i v jiných částech světa, zejména v těch nejohroženějších. nejenom proto, že destabilizace by představovala pro evropu významnou bezpečnostní hrozbu. ronald reagan kdysi prohlásil, že svoboda není nikdy dál než jednu generaci od svého zániku. a já dodávám, že totéž můžeme říct o demokracii. proto je klíčová odolnost demokratických institucí vůči vnitřním i vnějším hrozbám. a to je naše pátá a poslední priorita. dlouhodobá prosperita a stabilita evropy je založena na funkčních demokratických mechanismech. naše společnosti jsou neustále cílem útoků od těch, kterým vadí naše hodnoty, kterým vadí svoboda a demokracie, kterým vadí lidská práva, kterým vadí právní stát. a my naopak takovéto hodnoty musíme bránit. budeme proto vždy důsledně podporovat dodržování a posilování svobod, základních lidských práv a evropských hodnot. budeme posilovat občanskou společnost, svobodná média a nezávislé instituce na celém evropském kontinentu. dámy a pánové, není pochyb o tom, že nás čeká nelehké období, a to nejenom s ohledem na krizi způsobenou ruskou agresí na ukrajině. potýkáme se s vysokou inflací, se stále rostoucími cenami energií. v některých našich zemích hrozí zvýšení nezaměstnanosti, některé možná čeká i pokles hdp. nesmíme proto zapomínat ani na ty občany, na které to bude mít základní sociální dopad. nesmíme zapomínat na chudé a potřebné. mohu vás ubezpečit, že i těmto otázkám se v rámci předsednictví chceme a budeme systematicky věnovat. dear madam president, dear members of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the six-month presidency is indeed a short time. however, i can assure you that the czech presidency is ready to take its role actively. we are ready to focus on an open dialogue, to seek compromises and functional solutions in cooperation with other eu institutions. i believe that we will be able to deliver on our promises. i hope that, with our help, ukraine will soon be on the way to full recovery. i also hope that we will be successful in the fight against inflation, in ensuring energy security, employment and increasing the competitiveness of our economies. i trust that we will be even stronger than we are now. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that we can count on the help of the european parliament, which is a pillar of european democracy. we highly value democratic debates on this floor, and i am looking forward to our debate. thank you very much for your attention.
president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we all remember the images at the beginning of the russian invasion of ukraine, when ukrainian citizens stood unarmed in the way of russian soldiers. people talked to the soldiers, some of them even shouted at them. you have denounced the absurdity of this war in all its frankness. and these images remind us of another invasion and another phase of europe's resistance to oppression: that was prague 1968. the unforgettable scenes of peaceful demonstrators, men and women, young and old, who stood in the way of soviet tanks in the streets of prague at that time. and that is why i can hardly imagine a better country to take over the presidency of the council of the european union than the czech republic. the people of the czech republic have experienced the torment of oppression. but above all, the people of the czech republic have experienced the power of resistance, the power of hope and, above all, the unbridled joy of the country once again being free and democratic. and more than ever we need this quest for freedom, this quest for independence and self-determination in our european union. and that is why, dear petr, i look forward to the czech presidency of the council for the next six months. the tasks ahead of us are enormous. you, petr, have summed them up with three words: rethink, repower, rebuild. and of course, the word rebuild calls to mind, first and foremost, the reconstruction of ukraine. i've just returned to where i met you, petr from the lugano reconstruction conference. and i think we witnessed a very impressive presentation of ukraine's reconstruction plan. representatives from more than over 40 countries and organizations agreed on the lugano principles: ukraineowned, reformfocused, transparency, accountability and rule of law, democratic participation, gender equality and inclusion, and sustainability, and i think these are good principles. now we have to fill them with life. and for doing that, we need the best and the brightest on reconstruction. and this is why, together with the german g7 presidency, we will convene such a high level conference after summer, because we all know never, ever before have we mastered such a colossal reconstruction challenge, so we need all hands on deck. and while we work in these days to help ukraine win this war, we must also make sure that ukraine wins the peace that will for sure come. you, honourable members, were the first to call for the european perspective for ukraine. and this led to the historic decision to grant ukraine candidate status. i think we can all take pride in this because our union lived up to the moment. we did exactly what václav havel reminded us of in his speech, which also provides the motto for your presidency. he has said, it is not that the united part of europe would come to harm if it expanded, just the opposite. in the long run, it would come to harm only if it failed to expand. and i think in these days, that really sounds like a prophecy. now, the second task you, the czech presidency, identified is repower. the unity and the resolve we show towards russia will therefore be key to repower europe. and this means primarily to push forward the very ambitious agenda of our european green deal, because climate change will not wait until putin's war is over. and the unprecedented heatwave that recently struck europe is just the latest reminder of that. now, i am very glad that both parliament and the council have taken their positions on fit for 55. so now, it's up to the czech presidency to bring forward the trilogues. and so i'm very grateful for your commitment, dear petr, to bring forward the repowereu package. with repowereu, we are mobilizing substantive new resources for renewable energy. it is a eur 300 billion plan to win independence from russian fossil fuels, actually from any fossil fuels. and to do so, we are first and foremost diversifying our gas supplies away from russia towards trustworthy, reliable suppliers. and our efforts are already making a big difference. i have reported several times here in parliament about that, so let me update you about what the latest efforts are. since march, global lng exports other than russia, to europe have risen by 75% compared to 2021. and lng exports from the united states to the european union have nearly tripled. i think even more important is that at the same time the average monthly import of russian pipeline gas to the european union is now sharply declining by 33% compared to last year last year june, this year june, minus 33%. so we're making progress and that's exactly what we wanted to have. but we know that all of this will only work, the diversifying away from russia and having energy security of supply, if we speed up the transition to renewable energies. this is the key remedy. now, i observe that some say that in the new security environment after russia's aggression, we have to slow down the green transition. and this transition would come at the cost of basic security, they say. just the opposite is true. if we all do nothing but compete around fossil fuels, the limited fossil fuels that are out there, the prices will just go through the roof and we will fill putin's war chest. and that's exactly what we don't want to have. and therefore the best, the cleanest and safest way out of the dependence on fossil fuels is renewables. so, the new security environment is the best argument to speed up deployment of renewables. renewables are home grown, they give us independence from russian fossil fuels, they are more cost efficient and they are cleaner than anything else. so, let's take the opportunity and really invest in the renewable energy. honourable members, we also need to prepare now for further disruption of gas supply and even a complete cut off of russian gas supply. just to give you a figure, today, 12 member states are already directly affected by partial or total cutoff of russian gas. so it is obvious putin continues to use energy as a weapon. and this is why the commission is working on a european emergency plan. we will present this plan and the necessary instruments by midjuly. member states have their national contingency plans, that's good. but i think we need european cooperation and we need common action as 27. we need to make sure that in case of full disruption, the gas flows towards where it's needed most. we have to provide for european solidarity. and we need to protect the single market as well as industry supply chains. and here, honourable members, we should never forget the bitter, bitter lesson that we learned at the beginning of the pandemic. you remember it very well. at the beginning, we had egoism and protectionism, closed borders, export bans, you name it, that led only to disunity and fragmentation. but with european unity and coordination we then, after a while, had the key remedies to overcome this brutal pandemic. so let's keep these principles in mind. as always, let's hope for the best but prepare for the worst. i know this is hard work ahead of us, but like in the last few months, unity will be key to our success. ladies and gentlemen, you know as well as i do that in all the member states the state of the economy is becoming more and more uneasy. the covid crisis has increased deficits. then, just as the economy was beginning to recover, russia launched a ferocious attack against ukraine. this has accelerated inflation in all the energy-related sectors. at the same time, investments remain essential for the successful transition to a green, digital and resilient economy. this is why we must rethink. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one. we need to rethink how we create growth in a very different political and economic environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we need rules which reconcile our higher investment needs with the need for a sound budgetary policy. in fact, budgetary viability and growth go together. we present the results of our evaluation of economic governance under the czech presidency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. you have already said that these are two major assets in times of crisis. they are the main engines of our growth. we should rethink the way we reinforce them. the new free trade agreement we concluded last week with new zealand is an excellent example. this new agreement will contribute to a 30% increase in trade between the european union and new zealand. in addition, for the first time, the content of the engagement is unprecedented in social and climate matters. this shows that when democracies are strong, they achieve results for the good of their people. honourable members, in his aachen speech václav havel spoke about europe as a task. the task of europe today, he said, is to rediscover its conscience and its responsibility. it is beautiful. and this is exactly what we will continue to do with the support of our czech friends. dear petr, i have to ask you... i've seen it with my own eyes and heard what you reported to me when i visited czechia last week. and thank you again for this wonderful reception. the czech people opened their hearts and their homes to refugees. they do miracles to thousands and thousands of ukrainian refugees hosted in the czech republic. and this is in the havel sense europe with a conscience and taking its responsibility. this is europe at its best. i would like to thank you for your support. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, dear commission president. (the debate was suspended)
before we go to the round of political groups i have one quick announcement in relation to the decisions by the imco and econ committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1), announced at the opening of the session of 4 july. i have received no request for a vote in parliament by members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold. the committees may therefore start the negotiations.
we now resume our debate on the programme of activities of the czech presidency.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i wish to welcome prime minister petr fiala and to thank you, mr fiala, so much for the presentation of the ideas of the czech presidency. the czech presidency comes at the right moment. thanks to you europe is, first of all, back in the czech government. as soon as you took office you appointed a minister for european affairs, sitting there next to you, mr bek. for the first time after 12 years there is again a minister for europe in the czech government, and that’s why i am convinced that the czech presidency will be a pro-european one, a good one and a successful one. and i also want to underline that this is a new government after the government of babiš. it is also a symbol of the rule of law and also a symbol of separation between business interests and public interests. the czech presidency comes at the right moment. ursula von der leyen reminded us already about the prague spring. i want to add their resistance against nazi germany and the peaceful revolution in 1989. the czech republic is the symbol that brave and determined fighting for democracy and freedom will be rewarded in the end. the czech presidency is the best suited to lead europe when it comes to supporting ukraine in its fight for democracy, freedom and justice. european democracy and freedom are breathing czech spirit. the czech presidency comes at the right moment when it comes to the future of europe now. we can only survive in confrontation with putin if europe is the lighthouse of free democracies in the world. that is why we finally need a convention to renew the idea of european democracy. we must take the people of europe seriously when it is about european decision-making. the conference on the future of europe made it clear we need to strengthen our democracy, and you spoke about this. the czech presidency wants to do so. we must introduce and live the lead candidate principle, that people have a say about who is in the future the commission president. we must strengthen both the european parliament and the national parliaments. we need a re-parliamentarisation of the european union. the european parliament should have full rights on legislative initiatives and decide on the eu budget together with the national parliaments. and that is why the czech republic can play there a key role, after the french presidency had some leftovers for you to continue your work. and let me be also clear on this political union idea. i think it’s good that we talk to each other, no doubt about this. but for me, it’s not yet clear what is the key idea behind this political union and i have also to say that this was not part of the debate here in strasbourg in the future of europe conference. so it’s a new idea. i think we should base our future ideas on the process of listening to people. and finally, the czech presidency comes at the right moment when we have to focus on the most urgent tasks, and that is about inflation and especially energy security. as a first step, i support draghi’s initiative to impose a temporary cap on the price that the european union countries are willing to pay for russian natural gas. let us use our european economic power against putin’s blackmail attempts. when the crisis will probably arrive in winter and nord stream 1will probably not continue to deliver gas, we need a binding, a legally binding mechanism of solidarity in the european union. and i think it is also needed, mr prime minister, to go for an extraordinary european council for this. we need decisions. we have to prepare for the crisis and not wait for the crisis. the czech presidency comes at the right moment. you can fully count on your ppe group to deliver. europe needs your leadership, europe needs a strong czech presidency.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. now, with the war in ukraine and its aftermath, it seems even covid-19 is a thing of the past. but these are crises that overlap and force us to look deeper. the two years that remain before the legislature are going to be two decisive years. we know that instability is going to continue, and that's why it's so important to stay on course for the big transformations, for the green transformation, for the digital transformation and also to respond to unexpected turbulence. we support the priorities of your programme, prime minister fiala: strengthening freedom, security and common prosperity, managing the refugee crisis, the post-war recovery of ukraine, as well as energy security and containing inflation. but we cannot do that without taking into account the impact on people, that is, social policies. and that's what our group is concerned about. we missed more references to the social question in your work programme yesterday, but i must also congratulate you today on your acceptance of our request to organise a social summit to update the social policies we agreed on a year ago in porto. that's excellent news, prime minister, because we must protect ourselves from external threats, but also from internal ones. we must protect ourselves against injustice, inequality and poverty, because these will also be threats to the european project. that's why it's so important to talk about these social consequences. another important issue is gender equality, because we have made a lot of progress in this area, but there is still a lot to be done, for example, to achieve equal pay. it would also be a good thing if your government ratified the istanbul convention, because it is the main legal instrument we have to fight against gender-based violence. the rule of law is also fundamental and i hope that your presidency will make a difference in this respect. prague is the geographical heart of europe, the symbol of a people's struggle for its rights, for freedom and for democracy. i hope that you will intervene in this connection in the visegrad group. you know very well that values are not negotiable and that the european union cannot renounce the defence of the rule of law. under the czech presidency, the council can finally organise serious and effective hearings on the deterioration of the rule of law in hungary and poland, following the procedures of article 7. unanimity is not necessary for this, only political will. authoritarian populism is a threat to europe and all its countries. not all visegrad governments are the same, we are aware. prague has the opportunity to lead a new push for freedom, a new democratic spring. in this democratic effort we must listen more to the citizens. that is why i also miss a mention in your programme for the conference on the future of europe. citizens expect much more and we must undertake the necessary reforms, and that means overcoming unanimity in important areas. finally, the challenge of migration must be faced head on. we can't let any more time pass. europe has the opportunity to give substance to the word solidarity. mr president, you have chosen a very appropriate motto for your presidency: 'europe as a task, europe as a mission'. that phrase, which václav havel uttered in his speech for the charlemagne prize, continues to reflect what we are: a project of solidarity, a project for the future, a project that we all build together. the socialist group will be working hand in hand with you on that future of peace, prosperity and freedom during these months.
for the renew group. madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission, mr prime minister, the czech presidency is beginning at a very difficult time: the ongoing war in ukraine, the uncertainty of its future development and the deteriorating economic and social situation in europe. i personally welcome the steps which the czech republic, the czech presidency, intends to take in relation to ukraine. supporting ukraine is crucial for the security of all of europe. but the centre of the czech presidency must be the citizen, and the citizen should be at the forefront, not at the back, as you said in your speech. so, together with our support for ukraine, you need to urgently address how to ensure that there is enough energy for households and businesses this winter, how to unblock ukrainian ports to prevent a global food crisis and the subsequent waves of migration, how to keep europe competitive in the face of drastically rising energy prices and ever-increasing inflation. the czech republic must be a crisis manager. a crisis manager with a crisis plan for europe. mr prime minister, if you ask in brussels about the first czech presidency in 2009, in which i personally took an active part, most people will remember the distinctive czech humour that our colleagues in the european parliament know. but the world press then evaluated this presidency as having had great officials, great diplomats and bad politicians. you now have the opportunity to improve this image of the czech republic, and it would be a shame if you wasted this opportunity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, madam commission president, vice-president, thank you. prime minister, you are taking over the presidency of the council in challenging times. this is beyond doubt. one of these big challenges is our dependency on fossil fuels. you mentioned that environmentally, but also geopolitically, we are paying a high price for this dependency. turning towards a green economy is key to tackling our climate challenges, but also to get rid of very inconvenient dependencies, as we see these days, and this should be the council’s presidency goal, too. we have to be not only ambitious, but also consistent. and this is clearly not the case with the taxonomy proposal. this proposal does not live up to our ambitions, but also does not live up to the consistency of our policies for climate neutrality. that’s why i hope later today this parliament will vote down this proposal. prime minister, there are reforms like energy transition that we can undertake under the current treaties, but others demand treaty changes. in that sense, i must say that i regret that the czech government is one of the signatories rejecting the possibility to change the treaties. as you know very well, this parliament is indeed pushing for a convention to amend the treaties and i hope that the council will activate article 48, the sooner the better. our demand is also in line with the conference on the future of europe conclusions, which, amongst other things, asked for putting an end to national vetoes. and i hope you will help implementing what european citizens asked us to do. and finally, i welcome that the programme of your presidency includes efforts towards advancing negotiations on the pact on migration and asylum. it is high time to close this deal. we urgently need a migration and asylum policy that strikes a fair balance between our demographic and economic needs, the need for solidarity between member states, and the need to put fundamental rights at the forefront. i ask you, prime minister, to work in this direction.
in the name of the id group. madam president, mrs von der leyen, mr vice-president, mr fiala, as i have already said to you in the meeting we had a few weeks ago, which was a useful exchange of views, good luck. i wish you and your country the very best of luck in taking over the presidency of the council at one of the most critical moments facing this continent, this union, both from the external point of view, the question of the war in ukraine, and from the internal point of view. you and your colleagues have listed the problems which citizens and businesses in the union are facing today with great difficulty, and we share the priorities of this ambitious programme which the czech presidency has put on the table over the last six months, but now we need facts, the citizens are asking us for concrete facts and concrete decisions. we have spent too much time in these months in a situation where it is certainly difficult to find the right decisions and there are still two fundamental questions that have not been answered. on the war, we know that until we can put an end to this war, inflation will not fall, energy prices will not fall, we will not be able to save the ukrainian people and we will not be able to save the european peoples, our countries, our citizens. and we need to act on that. the ukrainian people and the european people are asking us to protect and defend ukraine with the ultimate aim of achieving peace as soon as possible. on the economic front, as i have said many times here, the european institutions are lacking. today we need strong, exceptional measures, because the situation is dramatic. energy bills have risen fivefold, tenfold, businesses can't make ends meet, budgets are not making ends meet, the outlook for our economy is gray as it has not been for a long time. the proposals are on the table, we need to act and now. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the longer we wait to put a cap on the price of gas, the harder it will be to counter russia and the more room we will give russia to blackmail us on gas supplies. and i would add another proposal, which was made very cleverly by the polish prime minister: we also temporarily cap the price of co2, the ets scheme. we need strong decisions. i would like to conclude by saying that i do not agree that what the european institutions are doing on the green transition is not affecting the price of energy and is not part of the problem. and i am not saying this, but the european central bank is saying it, and it has officially confirmed to us on several occasions in recent months that the pressure on inflation is also due to some of the policies we are pursuing. we need pragmatism, we need concrete decisions, because otherwise we cannot talk about europe, otherwise we will not be able to make our citizens and our businesses realise the value of being together.
for the ecr group. madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, mr prime minister fialo, may i thank you very much for presenting the plans of the czech presidency. i think they are absolutely relevant to the problems that europe is facing now. obviously, there are two key issues, and both are related to ukraine. the first will be the rebuilding of ukraine, because a functioning and prosperous country on the eastern border of the european union is important not only for the ukrainians themselves, but also for us, the members of the european union. the approval of candidate status for ukraine is a good first step, but concrete plans for recovery need to be put in place. the promises of aid we hear from a number of countries must be translated into bank accounts from which we will pay for the reconstruction. ukraine is also linked to the current energy crisis facing europe. what is happening is what this house has been warning us about for years. how many times have we warned here about the risks of nord stream 2? now we must work urgently to have enough affordable energy for our citizens. we have to stop lying to ourselves that we can still choose which resources we like and which we think are not green. our main task must be to mobilise all available resources, at least in the short to medium term. this is already happening in germany, for example, which is expanding its production of electricity from dirty coal-fired power stations. it has the potential to use carbon-free nuclear energy. we have to use the core. we need to invest in its development, in new types of modular reactors. we're voting on the taxonomy objection this afternoon. this vote will show who is interested in the citizens he represents. who cares if citizens have heating, lighting or how to charge their electric car. because without nuclear and gas, we can't provide enough energy.
for the left. madam president, mr. prime minister, it's not often that i agree with something that the czech right-wing government of peter fiala has prepared. i may surprise many, but i think four of the five priorities of our government for the presidency are right. the problem, however, lies elsewhere the reality is often harder than the czech government's lofty words. he's much tougher and more ruthless. so much so that the czech government is going to quietly assist brussels in abolishing the veto power for member states. the government then orders energy security to czech citizens by forcing them to buy cheap energy produced in the czech republic with a multiple surcharge. czech citizens with one-third of the wages of their western neighbors are already forced to pay many times higher prices than they do. he sees cybersecurity as a way to shut down inconvenient websites without a court order. and he's strengthening the economy by privatizing the last remnants of state and national enterprises. and the price increase is twice as high as in the rest of the european union. the programme for hard-hit families has none and has left czech businesses in the lurch, even in connection with the ban on the sale of combustion engines. and the democratic institutions in government, formed by parties that are embroiled in mega-corruption scandals, perhaps it's not even worth talking about. i would like the eu council and all of us to see the czech government treat it as it treats its own citizens. the czech republic needs - and especially when it holds the presidency of the council of the european union - a government that puts the interests of its citizens first and not just full of excuses for why it can't do something when we see it can be done elsewhere. not by their words, but by their deeds. good luck not only to the czech government, but to all of us.
mr prime minister! madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the czech presidency takes over the leadership of the union at a moment when we are facing economic and security challenges unprecedented in decades. in this situation, we can't afford to have any division, any unnecessary internal debate. we expect the czech presidency to show some common sense and to focus on the real problems. member states now need all the means and resources. please therefore help ensure that all member states, including hungary and poland, have access to their eu funds as soon as possible. not only because the eastern member states are facing the biggest refugee crisis in the history of the union, and they are hosting refugees, but also because we are facing economic recession and an energy crisis. the czech presidency's emphasis on security of supply is encouraging, as energy supply is not an ideological but a physical issue. is there a power source or not? and the people of europe want to wash, bathe, heat and travel, and the leaders of the union must represent the interests of the people of europe. thank you very much, and good luck.
the president-in-office of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your speeches, for your questions, for your interest in the czech presidency. and of course, thank you for all the words of support that have been heard here. when i presented these subjects, i said that we had selected the key issues within the presidency. the five priorities naturally cover a wider range of issues, some of which are already part of the european union's long-term agenda. the czech presidency is working on them, of course, and will continue to do so. there is a document on the plans for the various policies of the council formations, to which i also refer you, which is freely available on the website of our presidency, and you will see that most of the topics that you may have missed in those basic priorities can be found there, and i may not have dealt with them here for time reasons. so, thank you again for the input, and now i'm going to try to answer some of the specific questions that have been raised here. i think it is clear from those speeches that we are all aware, across the political spectrum, of the enormous challenges, the risks facing the european union, and in most of your speeches, you have called for clear steps, joint steps, decisive action by the european union, to think about the citizens who are exposed to the consequences of the war in ukraine, and all the similar issues that i have spoken about in my speech and that the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, has also spoken about. i was afraid that this unity was such that i might even get praise from the communists, but it turned out that it wasn't, and that reassured me that we were on the right track. now to the specific questions: the conference on the future of europe, which was mentioned by president weber, and by some of the other speakers. the czech republic is of course fully prepared to engage in the implementation of the outcomes of the conference on the future of europe. we are also aware of the european parliament's interest in convening a convention and subsequently in initiating the procedure for amending the treaties. but i have to say, this is a long-distance run. and here i would like to correct a statement made by chairman solé that was made here. we are not opposed to a debate on the amendment of the treaties. we are simply convinced that this is a long-term process and that the debates must take place first, so that we can be prepared for such a thorough discussion on the amendment of the treaties. well, it takes time. as the feasibility analysis of the outcomes of the conference on the future of europe by the general secretariat of the council shows, the european commission's communications make it clear that even within the current legal framework it will be possible to implement a large number of proposals relatively quickly and we can focus on this, but convening a convention and initiating the procedure for amending the treaties is not a quick process and could, on the contrary, block the implementation of the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe for a long time. we are not avoiding institutional questions, but we want to proceed sensibly in this area as well, in order to achieve the changes that the citizens of the european union countries really want. with more than one speaker, or mrs garcia and a few others, you have mentioned the importance of the social dimension, the social policy, the social dimension of the presidency. i have to say that many of these priorities reflect a social dimension. if we are talking about affordable energy, affordable energy, energy at a reasonable price, energy security for europe, there is a social dimension. if we talk about the resilience of the european economy, about being able to ensure that we are not so dependent on raw materials, that we are not so dependent on certain products, on certain products that we then work with in european countries, then there is also a social dimension. we are talking about employment and many other things that directly affect the lives of our citizens. so already in our priorities we are addressing the social dimension and the social problems we face and can face. so it is not a specific area of the czech presidency's considerations, it is an integral part of the agendas i am talking about here. but we're also talking about the need for a great balance between environmental action, social peace, economic development. that's the big task of the next few days. and here we have to respond to the challenges that we face. because if we put too much emphasis on one of these aspects and we don't balance it with the others and we prioritize it at the expense of the others, then we can expect to see our social peace disrupted. and that's what no one wants. but to be specific, because the questions on this social issue have been raised, i want to say that we are preparing several conferences on this topic in prague. we are preparing a conference on energy poverty on 24 october, a conference on the integration of disabled people into the labour market on 20 and 21 september, and a conference on the eradication of child poverty at the beginning of july, so we are also dealing with these issues. and here i have shown you examples of the concrete actions that we are preparing under the czech presidency to address these issues. i agree that strong and concrete action is needed in areas like energy, the economy and other things. but i wouldn't be so skeptical that we don't do them and that we're not capable of them. maybe there was a mention of the eu ets, there was a mention of emission allowances. yes, this is a long-term problem. many countries are satisfied with the way the emissions allowance system works, many countries are not satisfied with it, and it is even causing them great problems. the czech republic is one of them, but recently we have managed to achieve a certain shift, a certain compromise, in that emission allowances will be released to the market so that the price does not increase by leaps and bounds. and i think this is an example of how we can very quickly, if we really try, reach a reasonable compromise that can ultimately be supported by most of the stakeholders involved. for me, one of the biggest, and if i can even put it that way, one of the best things about this huge tragedy that is the war in ukraine and all the consequences that we are facing, one of the biggest and best things that has happened to us in the european union - i see it in the european council meetings - is that we have learned to listen to each other. and the countries of western europe and southern europe are listening to each other more, the experience of the countries of central and eastern europe with russian imperialism and with these dangers and threats that we see, and we are learning in turn to listen to the countries of southern europe that are worried about the stabilization in north africa and things like that. and this listening, this taking ourselves more seriously, that's incredibly important. but we also have to be serious about energy policy. and i'm really asking you to do this. there are countries in europe that don't have an energy mix at all that is built to be dependent on russia for anything. there are countries that have extremely high dependency, in the case of the czech republic, for example, 97% in the gas sector. getting rid of this addiction is our priority, but it just takes a few months or a few years, and to do that, we need the solidarity of others. there are countries that can rely on renewable energy, have done a lot of work on it, and are pretty far behind in this area today. there are countries that have not done much, and we can say that this is their fault, but they also do not have the same natural conditions as other countries, and therefore their energy mix needs must be taken into account. and i'm saying again here that countries like the czech republic and some others, unless they have the ability to finance nuclear energy as a clean source, they're not going to be able to meet climate goals, they're not going to be able to get rid of their dependence on russia quickly. and that, please, also bear in mind, that the initial conditions, the natural conditions, a lot of things just make us different and we have to try to find a way to meet those common goals and respect the different paths that lead to that. so please, let's keep that in mind. we all agree on these goals, but how do we achieve them, especially in this extremely difficult situation? and we can only achieve that if we create a certain amount of freedom and liberty for these countries to make decisions and for a certain different speed to really accomplish what we want. if we don't act rationally, the results will not be good. and the last remark that i cannot forgive myself for was that in my speech, the human being or citizen was the last thing mentioned. from a czech colleague. it's not true. he was on the first. my entire speech is about the citizens of european countries. we put them first in all our priorities, and if we can't handle the refugee crisis well, if we can't help ukraine stop russian aggression, who's going to pay? our people! when you mentioned food and blocking food routes, you immediately said the word ukraine. yes, the question of ukraine is so closely connected, the question of our support for ukraine. the question of ending the war as soon as possible, of doing everything to make sure that the war ends in victory for ukraine, is so closely connected with practically every issue we're talking about here. and you said so yourself, mrs. charanz, by the way. when we talk about energy, energy self-sufficiency, the drive to have energy at affordable prices, who do we have in mind? citizens, citizens of the european union. the resilience of the european economy has a social dimension. strengthening europe's defence capability has a social dimension. the resilience of democratic institutions, of course, also, who else makes up those democratic institutions but citizens. so we have the citizen and his well-being at heart in virtually all the priorities that we have presented here. so, thank you again for all the questions and suggestions, and i hope i've answered most of them.
madam president, madam commissioner, mr prime minister, i am very pleased to welcome you here today. the czech presidency's priorities reflect the reality. if we want to preserve our freedom and security for future generations, we have no choice. assist ukraine in its struggle for freedom and independence by all available means, including assistance to ukrainian refugees. it's our only option. we cannot have any other priority than independence from russian energy sources and strengthening european security capacities. we must promote social cohesion and food security and not lose the confidence of the citizens. i appreciate you taking on these challenges. and i want to thank you, mr prime minister, personally for your example of solidarity with ukraine, and i want to thank the citizens of the czech republic for being an example for europe today of effective assistance and integration of refugees. the european union has set itself ambitious targets to combat climate change. not because we're naive to think that we're going to save the world on our own, but because we want to be an example for those who can actually do it with us, like china, the united states, brazil and others. here, the czech presidency will have a very important role in the negotiations on legislation and i wanted to ask you on this subject whether you are ready to complete the negotiations on the legislative package and whether you believe it is possible to achieve the objectives for climate neutrality and at the same time to get rid of dependence on russian resources. mr. prime minister, you've answered that question, so i don't have to ask it right now. i think everyone heard your clear statement. let me just wish the prime minister and the presidency a lot of strength in closing. i think europe needs concrete action now more than ever. europe is our common task and i thank you for leading europe with this idea.
the presidency's motto is 'europe as a task', and we are facing a major challenge in difficult times. the european union will face difficult challenges. we're facing the war in ukraine, the energy crisis, inflation, the pandemic. and the czech republic emphasizes cooperation and unity in solving these problems. we should also be more or less united in tackling social issues, protecting vulnerable groups, equal opportunities and fighting violence. in addition to the crises you mentioned in your speech, i would like to draw attention to points that are not mentioned in the priorities of the czech presidency. we're in the middle of a mental health crisis. in addition to the obvious impact on people's lives, these problems carry a cost of more than 4% of gdp. and challenging times call for an emphasis on protecting mental health and for a european strategy to protect it. please, make a bet. in fact, inaction can cost us up to 80,000 lives a year, which we lose in the european union due to mental health problems. the second thing i'd like to mention is pay transparency. women are still earning less in the european union, and it is therefore a big challenge for the czech presidency to manage the trilogues on the pay transparency directive. believe me, as a social democrat faction, we'll keep our fingers crossed for you, but we'll also keep an eye on you so that you don't overlook social issues.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear prime minister, dear minister, dear colleagues, the czech government and the czech permanent representation to the union worked tirelessly to get ready for the presidency of the council. and i would like to thank them for that. it is only natural that the presidency’s priorities react to the russian aggression in ukraine and its implications. therefore, i believe that the presidency’s priorities are well identified. at the same time, other urgent problems such as the climate emergency did not magically disappear. they are also reflected in the presidency’s priorities and i am really happy that the czech government, under your leadership, prime minister, supports fit for 55 and agrees that only zero- emission cars can be sold on the european market from 2035. and here comes my main question, prime minister. what is your measurable goal for fit for 55? how many legislative acts do you plan to finalise in the negotiations by the end of the presidency? and please let me finish by reiterating how important the presidency’s programme is. it is an important signal to europe that czechia, after years at the periphery, is back at the core of the european project, that czechia is again dedicated to a strong, safe and united europe. and last but not least, it is also a very important signal to us in this parliament that voices of members of the european parliament, from your political group, who are, as a matter of fact, not overly present in this debate, are not the voice of the czech government. thank you. and i wish you and us great success in our presidency.
madam president, commissioner, minister, russian tactics to get into european democratic institutions are not very secret, nor are they very elaborate, if we look at the evidence we already have. last monday, ms le pen and mr salvini, together with other lesser-known russian finest members, were roaming this house and advocating for russia’s interests. of course, this practice is ongoing, even after russia started the war in ukraine. in our special committee on foreign interference, we outlined what should be done: follow the money, overhaul member states’ election finance laws, expose and deport known russian agents. our reporters, investigative journalists, off-scene specialists and our police and intelligence services must also get all necessary means and support to continue to find and expose russia’s attempts to poison our democratic systems. the best defence against russia’s tactics is transparency and the efforts of our collective european civil society. a také v češtině, protože nevím, zda umí anglicky, si dovolím se obrátit na přítomného slovenského poslance. spousta zemí má extremisty, zjevně spousta zemí má i hlupáky. jenom jedna ale proti evropě vede válku. a ukrajina to opravdu není.
for the ecr group. mr president, let me first of all thank all the firefighters, soldiers and volunteers who have been involved in fighting fires during the summer, including the big fire that has also affected the czech republic. much of europe has been hit by drought and fires this year. it is true that even today, in the early autumn, there are still parts of europe where it is very dry. but that does not mean, as the title of today's debate suggests, that we should increase our efforts to combat climate change. we must first of all adapt to climate change, working with the measures we have already taken, but certainly not raising the already high ambitions, the outcome of which is completely unclear, even in the light of current events with rising energy and food prices. our ambition must match our ability to meet the basic needs of our citizens and, above all, to avoid fostering negative moods in society that could lead to a shift away from democracy. a few specific measures. we need to support the civil protection mechanism to have sufficient capacity, for example, to fight forest fires. we need to put water back into the landscape, restore ponds and be efficient in land use. but we must not tie farmers' hands with unreasonable regulations and we must give them room to adapt to changing conditions, perhaps by allowing them to grow new varieties with greater tolerance to drought or moisture, or by allowing crops to be bred with new breeding methods. these measures will enable us to cope with the fluctuations of the weather, while ensuring food security and environmental measures.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen. i just read this, today’s leaked commission proposal. it’s a late step in the right direction, but it does not fix the whole problem of gas prices. and mostly it deals only with the consequences, not with the root causes of the problem. and the root causes are in the negative synergy of putin’s war, of the german energiewende, which produce this instabilities, and the radicality of the eu climate law. simply speaking, we are trying to fight more wars, full-scale wars at once. this is something what even the united states, much more powerful than us, admits is beyond their strength. so this is our mistake. we should be selective, we should fight putin first in those circumstances, and then we can go back to climate if we would have some partner in the global world.
the commission has already done so. energy prices down now! ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal for a profit limit is good for electricity prices, first of all, if it is implemented uniformly in europe. but the talks must take place now. people and businesses need lower energy prices now, not after two years of the usual european legislative procedure. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy market, such as the introduction of a reserve instrument now, but also a fundamental reform of pricing not stock market price caps may determine the energy price in the future. it must be the average prices of the different types of energy. there must be a balancing mechanism to anticipate price increases and prevent energy crises. it's all good. i call on the commission to make a proposal now for the new price fixing. please no announcements, no consultations, no leaks, no first proposal and all the things that will be discussed in the parliamentary procedure, but now we must also talk about the reform of the energy market design.
president, commissioner, it is time to act. more and more people are getting their mouths watering. if we want to prevent thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people from falling into poverty because of high energy bills, we must take control of the energy market now. so limit the energy bill for ordinary households, for heating a home is not an unnecessary luxury. but also make sure people can keep working. so please, tomorrow also present the renewal of the sure programme as the european parttime unemployment law. we can't afford not to take action. we don't have time to waste, because there are too many people waiting for a headwind. so i really hope for action from the european commission.
madam president, madam commissioner, minister bek many thanks for your inspiring speeches. however, there are four elements that i have been missing. so first, introduce a cap on the price of the allowances, ideally below eur 40. secondly, for the gas imported to europe, try to distinguish between the lng and the pipeline gas in order to reduce the risk that the ships will sail somewhere outside europe and it could cause the reverse effect. third, put forward a kind of a package for energy-intensive industries and also for industries using natural gas as an input commodity for production, for example, a chemical industry or a fertilizer industry. and of course, i am not talking only about smes. and the fourth point, i will manage it in five seconds. you mentioned a lot on renewables and energy efficiency. great idea, but in the long term, also, please open your heart to the nuclear and the fusion, which is having enormous progress in the past times.
madam speaker, 200,000 is the number of ukrainian children who were forcibly taken to russia, as declared by ukrainian president volodymyr zelenskyy in early june. living in areas of military conflict carries not only the risk of death by gunfire but also other risks. hundreds of thousands of children worldwide die each year from the indirect effects of war, such as malnutrition, disease, lack of medical care or hygiene. children fleeing war are at increased risk of violence, abuse and exploitation and are victims of trafficking in human beings, particularly when moving across borders. and as we can see with the putin government, there's also the risk of illegal adoptions. we must not lose sight of this. we need to prevent illegal adoptions through a system that helps better monitor, especially, children without parents when they cross borders. and we must ensure that justice is done to the victims, that the perpetrators of these crimes are investigated. let's support the resolution tomorrow and help those who really need it.
madam president, do we find it democratic that, for instance, the pirate party, active in 14 member states and counting four meps in this chamber, is not permitted to register as a european political party? i don’t. genuine and inclusive citizen representation can only be achieved once we lower the threshold for registration. however this report does not mention it. do you find it transparent enough if only the identity of bigger donors which donate over eur 3 000 is to be published? i don’t. accountability is only achievable through full transparency. the eu should follow the standard of mandatory transparent bank accounts for all political parties. it doesn’t hurt, i know it by experience. and do we find it safe that foreign entities are allowed to donate money to these non—transparent accounts of european political parties? i don’t. we are in a time of war, and donations coming from foreign powers which seek to destabilise our democracies should be seen, and stopped. i and my pirate colleagues will thus not vote in favour of this report.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you once again for this important debate and also for helping us to raise public awareness about the importance of the ocean. we face a ‘now or never’ moment when it comes to addressing the triple crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution. ambitious outcomes of the cop27 in sharm el-sheikh and the united nations biodiversity conference in montreal are crucial, and the oceans play a key role in both. let me say a few words on some of the issues you raised during this debate. we agree that we need to protect the high seas and ensure that future activities in these sensitive areas are solidly based on the science. that’s why the eu is working hard to ensure that a strong and ambitious treaty on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction is agreed. we intend to continue to take a lead role in the negotiations, leading to an ambitious, fair and equitable agreement. we will aim to maintain the political momentum through the high ambition coalition on biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction. the commission also fully agrees that marine minerals in the area cannot be exploited until the effects of deep-sea mining on the marine environment, biodiversity and human activities have been sufficiently researched, the risks are understood, and technologies and operational practices are able to demonstrate that the environment is not seriously harmed, in line with the precautionary approach and the ecosystem-based approach. this has been clearly confirmed in our international ocean governance agenda. with regard to the implementing act on vulnerable marine ecosystems, resulting in the closure of some areas for bottom fishing, we have always said that once the new scientific advice was available, we would carefully assess it and consider whether a revision of the implementing act was necessary. i understand that this issue is expected to be discussed in the fisheries committee on 10 october, where the commission will have the opportunity to explain its position in more detail. we are looking forward to the final resolution, which you will adopt later this week, and to working together with you on setting the course for a sustainable blue planet.
the next item is the report by clara aguilera, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on striving for a sustainable and competitive eu aquaculture: the way forward (2021/2189(ini)) (a9-0215/2022).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner valean, replacing commissioner sinkevicius, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the good cooperation of the alternative rapporteurs from all the political groups, because it has not been easy at times, but with this report we have reached a good agreement, which i think is balanced. ladies and gentlemen, despite the progress of the aquaculture sector and the european union funding, our aquaculture sector is far from reaching its full growth potential and meeting the growing demand for seafood products. the union imports more than 70% of the seafood it consumes and i have to tell you something, ladies and gentlemen: i would like this seafood to come from member states of the european union, where we apply the highest food safety and quality standards in the world. to achieve this, we call on the member states and the commission to tackle decisively the main problems facing the sector, which are often discussed but not sufficiently addressed. we propose solutions in both the short and medium term, including measures on organic aquaculture, but equally on other aquaculture models which are equally sustainable and which should play a key role in the sector's expected growth in line with the transition to a more sustainable food system in europe. firstly, i would like to stress the need for a predictable, streamlined and business-friendly legal framework for europe, which takes account of the three pillars of sustainability: economic, social and environmental. this is the only way to develop the growth potential of the sector and is essential to be able to provide sustainable and quality food, reduce our dependence on imported aquatic food and create more jobs in the european union, especially in coastal regions. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the aquaculture sector can contribute to providing ecosystem services to society, and that the rearing of algae, for example, or other aquatic products, can contribute to the decarbonisation of the european union's economy and to mitigating the fight against climate change. freshwater aquaculture is very important in many rural regions of europe. i would therefore also like to stress that in this respect we should do more work on traceability, eco-business models and fish welfare, which are also important factors. multiannual national strategic plans should take into account the main obstacles to the development of the sector's potential and recognise the need to allocate more space to aquaculture. coordination with national, regional and local public administrations with competence in aquaculture development is very necessary to rationalise national legislation and to develop guidelines in the legal framework which are useful to the sector. another problem i would like to draw attention to is the availability of sustainable feed ingredients for aquaculture in the union. this is one of the key elements in which the sector can fully contribute to the objectives of the green deal. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that there are many elements. one of them is the situation that the cormorants are creating. the only thing i can say to you about this - and the report says it well - is that this is a problem and we must be courageous. we must bring this up in debate and find solutions. i hope there will be broad support for the report.
member of the commission. – madam president, firstly, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms aguilera, as well as the shadow rapporteurs for this very important report, which the commission welcomes. following the council conclusions of july this year and the opinions of the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions of last year, your report rounds up the broad support of the major eu institutions and bodies for the commission’s strategic guidelines for a sustainable and competitive eu aquaculture of may 2021. the commission fully agrees with your report. aquaculture needs to have the prominent place it deserves as it is a crucial part of the sustainable blue economy, and it contributes to the objectives of the european green deal. we have also carefully taken note of the concerns expressed in your report when it comes to the current state of play of aquaculture in europe. in fact, most of these concerns are actually already addressed in the commission’s strategic guidelines. i would like to focus on two points that were highlighted in your report, namely access to space for marine aquaculture and administrative procedures. the commission is now working to establish guiding documents, as both the question of appropriate access and efficient procedures are key enablers for our aquaculture to grow. we agree that further efforts are necessary in both areas, which is why we have prioritised these actions. the commission is also managing and planning actions in areas you highlighted in your report, such as sustainable feed, animal welfare, and environmental performance, and we propose to use horizon europe funding to promote research and innovation for aquaculture. on the topic of funding, i can confirm that the commission regularly monitors strategic guidelines for sustainable and competitive aquaculture. these are duly considered in national programmes under the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund. similarly, we insist that these guidelines are taken into account for the multiannual national strategies for aquaculture. member states seem to have taken this strategy on board, for both the funding and strategy programmes, which we very much welcome, as it demonstrates our common vision when it comes to aquaculture. we also know that the challenge for fisheries and aquaculture coming from increasing cormorant numbers in some areas of the eu is an important concern highlighted in your report. let me recall that member states can implement preventive measures to avoid or limit the damage caused by cormorants, including by using the derogations under the birds directive, and actions to address conflicts with cormorants can also be funded by the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund, and this includes prevention and compensation measures. taking into account the existing instruments and tools, and that we already allow member states to take preventive measures, the commission is currently not planning to change the legal protection regime for cormorants. however, we are certainly ready to further support member states and stakeholders with the existing eu cormorant platform. furthermore, the mapping of good practices on the management of predators is part of the future guidance document on environmental performance, which the commission will develop as part of the implementation of our strategic guidelines. regarding organic aquaculture, to which you paid special attention in your report, we have encouraged member states to include an increase in organic aquaculture production in the revision of their national aquaculture strategies and in their programmes under the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund. this increased support for organic aquaculture by member states will contribute to meeting the farm to fork strategy targets and, together with the member states, we are working on identifying specific obstacles to growth of eu organic agriculture, which would also be a response to one of the calls in your report. finally, i’m confident that our combined efforts and support for sustainable and competitive aquaculture in the eu will help this important economic sector to realise its potential in the years to come, to the benefit of us all.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, i would first like to thank the excellent work done by mrs clara aguilera and her shadow rapporteurs, both for their technical competence and rigor and for their clear ability to strike the right balance between the three pillars of sustainability for the aquaculture sector. competitive and resilient aquaculture is key to achieving europe's strategic food autonomy objectives. in parallel with the supply of healthy food with high nutritional value and a low ecological footprint, this is a sector which, if well targeted, can help enormously in protecting the environment and biodiversity, reducing pressure on marine resources and supporting the effective restoration of fish stocks. it is therefore important to strengthen support to enable the sector, in partnership with science and technological innovation, to develop solutions that will further reduce the environmental impact of aquaculture production. this will be the key to reducing the pressure on the oceans and ensuring the strategic food autonomy of our populations.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we live in a time of concerns on food security. we want to produce more proteins, more sustainably, and we have climate ambitions. we know that aquaculture is a response to all of that. we’ve known that for many, many years. we had the first attempt when the previous czech presidency was in place in 2009. we have not moved enough. why don't we unleash this potential? i think we should be honest to ourselves. this is about resources and it is about consistency in our policies. and we have been failing for it, up until now. and i hope that this would be an incentive that we won't fail again because the opportunities are enormous. but we should not hide from difficult issues. this is: how do we boost resources for production? how do we sort out placing those products on the market and how do we deal with their labelling? why, today, can our fish farmers not label those products organic even if they are much cleaner than any other organic product from agriculture? because we have the wrong approach in legislation. why are we not sorting out and hiding from the issue of cormorants? again, if we pretend it does not exist, the problem won't likely disappear. so please let’s act because this has a great potential and we need it as europe.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, crypto and blockchain, they could serve us for good or they could serve us for the bad. so the question of today is: are we using their potential to help us to fight tax evasion, fraud, to combat all the tactics of those who want to avoid taxation? and the answer is, no. why? because villains are always ahead of legislation. and you have been for some time promising us something, and this is the dac8, and we’ve been waiting, and we keep waiting. and until you move, we won’t move this problem at all. so please, just stick to what we have promised to each other. please put it in motion. otherwise, today, it serves for the villains. i want to reverse it. i want crypto and blockchain to serve for us, to have fair standards and fair taxation in the digital space.
for the verts/ale group. madam chairman, many people are afraid of new technology, unfortunately. it's a reason for them to try to ban cryptocurrencies, complicate their use, or try to push them out of the market. of course, such efforts will always come at a high cost, whether in money, red tape, or privacy. i believe we have a better choice, because if we can set up a basic fairness and rules around cryptocurrencies, it opens up a whole range of possibilities. the smart contracts that can be created using blockchain are the path to a new decentralized finance, a financial sector that no longer needs to be dominated by a few big banks with huge legal departments, but can be accessed by a bunch of programmers who are all connected in a startup. transparency of the blockchain the fact that all its content is stored independently on many devices at once opens the way to cheaper and more efficient tax collection. if we can prevent tax evasion, it could be a step towards a fairer society, where the same conditions apply to small businesses as to giant multinational companies. so don't be afraid of new technology, if it has any use, it will be shown. if they don't, people will stop using them.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the technological transformations induced by the blockchain simply herald the disappearance of the authority of the state, guarantor of individual contracts and property titles. we must be aware of what is happening right now: powers that were once vested in the state are being transferred to networks of companies and financiers that operate outside any democratic, and i would even say legal, framework. the decision of the european central bank to use the services of amazon, a private non-european company, for the creation of the digital euro, perfectly illustrates this fatal drift. we will lose our ability to protect our data and to decide the direction of this sensitive sector in the years to come. we have a duty to ensure citizens that no public data will be processed outside the nation. we have a duty to raise our own voice against the all-powerful private monopolies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. new technologies challenge us on two fronts. it is important to support development, but we must also deal with the risks that arise from it. this is true for cryptoassets and blockchain technology. i therefore believe it is important to establish a transparent and clear regulatory framework. the competitiveness of the union requires that finance also supports innovation, but at the same time, as the report very rightly points out, it cannot be left out of the burden of public finances. they must be included in the work of the tax authorities and must not be used as a means of tax evasion and avoidance. in an economic situation worsened by the war, further aggravated by eu sanctions, this is even more important. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. although these technologies raise a number of questions, none of them can give rise to any challenge to the allocation of competence in relation to tax policy and the treaties.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, in may 2021, there were about 9 000 different cryptocurrencies with a market capitalisation of almost eur 2 trillion, driven mainly by bitcoin, the most popular one with a market capitalisation of bitcoin that was about 850 billion. the simulated potential revenue of taxing capital gains from bitcoin in 2020 amounts to eur 900 million, almost 0.3 % of total tax revenue for property taxation in the eu. these numbers make enough clear how much is urgent to act on the taxation of cryptocurrencies. first, the commission should assess the ways in which different member states tax crypto-assets and the different national policies regarding the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion in the field of crypto-assets, underlining best practices and potential loopholes. then the member states should consider the specificities of the use of those assets in their national tax reforms to implement more effective systems that guarantee the fair, transparent, proportionate taxation of crypto-assets. would that be enough? of course not. the only real solution always remains a unique fiscal policy at the eu level. how many years will we still have to waste before figuring it out?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the impact of new technologies on taxation. it was said here, of course, that we must not run away from new solutions, from new technologies. the only problem is that to establish an appropriate taxation based on the solution, we need to have studies done and we need to have them before new technological solutions and new technologies enter the market. from my point of view, if we do an analysis now, we could see that instead of having a gain with the entry of new technologies, with cryptocurrencies, we have, unfortunately, as already said here, a lot of tax evasion and a lot of citizens who have lost their income. it has not mastered this system and i think it is good that we first make the rules in the internal market, because we already had enough evasion in the internal market on the classic tax policies, there was no need to add more. that is why i believe that with this report we will also be able to arrive at a common definition, we must have systems of national competence, but under supervision, in order not to create distortions in the market, to avoid tax evasion and, finally, to have economic coherence and growth through appropriate tax policies.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for the quality of the debate today, which reflects the quality of your report. it is clear that new technologies will impact our tax systems. to ensure that this impact is positive and to achieve tax fairness and tax compliance through these technologies, we need to act in a coordinated manner at eu level. your report contributes to this effort and i am looking forward to continue our collaboration on this topic with you.
that concludes the debate. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – with our economies moving away from the traditional models towards a more digital future, our taxation systems also need to be modernised. therefore, amending the directive on administrative cooperation in taxation (dac 8) and the vat directive on tax in the digital area is apt. thanks to new technologies such as distributed ledger technology (dlt), our tax systems can adapt to the new reality, become more efficient and help improve tax submissions of individuals and companies. notably smes could benefit from the use of dlt and smart contracts as these new technologies would facilitate smes’ contact with tax authorities and thereby improve compliance with tax rules in the relevant jurisdictions in particular. as economies digitalise, strong cooperation not just on the eu level but also in international fora such as the oecd and g20 will be important to help streamline practices while addressing potential new forms of tax fraud and tax evasion. this report sends a strong signal from the european parliament to tax authorities, highlighting the need to keep up with developments in the private sector, build on innovation and address the associated risks.
madam president, madam executive vice-president, please first allow me a reaction to mr ciocca. this is a debate about the common charger. i don’t think that anybody underestimates the impact of the energy crisis, but this is a debate on a different topic. on that topic, the incomplete harmonisation of charging solutions for electronic devices has been causing inconvenience for consumers and excessive e—waste for many years. different connectors in devices imply that users had to work with multiple cables for different electronic devices, and it also provided an opportunity for some manufacturers to limit choice and lock users into proprietary ecosystems of accessories and peripherals. proprietary charging protocols have been used to limit the power on purpose and make devices charge with reduced speeds when connected to non—proprietary chargers. therefore our group welcomes the outcome of the trialogue, which will give more control and ownership to consumers over the products they purchase. to ultimately have a common charger, however, full interoperability is also needed on the other side of the cable – the external power supply, and therefore we are looking forward to the revision of the ecodesign regulation.
mr. chairman, first of all, let me express my heartfelt condolences to the family of the late mahsa amini and to the many other families whose relatives were murdered during the protests. the iranian people are proving once again that change is needed in the country. the current political course is completely unsustainable. i especially want to pay tribute to the iranian women who took to the streets all over the country. he deserves our support and respect. we must do everything we can to support the opposition and the protesters who are bravely fighting against the brutal repression of the regime. they're fighting for basic rights and freedoms. without our help, iran will continue to export terrorism, pursue nuclear weapons, and threaten neighboring countries. a strong message must be sent to the current regime that their violent repressive acts will not escape justice.
mr president, ‘women, life, freedom!’. i observe with deep admiration the breathtaking courage with which iranian women stand these days against the dictatorship of khamenei and his morality police. the message of the iranian protests is universal and resonates across the world. it is heard by women in poland and the us, who are denied the right to their own bodies; it is heard by women in italy, where ultra—conservative forces are coming to power. it is heard by women everywhere, where the same obscurants under different symbols wait for the nearest opportunity to trap free women in predetermined roles. that is why i think it is essential that their slogans are heard today in this room over and over again: (the speaker used a slogan in a non-official language).
mr president, we must continue to help ukraine, for the sake of ukraine, of course, but also for the sake of peace and security in europe. the energy crisis affects different countries in different ways, but we can't let russia divide us, because that's what it wants. we must not, under any circumstances, succumb to putin's nuclear threats and give in to him. we stand firmly behind ukraine, for its territorial integrity and it is our duty to help in the fight against the russian aggressor. the threats of the russian dictator, the call of false referendums and the illegal attempts to incorporate ukrainian territory into the russian federation are clear evidence that military aid to ukraine is working. when putin saw that the ukrainians were succeeding in liberating ukrainian territory, he became more assertive in his rhetoric and actions. the evidence is the mobilization he carried out in russia or the military movements of russian troops towards the place of the war conflict. putin can't win the war. and we can help him lose it. it is by standing firm in our support for ukraine, by not allowing ourselves to be blackmailed, and by showing that we are strong and united.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today i will be positive because we have a quality resolution ahead of us, which contains all important elements – our reminders that russia bears the full responsibility for the war, our reiteration of the full support for ukraine, including our call to increase the massive military assistance, and also calling to explore the possibility for lend-lease military assistance; something what i have already proposed during the last plenary. also, we are rightly condemning the so-called referenda to annex the four ukrainian regions as illegal and illegitimate. and, last but not least, we are also condemning the recent russian threats to use nuclear weapons as irresponsible and dangerous, and calling that we would not be deterred in our further assistance to ukraine and self-defence. that’s all good. maybe one thing is missing here, and that’s to designate that threatening the use of nuclear force should be labelled or designed as a threat against peace and humanity. so let’s work on that because it’s unprecedented rhetoric by putin.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner, minister, two interesting reports came out recently. one is from a europe—based ngo, another one is from the company meta, and they are together painting quite an ominous picture of how we are not tackling russia’s propaganda. first, let’s talk about google and twitter. there are thousands of tweets, youtube videos and posts flagged as russian propaganda, and the companies have grown really less responsive to the requests to remove such content. according to ukraine’s stratcom, they are avoiding even taking their calls or responding to emails for several months. meta’s report reveals quite horrifying numbers: usd 105 000 spent on anti—ukraine propaganda, 60-plus websites impersonating european news organisations and a network of amplifying fake social media accounts. we know there are technical ways to limit the impacts of this online war. but let’s understand one thing: this hydra has more heads than we can cut off only by depending on technical solutions and, therefore, these companies. we see now that if we leave the sole responsibility on these private companies, they might start lacking the will to fight or, of course, the means to fight. they are also not democratically elected. we are the ones who bear the responsibility over the security of our citizens. we don’t need any more hybrid tools, voluntary codes and vague promises. we need a proper legislation with a sanctions system right now. you have the basics in our inge report, and i trust you can build on it quickly.
mr. chairman, it is true that russia's military aggression in ukraine is escalating, but that is where the truth ends. further, the official narrative continues with lies designed to mask the real reality. a lie always reliably leads us to the wrong conclusion. i'm not an official of the european commission or some foreign ministry to have to repeat official lies. and i don't care what they write in russia or anywhere else. almost all media is a propaganda tool. that's just the way it is. as far as disinformation is concerned, for example, the prime minister of the czech republic, mr. fiala, said that the websites he had blocked were paid for by russia. he said it publicly, he didn't say anything. it's a lie, and he didn't even apologize. there's nothing easier than labeling anything as misinformation. how is blocking different sources different from censorship? of course, if someone is funding the disinformation media, and they can be all of them, not just the ones that are funded from russia, they can be funded from ukraine, from the united states, from various eu countries, so they are funded of course to make things sound like they're going to work. so how is that different from censorship? i'm afraid that those who fight censorship here fight because they often find themselves in a state of argumentative distress. unfortunately, europe is going into crisis lately, and everyone is trying to find some other causes than what they really are. eu leaders, you have betrayed the citizens of your countries and are leading them into ever more dangerous... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, yes, russian propaganda is in full swing. and the more putin's fifth column is, the stronger it is. we must defend ourselves, but the solution cannot be just bans and our crying. we also have to tap into our conscience. the list of cronies here goes across from left to right. yeah, who got us more into putin's noose? angela merkel and her energiewende, gerhard schröder, the dutch politicians and their gazprom or matteo salvini, madame le pen and others who are looking for funding and advocacy? i think that unfortunately it goes across here and that until we reach ourselves in the conscience, until we stop to chase the dominant here progressivism of the conservatives in the russian arms, then we will only be stronger and more able to defend ourselves against propaganda.
the european parliament has been a key player in the fight against food safety in the eu for the last decade. the world's growing population, the green deal, the war in ukraine, all of this is bringing about a surge in the price of food, gas, and therefore industrial fertilizer. the gas price is 40% of the variable cost of producing industrial fertilisers. we import 60% of our fertilisers into europe from russia and belarus. our continued dependence on russia threatens our very existence. with the war in ukraine, the price of fertilisers has increased and their imports have decreased. the european union must act quickly on this matter, first by rejecting or at least postponing the revision of the pesticide regulation and by supporting research into biopesticides. second, we're going to throw out the bias and quickly allow the use of new genomic techniques in agriculture as the rest of the world normally does. and thirdly, we will encourage the use of alternative fertiliser options, especially composted sewage sludge. farmers are trying to reduce chemical pollution in the soil. no one wants to have contaminated, unhealthy soil, but they also need suitable alternatives. if there are no nutrients and minerals in the field, we will not have enough crops with enough yield and with enough nutritional value. our food security will be threatened, and with it our very existence. we can't let that happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i’ve told this over and over again. we can’t fight two wars, advance against putin and carbon, it’s above our weight. yes, we must contain putin at any price. yes, we must support ukraine. yes, we must be independent of russia supplies. yes, we are capping the prices and introducing the windfall tax. but it’s not enough to keep social stability and prices under control. most liberal democracies is the home and friendly cooperation inside the eu are in danger. therefore, we should slow down our radical decarbonisation effort by mitigating the ets system, by allowing lng long-term contracts, by capping the energy prices, the gas from the electricity. and finally, also by rehabilitating fully the nuclear energy as the stable source of baseload. this is the way to cheaper ... (the president cut off the speaker)
president-in-office of the council. – mr. president, honourable members, mr commissioner, mental health is a topic of utmost importance. as the director—general of the world health organisation, dr tedros, noted in the introduction of the world mental health report of june this year: ‘mental health is a lot more than the absence of illness: it is an intrinsic part of our individual and collective health and well—being.’ ultimately, there is no health without mental health. the topic of last week’s world mental health day – make mental health and well—being a global priority for all – is also testimony to its importance. i very much welcome all the initiatives organised to highlight the day, including the one focusing on inclusive, accessible mental health promotion, prevention and the services for refugees and migrants that took place in the european parliament. i do not need to go through all the list of the crises we have gone through in the past years and which are still ongoing. all of them have a serious impact on the functioning of our health system and on the mental resilience of our population – from the covid—19 pandemic to russia’s war of aggression against ukraine and its subsequent humanitarian consequences, energy and food crises, as well as subsequent economic difficulties for populations all across europe. i would mention in particular the mental health impact of these crises on both the youngest and the eldest in our societies who will need specific support, allowing them to cope with the challenges ahead. therefore, i very much welcome the ‘healthier together’ initiative of the commission of december 2021, as well as the allocation of 27 million for mental health care. even though mental health is a primary competence of the member states, it is a recurring topic for discussion about ministers in the council, often in the framework of broader discussions. for instance, when ministers discussed the humanitarian and sanitary situation due to the war in ukraine at the council meetings in march and june this year, they exchanged views and best practices related to mental health support for the people of ukraine. even before the covid—19 pandemic, the council approved a conclusion on the economy of wellbeing, which includes a dedicated section on mental health and which calls for a mental health strategy of the european union. most recently, i welcomed the adoption of the ep’s first reading position on the regulations on the european centre for disease prevention and control and on serious cross-border health threats in line with the agreement reached between the coordinators. both texts recognise the impact of an important outbreak of a communicable disease on the continuity of health care, including mental health issues. the council will adopt accordingly its positions on 24 october 2022. to conclude, let me assure you that the presidency of the council we will continue to follow attentively the relevant developments and challenges in the field of mental health.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen. mental health is precious for each and every one of us. and i want to thank the european parliament for shining a light on europe’s mental health. even before the pandemic, mental health problems affected 85 million people in the eu, and covid-19 only exacerbated the problem. now with economic worries, soaring energy prices, rising food costs and daily images of a brutal war, these are all putting incredible pressure on people. many citizens and families are forced to choose between heating their homes and filling their fridges. we live in turbulent times, filled with uncertainty, and it is so easy to feel lost, to feel hopeless, to feel alone. experts, not surprisingly, have warned of an approaching tsunami of mental health challenges. this warning was confirmed during the conference on the future of europe, especially echoed by our young people. i welcome that this house adopted the resolution already last july calling for action at european and national levels. we need to take urgent, ambitious and coordinated steps to protect the mental health of our citizens, especially for the most vulnerable amongst us – for children, for the elderly, for young people, for those who are suffering in silence, who do not have a voice. i assure you that we are listening and we are playing our part. in the state of the union address, president von der leyen committed to work on a comprehensive approach to mental health. we have started already to prepare this work, which will involve several eu policies and actions. first of all, we need to improve our understanding of mental health issues and prioritise prevention and promotion of better mental health. we have to improve access to mental healthcare – one of the principles of the european pillar of social rights. we are supporting member states in reforming mental health systems and implementing national programmes, including on suicide prevention. we have already allocated more than eur 28 million to mental health actions under eu4health programmes in the last three years. some member states have also used the resilience and recovery facility to focus on mental health. the key to success is ensuring that mental health is addressed in a comprehensive way at home, at school, at work, and in the healthcare system. identifying children facing challenges, supporting parents and families are important to prevent mental health issues. and i can say that because i have worked in the mental health area as a psychologist for many years of my life. we must build inclusive and equal societies that reject stigma and truly listen to citizens. societies that hear cries for help, no matter how quiet these cries sometimes are, and respond with accessible care. together, i am convinced we can achieve more. we need commitment from all actors throughout our societies, in research, in employment, in media. we need to show how business, sport and education can constructively contribute. we need to work with all member states, with ngos, with healthcare professionals and parliament. but, most importantly, we need to respond to the needs of our citizens and those of our health professionals. ladies and gentlemen, protecting mental health is an investment. it is an investment in our people. it is an investment in our economies. it is an investment in the future. and let us not forget, there can be no health without mental health. so i truly look forward to working closely with you to prepare this comprehensive approach, to listening to you and to working together in order to promote healthy minds and build healthy societies.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the renew group welcomes this important debate. the pandemic has indeed brought this mental health problem to the fore, but it has also made it worse. between 2020 and 2021, as far as mental health is concerned in people aged 15 to 24, all problems have doubled and nine million adolescents aged 10 to 19 have been affected by mental health problems, such that suicide has become the second leading cause of death among the young population in europe. we cannot look the other way in the face of this reality. so it's imperative that we work on mental health from the earliest ages and from those spaces where young people and teenagers are: schools. but we also have to fight against the stigma that still exists in our societies; we have to improve the strengthening of mental health services that should be considered essential. we at the renew group are calling for a european strategy on mental health. we have been doing this for some time, to ensure that there is adequate investment in the treatment and prevention of mental health problems in europe.
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, i am a psychiatrist, former minister of health and director of a psychiatric hospital. i've been involved in the long-term care of the mentally ill. i regret to say that the european union is taking the wrong path in this area. the so-called reforms that began in the united states and the united kingdom 60 years ago have led to the transfer of the mentally ill from underfunded psychiatric institutions to the street, to the homeless, to shelters, and then to prison as a special form of social care. the european states have repeated and intensified this perverse practice without learning a lesson. there's a senseless ideology behind it. the goal is no longer to cure. as for the social causes of mental illness, they are getting worse in the countries of the european union. this is a situation of material and spiritual poverty, a deterioration in social and occupational opportunities and a growing social isolation, which leads to a lack of resilience of individuals who are then easily subjected to stress. deal with the cause and effect in a qualified way, ideological approach will not fix the situation.
for the left. mr president, commissioner, with regard to the newly announced mental health initiative, i would like to see a comprehensive plan that protects the rights of people with mental health problems, raises awareness and ends stigma and discrimination in mental health. to do this, the eu must develop a comprehensive long-term strategy or mental health plan, ideally modelled on the cancer plan. the covid-19 pandemic has shown us that mental health care is often an overlooked and underfunded area of our health care systems. access to appropriate care is declining, and it's worst for children and teens. mental health is an interdisciplinary subject. poor mental health often has its roots in social, economic, physical and cultural environments and is not just a personal and health problem. we have to keep in mind that the current bad economic situation and the confluence of various crises will continue to have a significant impact on the mental health of the population and our problem will only accelerate. my question to the commission is therefore how will the directorates-general concerned work together to make this initiative as effective as possible and when can we expect a concrete plan?
mr. chairman, commissioner, minister, mental health is essential to both personal well-being and the well-being of our society. it affects all areas of our lives, whether it's employment, public health, impact on inclusion, quality and sustainability of society and the economy. mental health problems affect 85 million people in the european union and the united kingdom, costing us 600 billion euros a year. and we're all seeing the negative impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the energy crisis, and the war in ukraine on mental health. yet, mental health is not receiving the attention it deserves at the european union level. the european parliament therefore calls for a comprehensive european union strategy on mental health that takes account of the cross-sectoral impacts of different policies on mental health. and we also need to declare 2024 the european year of mental health. i am very pleased to have been able to initiate the s&d position paper calling for such a strategy and i believe that the commission will take our position paper into account when preparing the mental health initiative, because this is the initiative that the president of the commission announced in her state of the union address two weeks ago.
mr president, mr commissioner, well, of course, we know all that this debate we are having today is partially because of the nord stream attacks, but our critical infrastructure is vulnerable and has many vulnerabilities towards other means rather than physical attacks, also coercion, sabotage, espionage, etc. and partially because some colleagues already covered, let’s say, the physical aspects, we will be discussing next plenary the nis 2 directive. so cybersecurity will be also done in our session. i want to focus on the aspect of espionage. our information services in the czech republic, where i am from, uncovered a certain russian spy within our institutions. but this is a problem for even european institutions, for national member states and, of course, for our companies. and i don’t hear often that we are dealing with espionage and how are we dealing with it? not only, of course, from russia, from china, too. and i would like to hear from your perspective and from the commission what is being done in this regard.
thank you very much for the answer. i do understand that, of course, the european union cannot have its own intelligence services. and i thank you for the information about the cooperation for national member states. but if we were very specific and let’s say there was a russian spy in the european commission, who is the one who would uncover that?
mr president, madam commissioner, mr vice prime minister, juraj and matus, two young slovak boys whose lives were violently ended just for being who they were. so first i have a message for everyone who spreads hatred – be it politicians, media or organisations fighting against equal rights – your words do not just hurt lgbt people, their families and their friends, hatred leads to violence and violence leads to murder. second, as a matter of fact, lgbt people feel often insecure. how can we as a society accept that there are citizens who do not feel secure in their countries, in their hometowns? as european politicians, we share the responsibility to ensure that europe is a safe space for everyone. and, therefore, i call on the national governments that block the inclusion of hate crime on the list of eu crimes to stop that.
a withdrawal based on a blue card lift. mr president, allow me to express my full support for what mr radachovsky has said here. i'm a czech. my dad was slovak. so, i actually have half of my relatives in slovakia, and i've never encountered anything like what's described here. they all come from different walks of life. of course, this act is condemned by everyone, but the most terrible thing is that it is being tolerated here, that by doing this, czech or slovak society is bad? you can't be serious.
madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, do you remember the rigged elections in 2020? those massive protests in civil society and international organisations claiming lukashenko is not a legitimately elected president. so here we are now, two years later, talking about lukashenko’s helping a regime, a war criminal, and dragging belarusian people to the war, just to please his puppet master in the kremlin. this is what you get if you don’t stop dictators once you have a legitimate chance. lukashenko is partially a product of our own weakness. i am thinking every other day about kasia budzko, whether i could walk into her cell and get her out. i can’t because i don’t have the power. but the member states show on the example of putin that they have the power to stop lukashenko. and even though they are not here and they are not listening to either me or kasia or... (speech off mic)... please do not make the same mistake again. lukashenko and putin must be stopped. we owe it to the victims of the war, and we owe it to all free people in the region.
mr president, the world produces enough food to feed everyone. but then we all have to make different food choices and distribute the food better. so we cannot achieve this by allowing ukrainian grain ships to come to the netherlands to fatten our broilers, while people are starving all over the world. so we're not going to do that by using three-quarters of our agricultural land to feed billions of animals in the livestock industry, while we can also grow food directly for people. so we're not going to achieve that by letting four big companies dominate the global grain trade. and we're not going to do that by bankrupting hundreds of small farmers every day, while a handful of big food companies are making billions in profits. and we're not going to get there as long as a lot of politicians in this room are saying what the industry lobbyists have been whispering in their corridors. you shameless. lieutenant, keep your back straight. hurry up with the promised framework law on sustainable food, because only then will we guarantee food security.
mr president, commissioner, since the beginning of the war in ukraine, we have been reminded that our priority must be to feed the hungry. during the 2008 crisis and the outbreak of the first hunger riots in the arab countries, the food weapon had already shown its major political destabilising power. the threat to the world is therefore not to be taken lightly. in europe we have long forgotten this reality. if europeans have enough to eat today, it is because of an agricultural policy that has been heavily criticised. and from the very beginning of the ukrainian conflict, europe was able to find practical solutions by helping to free up grain that had been blocked in ukraine. these are emergency measures, but we now need lasting solutions to ensure food security in the poorest countries. i should therefore like to take up one of the ambitions expressed by the director-general of fao, who supports the need to develop the use of new technologies, particularly genetic ones. it is an important lever to ensure better resilience of our agri-food systems and to increase production in the countries that need it most. i therefore call on the commission to show courage on this matter and to rise to the challenges ahead by making proposals quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know today that there are 75 to 95 million people, new people, living in extreme poverty. there are 150 million more people chronically undernourished; there are about 828 million people affected by various levels of hunger. all the g20 agriculture ministers were aware of this and are well aware of the many reasons for the dramatic food insecurity of millions of people. you know, it's in climate change, but it's also in the pandemic, but it's also in greed, it's also in speculation, and it's also in wars. and so i cannot but regret, for example, that the same states have not been able to agree, in a clear and unequivocal way, to condemn the russian aggression against ukraine and its serious repercussions on agricultural production, food security and the nutrition of millions of people. it is this hypocrisy that we cannot accept and we are certainly aware of it.
mr. chairman, mr. minister, you have been swearing by the affordability of food. so i ask, why don't you? you represent a government that has cut subsidies to farmers, to those who produce food, and given them to those who produce no food. a government that has not helped with input prices, a government that has the highest vat on food in europe - these are the facts - and a government that has caused food inflation to even outpace energy inflation for a few months this year. that's a record. what's the worst part? you're still letting small and medium-sized czech food producers down. you're probably the last government in europe that also loves the retail chain more than its own citizens. we don't love them that much around here, thankfully. so i would just ask you to either start doing what you say here in europe or you'd better not get too involved with the commissioner when we talk about food prices.
mr president, commissioners, the repowereu plan is another step in the overall work of the european union institutions after the readiness for target 55 package and as a consequence of the whole recovery and sustainability mechanism, and mainly on the energy efficiency, renewable energy and energy performance of buildings directives, which aim to increase energy efficiency ambitions, accelerate the green transition and diversify energy supply. synergies between all these instruments are the only realistic way to implement them effectively. the inclusion of a 'repower eu' chapter in member states' national recovery and resilience plans can also achieve the additional investment and the reinforcement of energy reforms needed for the overall transformation of the european energy system. the development and implementation of these chapters in the plans will lead to both an update of these plans in the context of the situation of the energy markets and the war in ukraine and at the same time to increase the effectiveness of the plans and diversification and independence.
mr. president, mr. vice president, the world is coming together in egypt these days to address the accelerating climate change. the united nations tells us that the current trajectory is 2.6 degrees. the world meteorological organization says that europe has seen the greatest increase in temperatures in recent years. and one question is hanging over the negotiations in egypt: will the european economy turn back to fossil fuels? are we going to bury our credibility in the negotiations on the fight against climate change? are we going to stop being that engine that we have been in international negotiations? that is why the debate on repowereu that we are having now is very important. because we, as greens, could in no way agree to a horizontal derogation from the principle of 'not causing significant damage' to allow recovery funds, cohesion funds, to go to infrastructure that would tie us to fossil fuels for the very long term. it would have been a very big mistake and we therefore welcome the fact that parliament has put limits on that. because we, as greens, fully understand that energy security in the coming winters is very important and that we will have to take painful decisions, but they must be decisions limited in time, with a limit on the money we are going to spend, as we are going to propose in the parliament's proposal, because that pretext cannot be used to invest european public money in investments that condemn us in the long term to be more dependent on fossil fuels, because that would be a very big mistake. so i would like to thank the rapporteurs, too, for having taken our proposals into account in that regard. i hope the council will listen to us, because this is no longer simply a matter of public policy; we are playing with europe's credibility in the fight against climate change.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for decades a false ecological ideology has systematically undermined the energy independence of our nations and tried to get us to give up nuclear energy. yet this decarbonised energy, in which france has been able to invest and excel, has proved its worth. it is by far the most efficient, both from an environmental and economic point of view. ladies and gentlemen, the national interest of our fellow citizens must take precedence over the dogmatism and fanatical incantations of green mayors. in these times of crisis, to abandon nuclear power would be to go against the grain, at a time when millions of families, children, students, pensioners, isolated people have to choose between eating or heating, and for some perhaps giving up both. it is worth coming to us to talk about sovereignty of states and the choice of the energy mix, if the european union refuses to include nuclear energy in its green energies. that is why we tabled our amendments: to include nuclear energy in green energy. because it is not the people of europe who are paying the bill for the political errors and errors of the commission, the german greens and mrs von der leyen.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i'm glad we're talking about a program that turns the european union and its member states away from russian resources. for years, germany has been leading the policy of dependence on russian raw materials, and the european commission has also supported it. it's good that this problem of russian aggression against ukraine has finally been recognized. second, there's the funding thing. the commission tends to show resources that have already been allocated among the member states. in fact, we are talking about a very small amount of 20 billion euros, when the commission itself says that we need ten times more money by 2027. and finally, third, there's this internal contradiction in all of this. on the one hand, we are trying to increase the share of renewable energy in the energy mix, but on the other hand we know very well that this renewable energy must be accompanied by some kind of stabilizing reserve. what is the stabilizing reserve? quick build or quick build gas reserve? and the gas went up a dozen times. that's another contradiction we need to resolve.
mr president i am sad to see that parliament has once again ruined an initiative that was originally good. what's this about? the commission recognised that the accelerated energy transition that we are forced to undertake as a result of russian aggression in ukraine places different burdens on member states, as their capabilities and exposure to russian energy sources differ. it is therefore necessary to provide financial support to member states in carrying out this work. the council succeeded in making a more balanced proposal on how and from what sources resources could be provided, but the ep, by excluding oil and nuclear investments to help the transition, is showing that it has no interest in a successful energy transition in central europe, and that it does not see the physical, technical and geographical constraints. if parliament's text is successful, the pace of independence will be slowed down, the population will pay the price with higher energy prices and inflation, european industry will be displaced and our competitiveness will be reduced. so i respectfully ask the majority on the left to understand that greening must be based on economic rationality, not ideological conviction. please, they don't want to destroy europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. of course, the european union needs more of its own energy again. and of course agriculture can and must contribute to that goal. biogas plants can make an important contribution and can also promote a circular economy in the fertiliser sector. but the commission's proposal to shift money from the cap, from the common agricultural policy, to repowereu simply does not make sense. this money is already planned under the common agricultural policy and the strategic plans. and member states are happy to - and should - support biogas plants already today under the second pillar of the cap. they also create additional income for farmers. but if this money goes to repowereu, it will no longer go to farmers. it goes to the big energy companies in europe. farmers are being robbed of money. there is no incentive for a circular economy. they don't ferment manure anymore, they probably ferment corn. and that's why we should leave it at that and we really shouldn't encourage this shifting of money.
mr president, commissioner, your proposal is a good one, with only two flaws, which if you remove, will make a great contribution to the current crisis. we're in a period of constant price increases. inflation in your country and in mine is 20%, for some foods even much more. we're looking into every possibility of helping. and you're here to suggest that we take more money from farmers. it's not good news for our citizens that we're taking food prices seriously in brussels. over the years, we've reduced support for farmers to 0.35% of gdp, and now, to ensure affordable food for our citizens, we want more money. and one other thing. please do not tell member states how to spend funds under the green deal. there's no time for that, believe me. we don't have a patent on intelligence in brussels, and they know much better where to invest so that people don't freeze, have jobs and the money is used efficiently. please try.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dora may seem at first glance to be something rather technical, but it is actually quite an interesting file and it brings about quite a significant advance in our common cyber security. it's a harmonization that has the potential to save a fairly large amount of money, and so it's one of the good examples of why we actually need the european union to ensure the safety of our financial sector, and why the european union is giving it a lot more resilience. so what have we accomplished? firstly, we found agreement on several basic principles, because the rules require clear governance and defined responsibilities in it management and mapping of critical and ancillary functions. regular testing and clear conditions mean not only certainty of resistance, but also harmonised rules across europe. for example, banks will no longer have to deal with the difficult and expensive testing for each national branch over and over again, but can rely on this common framework. what i think is crucial is that the shift from the security type should never be allowed to get in the way of a more realistic model of resilience. we're asking for a minimum amount of time before the service is ready to resume. we're obliging banks to report attacks quickly, allowing other actors to prepare for new types of attacks. and at the same time, we protect the rights of banks to quickly replace an unreliable or otherwise compromised service provider. one area where there is definitely room for improvement is in the sharing of experience. rapid and standardized reporting is a good first step, but we should certainly want more, because we encourage individual players to share information, but we should want to go further and want a unified reporting center within the european union that would allow for a faster response to threats and provide a platform to share those sensitive issues on neutral ground. the text does not yet evaluate these options, but it is certainly to be hoped that in the future we will take them up and unlock further savings and increased security, because transparency and trust help and certainly help reduce risk in the banking sector. therefore, particularly in the light of the current security situation, the rules for it service providers are essential. simply put, if companies are to provide european banks with trustworthy security, they must have a clear presence in europe, because we simply cannot entrust our critical infrastructure to untrustworthy actors. we have reached a draft rulebook for the safety of financial institutions in the single market. i'm sure there are points in it that will be reassessed after a few years. and it's hard to say at this point what that will be, because dora is the first documentary of its kind in the world. the americans and no one else has anything like it. and that, i think, is essential to european solutions, because we have found a compromise that moves us forward. we'll certainly continue to evaluate and improve it in a few years, but at this point, it's just a very significant step that makes our financial sector one of the most advanced and secure in the world.
rapporteur. mr president, i would therefore like to take this opportunity once again to thank both the commissioner and all my colleagues, the rapporteurs, mr kelleher and all the others who have contributed to the preparation of this document, and all of you who have spoken in the debate. i believe that european citizens will appreciate this, because this is one of the most important documents to ensure the security of our financial sector and it contributes to it in a significant way, which is undeniably unusual in the rest of the world.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner – really difficult to go after this amazing speech, by the way – thanks to this legislation the number of essential and important entities we will need to protect just in my country, the czech republic, will be around 6 000. currently we protect 350. now imagine other member states. the scope and enforceability of this regulation is unprecedented and is a success. in a world where ransomware attacks increased by 600% last year and where cyber teams in ukraine just so protected 1 million households from an attack on their power grid, i don’t have to talk about the importance of cybersecurity. it has never been clearer and i am proud we react. let me also express pride that open source and end-to-end encryption are finally getting the recognition in our fight they deserve. i do hope this house won’t go against itself in the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, the geopolitical climate for europe is getting harsher and we step up our efforts to secure vital entities in our single market as a whole. we respond to the growing impacts of climate change and to gaps and vulnerabilities that opened up in the pandemic. and this directive really well complements our new dora act on financial services and our newly updated nis 2 directive for the resilience of digital infrastructure. and my colleagues already mentioned several other important legislation that has been built up in this house, and this is one of them. this is where the magic happens, too. it lowers the bureaucratic burden by creating a single point of contact for businesses on these three and more legislations and streamlines requirements and reporting. this is a huge success and showcases the true potential what benefits the eu and cooperation in general can bring. i am also happy to see that the risk assessment by member states will now include cyber threats and risks for cross—sectoral or cross—border nature. this has been an important addition as we see our adversaries increasingly blurring the lines in their attacks and switching between domains. i was hoping that this period of security cooperation and open access will prevail. in the form which i proposed, we will find ways to regularly publish findings of the critical entities resilience group for the general public for use in academia and security research, of course, adequately anonymised. unfortunately, we still have some trust to build in this, i see. that, of course, does not does not hinder the important work that has been done. this directive is timely and relevant, and it is my hope that member states will diligently transpose it into their national laws, together with dora and nis 2.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we often speak in very technical terms and perhaps in ways that are less understandable to the public. what does critical entity resilience actually mean? it means that we are now thinking, through this directive, of increasing the resilience of sectors which ultimately depend on the quality of life, on their lives. energy, health, food, space... 11 areas, as has been said, are covered by this directive and it is clear that a lesser resistance of one sector, of one critical entity in a particular member state will have cascading effects throughout the space, throughout the internal market. i therefore strongly believe that it is necessary to ensure that this directive is properly transposed into national law. but i also think that infrastructure in the areas that i've mentioned here has to be of quality and of the same quality, in order to be a fair competition in the market and to have equal resilience in the market. that is why i strongly believe that we must have a single area, commissioner, and i appeal to you again. i know that the council of commissioners voted to bring the three countries romania, bulgaria and croatia into the schengen area and to work on improving the quality of infrastructure in the 11 areas.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr rapporteur, colleagues, developments in recent years have made it clear that the protection of critical infrastructure is no longer a purely security or strictly military matter. hybrid warfare, cyberattacks, the coronavirus pandemic, and the ongoing war in ukraine all demonstrate the breadth of potential threats we face today. it is clear that cyber space is increasingly becoming a target. it has the potential to literally paralyze some of the critical activities, not just within the territory of one country, but on an international, even global, scale. i therefore welcome the fact that the directive under discussion today takes account of this new reality. it extends the range of areas that fall under the critical sectors. it includes transport, healthcare, water and heat, energy and, not least, financial services. the directive offers a range of tools to prepare for these situations, to strengthen our mutual resilience and to face threats as they arise. i hope that the governments of the member states will make full use of these instruments.
madam president, for over two months, the iranians have been protesting against their government. they're protesting against a regime that imprisons and kills innocents. against a regime that threatens other countries with destruction. our job must be to point out these acts, not to be silent, but to stand up for those who resisted. we can see hundreds of thousands of people protesting in the streets, but also brave athletes who are clearly showing their opposition to the iranian government with their gestures. even though they're the most visible and face jail time. we must reject any attempt to establish trade relations with iran or even to ease sanctions. iran has not changed. nor must our attitude toward him change. the european union must help all those who oppose the regime and condemn all those who cooperate with it in any way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yes, there has been a lot of good that has come out of this. the czech presidency is working day and night, the third emergency energy council so that there is at least some short relief. okay, the european commission is supporting the interconnectors, but the main issue is the price of gas here and now. and, yes, you've come up with a ceiling, finally, after we've been calling for it for months. but that ceiling is still five and a half times higher than the price two years ago, and five times higher than the price in the united states today. so the solution is long-term gas contracts, which some countries, unfortunately, refuse to accept because they don't want cheap gas. just the us, qatar, azerbaijan, not russia, of course. that would be the solution, because investors would have certainty at the time. china signed a 27-year contract with qatar, so why can't we do the same? if we don't, the big energy-intensive companies will all move to china or america. and we don't want that.
mr president, dear colleagues, minister, commissioner, i welcome this proposal, and especially now that we are discussing – or we already discussed – russia as a state sponsor of terrorism, and this package for ukraine. we are being cyber—attacked by a pro-russian hacker group – they already admitted it – so i think we do not really have to discuss here very thoroughly why we are doing it and why it is important that we continue our swift and efficient support to ukraine. but also i do have some concerns about this proposal and i would like to voice the criticism. firstly, i think it would be really better to also support ukraine in the form of some grants, not only loans. so we help them ultimately to alleviate the debt burden they have. additionally, i also encourage the commission to focus on internal structural reforms in ukraine to their objectively capable extent. and lastly, i urge the commission to at least inform the european parliament, the co—legislator, ahead of time, notably given the limited time to consider the proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cop 15 in montreal is an important meeting. we all want to protect nature and biodiversity. we all care about the future of forests, the cleanliness of water and the protection of the soil. there is only one planet and the world has to work together on this and europe has to lead by example. but i warn the european union not to repeat the mistake made at cop 27. please, let's not present as binding goals those that we haven't even approved at home. many areas, such as land use or spatial planning, remain the exclusive competence of the member states. it's the same with their funding. the european commission has so far only presented a proposal, a plan and nothing more. the acceptance of any commitments on behalf of the european union is therefore premature, unreasonable in this sense and legally unacceptable.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, when i say 1 400 political prisoners in belarus, do you imagine a face? i do. i will probably never forget kasia budzko, now 21 years old. she studied to become a teacher and now, for two years of her still so very brief life, she is in a penal colony because of challenging the authorities. i have the same activist nature. i can’t stand oppression and injustice. if i live one day in dictatorship, i am certain i will end up the same as her, or dead. maybe then someone will read my name in a room like this. but can it change anything? i’m trying not to lose hope. with every resolution like this, naming those who suffer under dictators, with every euro we block from the hands of lukashenko and his sugar daddy, putin, with support to democrats in an out of belarus who keep fighting, i believe kasia will become a great teacher for future generations – maybe with her work, but mainly with her example, attaining freedom. let’s help her get it!
madam president, the proposal to amend the three directives is unilaterally aimed at promoting exclusively solar and wind power plants, i.e. occasional sources of energy. the commission is essentially putting biogas plants at a disadvantage. today's technology allows biogas to be used to generate heat and electricity and, after being pre-treated, to power agricultural machinery. today, there are tractors, loaders, and combine harvesters that can run on biogas. the biogas can be pumped into existing gas lines after being purified. there is therefore no reasonable reason for legislative discrimination against this promising and, at the same time, ecological and, above all, domestic resource. at a time when the commission and parliament have caused the rise in the price and shortage of fertilisers, the rise in energy and fuel prices through sanctions against russia, it is pointless to legislatively harm production in biogas plants. that is why i and my colleagues have tabled a number of amendments to create a favourable legal environment for biogas.
madam president, dear prime minister golob, last year i had the opportunity to visit slovenia on a mission as a member of the budgetary control committee. under your predecessor janez janša, slovenia was suffering multiple rule of law crises. the issue that resonated with me mostly was the intimidation of the controlling authorities, as well as the lack of media freedom. budgets were cut and critical investigative journalists were victims of organised attacks. and of course, we can’t forget his efforts to politicise your radio broadcasts at radiotelevizija slovenija. but you are the head of a new government and i hear that the situation has improved already. and your legislative initiative to restructure the governing bodies of radiotelevizija slovenija is a welcome one. i hope that that will indeed lead to a less hostile public media landscape. however, it appears that there are some branches of the government where the political influence is still creeping back in. so recently we have witnessed your interior minister resigned over the ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make a few comments under rule 195 of the rules of procedure. one of you has posted or arranged for the posting of a disgusting picture on my office door. i consider this a cowardly and unprecedented attack on my rights as a member of parliament. the pressure is completely unacceptable. there are even individuals among you who use social media to call on citizens to denounce those who have a different opinion. they call for the compilation of lists of such citizens and demand their internment. is that the idea of democracy? are these the european values? shame on you!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, surely we all can agree that we want a long-term and peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian issue. that is beyond dispute. i guess we all want world peace and nice weather as well. i don’t want to mock it; of course, we have to do everything we can. it is clear that israel, as the only long-term democratic, predominantly jewish state in the middle east, must be given security guarantees that are credible to the israeli public. the eu’s credibility in this matter is diminished by the fact that it repeatedly ties itself to various dubious programmes that support palestinian radicals. this reduces its own credibility in the eyes of both partners and further deepens the rift. these days, it is more than appropriate to recall that the eu must first and foremost control its hands and pockets. that’s the way we should start.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, georgia is one of our most important partners, which is close to many of our hearts. we have been pointing out for years that the areas of democracy, rule of law, fundamental freedoms and human rights in georgia have significant issues without improvement on many elements, which is why the report on georgia is somewhat critical. implementing genuine and thorough reforms and addressing the shortcomings of the current legislation is a must. there is no space for rushed laws and politically motivated processes. if there is a will for a european future, for candidate status, there will be a path. that’s why it’s essential to undo the injustices done. georgia needs to take the next steps towards its goal of eu membership. now i am addressing the georgian politicians directly: put aside your differences; work towards the assignment – the unique opportunity that would fulfil so many aspirations of so many of your citizens of georgia.
madam chair, we've been urging the united states for years to get a green deal. they finally did it, and we don't like it because they did it in their own way, more capitalistically, with tax deductions that lower the price, not with regulations and orders that raise the price, as is happening here. in the czech republic, we say that if you walk around with a jug of water for a long time, you'll tear your ear off. we don't like it, of course, because it violates wto rules, but when we point out for years that the cbam that we are going to do here violates wto rules too, and when we point out that the americans don't like it, here is the result. in the czech republic, we say: "what you say to the forest, the forest will say back". so yes, let's stop trade wars that nobody's making money from, but we have to start with ourselves first.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner, foreign interference in all democratic processes, including disinformation. that is what our name inge (special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation) stands for. now europe shakes in its core due to these issues. the chinese police stations in our member states are yet to become a huge scandal. we have among us people corrupted by hostile foreign powers. attacks on our infrastructure are increasing, not that any of this is surprising. it would be surprising if authoritarian, non-democratic regimes did not try to exploit our openness. what is quite terrifying, though, is that, especially at the outset of the european elections, there is still not enough action against foreign interference, against disinformation. i hoped that, when disinformation during covid killed people, there would finally be a legislative proposal. i hoped that, when russia attacked ukraine, we would be eager to strengthen our resilience. i still hope now that, when so much foreign influence emerges, we will see a strong plan – no package, no codes without obligations. no offence to those activities. i would like to hear where the problem is. is it the commission? is it some member states, digital corporations, lobbyists? what exactly needs to happen so that there is some enforceable, clear measure that will make it urgent for you, if dead people, politicians in prison and cyber—attacks are not enough?
the european parliament has been a key player in the fight against unemployment in the eu for the last decade. among them are small children, pregnant women, and the elderly. as a result of the massive russian attacks on ukrainian infrastructure, we are witnessing a humanitarian crisis that europe has not seen in years. i'm glad the european union is putting its hand in the game and showing that we're not leaving ukraine. the russian attacks on ukraine's energy infrastructure are state terrorism, used by dictator putin to bring the ukrainian people to their knees. despite all the pre-war assumptions that kiev would fall in a matter of days, for ten months ukrainians have been bravely resisting an aggressor who commits war crimes on their territory, murders innocent citizens and wants to literally smash the country to pieces. we must persevere and continue to help ukraine. it's in the interest of the security of all of europe.
