i have to say, madam president, your presidency of the council, mr president, began - unfortunately, it must be said - with a false start. your lobbying for the french nuclear industry threatens a months-long dispute over energy policy. and i want to make it very clear that it is wrong to rely on nuclear power, and it is completely wrong to classify nuclear power as green in the taxonomy. there are more environmentally friendly, safer and cheaper alternatives to nuclear energy to make europe climate neutral. and we need a french president of the council who will bring us together in the coming months and not put french industrial interests above the common good. the expectations of you, mr president, are high. you have the chance, for example, to make the future conference a real success. the time for vague declarations of intent is now definitely over. it is good that you have declared here today that you will fight alongside the german government for the right of initiative for the european parliament. but do not stop there - make the council more transparent and ensure that we get a european electoral law with transnational lists!
madam president, mr president, europe will be social or it will not be. it is no coincidence that this word in french has come to europe. it is almost part of the dna of every french presidency, of the social europe of the future. and i absolutely agree that the inequality of the peace process is really in danger. and new studies by oxfam clearly show that covid-19 is a brand accelerator for inequality. the more important this lighthouse project is for making minimum wages, which really contribute to this, more appropriate to fill people's pockets, and also for ensuring that we have a good and strong tariff policy. therefore, neither the french presidency nor parliament can afford to see these negotiations fail. and regarding your bonmots von schuman, with which you have once again abstained on the creative efforts, would i very much ask you, was the verordnung 883 anbelangt die soziale sicherheit , ihr kreative bemühen gestern einzubringen.
in writing. disillusionment, that is what i felt when i heard the words of emmanuel macron, who came to this very room five years ago to present the project of a federal europe and who today uses much more moderate tones. the french president touched on a number of themes: immigration, border protection, and ecological transition, are just a few examples. unfortunately, however, i find that each of these arguments has been approached in a way which does not take account of the decision-making autonomy of individual member states. it is this repeated behaviour that makes me skeptical even about the words about the protection of the rule of law. i think that too often this is used by brussels to impose its own dogmas on the 'non-aligned' countries, which are therefore guilty of not being sufficiently european. i would like to conclude with two thoughts: the first concerns the rearmament and the strategic compass programme, and i would simply like to reiterate that the european army already exists and is called nato, while the second is a wish that the presidency not be used as a means of pursuing personal interests, such as the forthcoming elections in france.
emanuel macron gave an ambitious presentation of the priorities of the french presidency in front of the house of european democracy. the fact that he has defended the right of legislative initiative of the european parliament, which i would like to stress, is proof of his respect for the role of the european parliament. the french presidency has set three priorities - sovereignty, growth and humanism. in his speech, the french president communicated them through the commitment he called the three promises of europe: the promise of democracy, the promise of progress and the promise of peace. as regards the promise of democracy, i would stress the affirmation of the rule of law as a guarantor of values and a safeguard against the return of authoritarian regimes, and the emphasis on a sense of belonging to a europe that is proud of itself. as for the promise of progress, i would stress the commitment to european leadership in the green and digital transition that will increase opportunities, combat inequalities and strengthen the european social state. finally, as regards the peace pledge, i would stress the affirmation of the multilateral strategy, with the summit with the african union and the balkan countries as an example, and the need to strengthen european defence as a condition for shared sovereignty.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment through the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. i would remind you that there will be no 'catch-the-eye' procedure or blue-card questions, as throughout the session, and that there are plans for remote interventions from our liaison offices in the member states. the speeches in this debate will, as usual, be made from the central platform. i would like to congratulate the commissioner.
the rapporteur. i am not sure that this is the case. now we are taking back control from the tech giants and bringing our digital eu legislation into the 21st century. we are building on the e-commerce directive which we adopted in 2000. the world looked very different back then. facebook didn't exist, mark zuckerberg hadn't even gotten the idea, and steve jobs and apple hadn't even launched the ipod yet, let alone thought about the iphone. the commission also notes that the commission did not provide any information on the amount of the royalty paid by amazon to amazon in the form of a royalty payment. it is therefore time that we make a fundamental update of our digital legislation. the dsa could become the new gold standard for the tech sector, not just in europe, but worldwide. major tech nations like the united states and china are closely watching what we agree to. exactly like they did when we made gdpr. with the dsa, we are taking a fundamental stand against the wild west that digital has evolved into. for too long, illegal products and content have been spreading online. algorithms have fostered division, and recommendation systems have destroyed young people's self-esteem. digital technology has simultaneously shortened the distance between us and deepened the chasm. you can write to people from all over the world, but judging by the debate on social media, it's all too easy to forget that it's a human being you're writing with. you can buy products from all over the world, but you can no longer be sure that the product you are buying actually meets the standards we have in europe. and as easy as it is to click the item down into the virtual basket, it can be just as difficult to get in touch with the seller if you have problems. that is why we need new, strong legislation. legislation to ensure that what is illegal offline will be illegal online in the future. we are voting on this legislation today in the european parliament. the dsa contains an incredible number of important and much needed positive actions. i would like to emphasize that we are improving consumer safety, putting an end to the endless harvesting of data and opening the black box of algorithms. in concrete terms, we are improving consumer safety in three areas: firstly, we propose that consumers and citizens should be able to contact the mediation service through a single point of contact. this will provide social media users with better opportunities to contact the services if, for example, their content is unlawfully removed or their account is blocked. at the same time, it will also allow consumers who have unknowingly purchased an illegal or dangerous product online to contact the online marketplace directly and not just through some chat function. secondly, we demand that online market places do more to protect consumers from illegal products. they shall remove the illicit products quickly and effectively and contact the users who managed to purchase these illicit products before they were taken down. and thirdly, we are introducing a right to seek compensation directly from the platforms for both consumers and businesses if it is that the platforms do not live up to the provisions we put in the dsa. this is a significant improvement for both the consumers and the businesses that make their living off the platforms and use the platforms. we're also slowing down the platforms' use of our data with a series of new rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of minors are respected. minors' data must not be harvested and used for commercial purposes. we in this parliament are putting an end to that. at the same time, it should be easier to withdraw consent if it has been given for targeted advertising. so it shouldn't be any harder to say no thank you than it is to say yes thank you to them. and finally, we would like to ban "dark patterns". the design of a dialogue box so that the choices of citizens are determined and influenced in a certain direction must be abandoned. all of this is helping to give us users more control over our own data. we also open the black box of the algorithms and let the commission and the digital services coordinator look into the reports on the consequences of the algorithms. and going forward, social media companies need to assess what that means with the changes in their algorithms that they're making. does an algorithm promote eating disorders and self-harm, for example? if it does, the platform has to step in and fix the problem. so the biggest platforms can no longer hide behind a veil of ignorance. now they're forced to face the consequences of their algorithms. this is really important. so we're taking back control from the tech giants. with the european parliament's proposal for a new gold standard for the tech sector, we are sending a very, very strong signal to the council. we insist on legislation with two main objectives: we must protect users and consumers, and we must ensure that the digital economy can grow within a democratic, transparent and reliable framework. i am very proud of what we have achieved with this agreement in the european parliament. for this, too, many deserve great thanks. first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the cooperation we have had in imco, also the associated committees and the coordinating colleagues. i also thank all my colleagues in my own group and other colleagues in this parliament who have contributed to the proposals and to the discussions, because this is such an important area. i'm glad you guys made it. i would also like to thank the staff of the imco secretariat and the s&d group. without their work, we wouldn't be where we are. and then a big thank you to the two commissioners, mrs vestager and mr breton, for the incredibly good cooperation. finally, i should like to thank the presidencies, both the portuguese and the slovenian, and for the time being also the french. we have had a good working relationship so far and i am sure that it will be very good when we start the trilogue negotiations shortly. i hope we can do it relatively quickly. the citizens of europe deserve that we end this legislation quickly so that we can have a safer and more secure internet. we all need that. thank you!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, as the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i would like to thank all the colleagues from other committees, rapporteurs and shadows, for their good cooperation on this dossier. in the itre report, my focus as the rapporteur has been on ict industry innovations and small and micro-enterprises. it is important for european businesses, especially for our smes, that we ensure a level playing field and fair competition and make sure that european values and legislation are respected in the online world. what is illegal offline should be also illegal online. this also means that businesses from third countries should follow european rules when operating in our digital markets. our smes and start—ups play a crucial role in creating europe’s digital competitiveness and growth. when regulating the digital market, we should make sure that we are not setting obstacles for growth. we should encourage companies to scale up, innovate and invest in europe. in particular, we must ensure that the smallest enterprises are not faced with excessively heavy administrative burdens. flexibility and legal certainty are necessary in order for smes to operate and grow. therefore, in the itre text, we also introduced various exemptions for small and micro—enterprises.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. mr president, the major digital platforms are powerful tools of innovation that have flooded our daily lives. they are economic actors, but they have also become public actors. they are vectors of freedom of expression, but they are also vehicles for messages of hate, threats, harassment or illegal trade, which we have an imperative duty to prevent from spreading. in the face of the legal vacuum that the gafams have exploited so far, it was time for europe to put an end to the web anarchy. the text voted this week in the european parliament is unfortunately only a very timid advance, far from the great speeches and good intentions made just a few moments ago by emmanuel macron. the fight continues and i will fight to ensure that young people, vulnerable people, consumers and businesses have a healthy online and social media environment. nothing, i mean nothing, justifies us letting our smartphones become our own worst enemy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, the digital services act is a unique opportunity for us to take back control of the digital age and put citizens and our democratic institutions in charge. my committee, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, is proposing amendments to make the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco committee) even stronger. for instance, the report protects secure encryption, but we also need to prevent data leaks that expose the data of millions of citizens to cybercriminals every year, by giving users a right to use digital services anonymously wherever possible. the imco report rules out legal obligations to use error—prone upload filters. but we also need to prevent tech platforms from imposing conditions that disregard our fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression and media freedom online. so, dear colleagues, let us jointly make every effort to shape our digital future in line with our fundamental rights and values.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the internet used to be a wonderful place: a place for sharing knowledge, discovering the world, meeting new people; a marketplace and a public square where everybody with a connection could take part in the conversation. what a marvellous invention. today, we’re looking at the shambles of that marvellous world: the rohingya genocide promoted on facebook, teenage girls driven to anorexia by instagram. the storm on capitol hill was the wake-up call. how will our democracy survive with social media spreading hate and lies? tomorrow we will be taking a very important step toward saving our democracy and free internet, because censorship can never be the solution in a free country. neither governments nor platforms have the right to censor legal speech. and i would like to say to my colleague from the free right: this is exactly what the digital services act is not doing. what the european union is achieving with the dsa is to hold platforms accountable for what they do and not for what their users think. so what do the platforms do? they collect data – their users’ data or the citizens’ data, because you don’t even need to have a google or facebook account to be spied on. and then platforms use that data to build very comprehensive profiles of every one of us, which they use for two things: sell us ads and keep us on the platforms as long as possible, recommending us content that will make us interact as long as possible, to which we are vulnerable. unfortunately, psychological research shows that what makes us interact and stay on platforms are two emotions: anger and fear. and this is why content that arouses anger and fear goes viral in the internet: it increases platforms’ profits. that’s why the recommender systems disseminate hateful speech and disinformation at far higher speed than anything else. and it is not true that the internet is a perfect mirror of the real world. it’s a completely distorted mirror, and the content is being distorted to increase platforms’ profits. so how does the dsa increase these challenges? it starts with very basic things. orders by national authorities need to be respected. users have clear rights. complaint mechanisms, independent dispute settlement will be in place. what do we do to protect citizens? we take a few steps, but we don’t go far enough. we will ban surveillance advertising for our children, for minors, but not for adults. we should have and could have done more. this week, silicon valley representative anna eshoo and others introduced a bill in the us house of representatives to ban surveillance advertising. this is what we should have done. what we did do, and i’m very proud of this: we opened the black box that very large online platforms today represent, with risk assessments where platforms have to look into the risk their business model and their algorithms themselves present for human dignity, for example, with independent audits and with, above all, access to the data for independent research, for independent and ngos to study and assess compliance. this way we will finally be able to shed light on the platforms’ practices, collect evidence and tell the stories of how targeting and engagement-based ranking tampers with democracies, and we will be able to build a better and freer internet. the dsa is a first step, but it is the fundamental law for the digital world, and i am extremely proud that europe is the first democratic continent to take this important step. it will shine. its light will shine.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this area. when i ran for the european parliament, there were almost no discussions with schoolchildren or students that weren't about upload filters and the concerns of young people about the free internet. and that is why i am proud today of this compromise that is before us. yes, we will be more consistent in removing illegal content. but we're not making the mistake of holding the platforms accountable, which would lead to overblocking and more upload filters. we find a good compromise, and we don't cut off freedom of speech. this is very, very important to me. i know that there are amendments from colleagues who still do not seem to have a proper understanding of the internet, who want to bring it back. as the leader of the liberal group in the home affairs committee, it was particularly important to me that we have this ban on upload filters, that we do not have a ban on encryption, that we do not have a clear name obligation and also not the obligation to store data. we have reached these concrete points on civil rights. but we're also creating more transparency in the algorithms. we're taking control of the power of big tech, and we're making sure that the internet is a rules-based internet. and i am very proud of the rapid work we have done in the european parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the other members for the fact that we have reached an agreement quickly here and perhaps also under the french presidency with the council. this is important if we are to set a european standard in this global debate on how to deal with big tech, how to deal with the internet, and we are doing so successfully.
mr president, madam vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. in my home region of saxony, the right-wing extremists are using social media to infiltrate the corona protests, and assassination plans are being made on telegram against politicians. this is a subversion of democracy and we cannot tolerate it any longer. but simply blocking services like telegram would be the wrong way to go: don't shoot the messenger! what we need instead are clear, democratically written rules for the online world. and this is happening all over europe, because online hate and incitement is not only increasing in saxony, not only in germany. the digital services act, it creates these much-needed rules for dealing with illegal content and with transparency requirements for platform algorithms. because at least since frances haugen, we know that for profit, hate posts are pushed especially by facebook. and this law will be the framework to tackle hate and incitement, across the digital single market. parliamentary negotiations have led to the conclusion that these rules now apply to telegram. because these messaging services, where there are large, open groups, they should fall under the dsa's rules, so they should be subject to reporting for criminal content, just like facebook, twitter and so on. and that's exactly right. we must maintain this line in the negotiations with the council and the commission. so we end up creating a tool that we can finally use to defend democracy online.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with the digital services act, we are making history. together with the digital markets act, we have the opportunity to put strong principles into law for our digital world. we need to democratize our internet and put a cap on big tech. this is why it is important to prevent manipulative advertising. we've seen in the us, and we've seen in brexit, that manipulative advertising is eroding our democracy. when a society no longer has a shared reality, but instead everyone receives tailor-made fake news, our society splits. personalized, manipulative advertising is a problem. this is why it must be easier to reject personalised advertising on platforms. i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of amendments which have that in mind. but strong rules also need strong enforcement. we should ask ourselves honestly whether we are well placed to do so. the big tech companies employ thousands of lawyers and go to war with them against our laws. the number of staff in the european commission, on the other hand, is manageable. and so we think it will be very important to strengthen the eu commission in this fight, as well as decentralised enforcement. because we have seen in the european general data protection regulation what happens if we don't do this. we need a european digital agency that can compete with the big tech companies and enforce our laws.
mr president, commissioners vestager and breton, mrs schaldemose and other colleagues! whether you're scrolling through social media, shopping online, or browsing for new apps, the digital services act will shape our everyday lives. it is designed to bring e-commerce up to date after more than 20 years. of course, this has aroused some curiosity. because of course the conservative colleagues have once again brought out their surveillance fantasies; the last boom we are seeing right now is in their amendments, and some of the ideas from the left side of the house are so appallingly anti-innovation that they would really not create any more tech companies in the eu. so it was fortunately the liberal ideas that prevailed. no encryption ban, no data storage, no identification or clear name requirement, no upload filter requirement, notice and take-down remains. the dsa follows the principle that with size comes responsibility. the rules for non-profit organisations and small businesses are rightly different from those for the very large players. the dsa is creating clear rules for platforms to deal with illegal content. the dsa will help to combat disinformation in a targeted way, including from foreign propaganda media. we must confirm these achievements here today and then defend them in the negotiations with the member states for a free internet, for a true digital single market and for our civil rights.
in writing. – the adoption of the digital services act (dsa) is a landmark moment for europe on our path to build a digital future based on european values. the dsa aims to take another step towards our target – not to kill the platforms, but to make them more responsible, more equipped to support democracy and address concerns about illegal content. the dsa gives intermediary services the tools to ensure a safer digital space in which users’ rights are protected, illegal content is taken down, and advertisements and recommender systems face an increased level of transparency. as the epp group rapporteur in the econ committee, my priorities included ensuring a level playing field and adequate support for smes, providing legal clarity to business, and ensuring a balanced and cohesive final text that maintains the intended horizontal approach. i am pleased to see these priorities reflected in the final version of the text adopted in the lead committee – imco – and by the european parliament this week. as european citizens have largely shifted their activities online during the pandemic – and are faced with an increasing amount of illegal content and disinformation – this legislation is more relevant than ever.
in writing. the digital services act aims to better regulate platforms and make the web safer for users. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. clear procedures for dealing with and removing illegal products, services and content, including the regulation and protection of advertising targeted at minors, shall be established. in the event of damage, users will be able to claim compensation for the damage caused to them in the future. in addition, the obligation to carry out risk assessments and the requirement to increase the transparency of algorithms are introduced to combat harmful content and disinformation. in addition, very large platforms will be subject to special requirements because of their much higher risk factor for the distribution of illegal and harmful content. in all this, it is important that freedom of expression and fundamental rights are not jeopardised.
in writing. what is illegal in real life should also be illegal online. the digital services act now under consideration is primarily concerned with preventing crime in the online environment and ensuring that illegal and criminal activities are also prohibited online. this includes, for example, the identification of hate speech and other illegal material on social media. in particular, the dsa needs to be able to crack down on hate speech and online harassment of women and girls and to require online platforms to remove harassing material without delay. this is of the utmost importance for the cybersecurity of europeans. the digital services act regulates online intermediation and storage services, online platforms and social media platforms. millions of europeans use these services every day. they are part of everyday life in europe. internet services and social media platforms are such a big part of people's lives - and their role has only been strengthened by the coronavirus pandemic - that they are virtually like online public spaces. we cannot therefore allow online services to operate solely by their own rules and to be realities outside the rules of society, where illegal and criminal activities are not prohibited. we must ensure that these principles are also retained in the version of the digital services act that will be shaped in the trilogue.
in writing. today we are talking about digital services, which is the challenge of the 21st century. most social, economic and especially commercial activities have moved to the digital world. member states are increasingly adopting different national laws which differ from one member state to another, with a negative impact on the internal market. the internet knows no boundaries. under the treaties, the eu is obliged to guarantee the free movement of goods and services and the freedom to conduct a business. given the cross-border nature of the internet, which is widely used for the provision of these services, it is necessary to harmonise the conditions for the provision of indirect services across the internal market in order to ensure that undertakings can access new markets and benefit from the internal market. but at the same time, we as legislators need to give consumers and other users of services more choice without relying on a single supplier and reduce the administrative burden on indirect services, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and individual consumers. in the context of the re-launch of the digital services act, let us remember that a secure, accessible, predictable and trustworthy online environment is necessary for union citizens to enjoy their fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights. in particular, attention shall be paid to privacy, the protection of personal data, respect for human dignity and private and family life, freedom of expression and information, freedom and pluralism of the media and freedom of establishment.
before we move on to the next item on the agenda, i have an announcement to make. the renew europe group has sent the president decisions on changes in delegation appointments. as you know, these decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will come into force on the day of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the violation of fundamental freedoms in hong kong (2022/2503 (rsp)) 1.i would remind members that no spontaneous remarks will be made in any debate at this part-session and no blue cards will be accepted. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time. the following table is presented: see minutes of the sitting.
author. – mr president, let me begin by thanking my colleagues from across this house on excellent cooperation in drafting this resolution on the worsening human rights situation in hong kong. our cooperation is a testimony to the strong cross-party consensus on standing with the people of hong kong. the latest worrying developments show how the prc is stifling the life and the soul of the freedom-loving people in hong kong. i am glad that we are able to agree on clear messages that the european union must take. first, implementation of the targeted sanctions against those responsible for the ongoing human rights crackdown. second, review of the eu-hong kong agreement on customs matters. third, support a unhcr special session on the deterioration of the human rights situation in mainland china and hong kong. fourth, implementation of the eu council conclusions from july 2020. and we reiterated that any ratification of the eu-china agreement on investment must take into account the ongoing human rights situation and china's commitments to the sino-british joint declaration. let me also welcome that we once again called on the eu leaders to decline invitations to attend the beijing winter olympics. not because we want to politicise sport, but because we cannot turn a blind eye to the dire human rights situation across mainland china and hong kong. finally, i think it is imperative that we express solidarity with lithuania in the face of the prc’s economic and political coercion and speak out clearly in defence of our eu single market. nevertheless, while i am glad that this house has delivered such a strong and united message, it must be followed by concrete action. freedom-loving people in hong kong and across the world must know that the european union stands by them.
a writer. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i too would like to thank my co-authors for their good cooperation on this text. we are not going to be able to do that. the freedom of the people in china and hong kong is being taken away piece by piece. the government in china does not honor contracts. we have seen this again in the last elections in december. the national security act has led to the arrest of lawyers, politicians, journalists and activists. some of the opposition were able to flee abroad to escape arrest. furthermore, only 20 of the 90 seats were actually free to vote in the supposedly free elections in hong kong. this produced a turnout of only 30 percent. if you look at this negative spiral of government in china, we are forced to make political statements - see hong kong, see tibet, see the uighurs or taiwan. if treaties and international human rights no longer have any value for the chinese government, then we must be vigilant and determined at the latest now. china is already affecting freedom of expression in the european union. the minimum that was possible, namely the political boycott of the olympic games by the member states, was not possible - the minimum that we could set as a sign, as a symbol. it is therefore all the more important that our well-written text be sent to the chinese government by a large majority, with great determination and as a symbol, and i ask for its approval.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in hong kong we are witnessing publicly the disregard of the chinese communist leadership for democracy, human rights and international agreements. the erosion of "one country, two systems", the breaking of international treaties, the erasure of history, the imprisonment of journalists and democracy activists, the undermining of freedom of expression and press - this is the reality in hong kong, and also internationally, china is putting pressure on countries, institutions or companies that do not act in a favorable manner. the most recent example is that lithuania cooperates with democratic taiwan and is being blackmailed economically in return. and the eu still has no clear, common position on china. we can't let ourselves be divided! if you want to take on one member state, you must know that you are taking on the whole of the eu. the competition of authoritarianism versus democracy is in full swing. our values don't defend themselves, we have to do it ourselves. and it's time we started doing that.
mr president, chow hang-tung was sentenced to 15 months’ prison in hong kong for organising an event to light candles on 4 june. like her, so many activists and journalists fight to protect civil liberties in hong kong, but more and more of them end up in jail, they are being beaten up with no due process inside. so dear colleagues, what we have here – the freedom to raise our voice freely – is quite a privilege. i truly believe that this privilege comes with a responsibility: to use this voice to support and protect those who fight for democracy and freedom. well, it’s not as easy as it is here. we need flexible visa schemes for these activists; we need to increase our pressure on china. but there’s one concrete thing we all need to do: as long as our democratic allies are in prison in hong kong, as long as uyghurs keep disappearing in xinjiang, and as long as people can’t even light candles in china, none of us should participate in a political show in which the olympic flame is misused to cover up grave human rights abuses. dear colleagues, i can’t go to china anyway, because i’m under sanctions. others are as well. but it needs more; it needs a very clear political message: a joint european political boycott of these 2022 olympic winter games, and, mr commissioner, we have two more weeks to work on that one.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, congratulations also from my side. the people of kazakhstan have long enough tolerated hardships and injustice. their patience reached its limit and they have started protesting peacefully. increased gas prices are not the root cause of discontent, but a symptom of a larger social injustice. it is a common practice in an autocratic state that growing dissatisfaction is abused by a few. small violent groups hijacked the peaceful protest and, in an orchestrated manner, started looting, setting on fire and storming the official buildings. while defending institutions is an obligation of any government, it does not justify the disproportionate use of force. peaceful protesters were stripped of their rights of expression. the term ‘terrorist’ was randomly used. over 10 000 people were detained and president tokayev gave orders to shoot without warning. shutting down the internet and further restricting media freedom left the kazakhs uninformed and alarmed. moreover, in an unprecedented move, president tokayev invited russian troops to restore order. this sets a dangerous precedent in the 30 years of sovereign statehood that was preserved carefully by balancing the powerful neighbours and its own ethnic groups. the invited shanghai cooperation organisation groups were led by the same russian general who also participated in annexing crimea and other occupations. those foreign forces have now mostly left. however, not only tokayev, but the whole country have to foot the bill for putin’s services. what will be on the bill? recognition of crimea? control of kazakhstan’s uranium mines? a new military base? time will tell. meanwhile, the eu was again shamefully absent from this crisis. instead of shuttle diplomacy and presence on the ground, we limited ourselves with expression – again, traditional concerns. we need to be and can be more active. we should support kazakhstan if its sovereignty comes under attack. but equally important is to stand with the journalists, civil society and activists that defend the democracy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the thank you, mr president, and congratulations from me too! ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, more and more people around the world are unable to make a living. rising cost of living, energy and food prices, the gap between rich and poor, middle classes eroding - and more so in kazakhstan. kazakhstan is one of the world's leading oil and gas exporters. but the average people in kazakhstan cannot even afford a full tank of gas. western companies such as chevron, exxonmobil, shell, eni and the russian lukoil group are exploiting kazakhstan's oil and gas resources. us companies are the main investors. china is stepping up. a small clique of corrupt men rule, plunder and sell the land while the people are impoverished. the people are fighting back. oil refinery workers' strikes against mass layoffs have turned large sections of the population into a social uprising. they are demanding social security, the right to independent trade unions, the fundamental freedom of association. the eu's reaction to this martial law against demonstrating workers has been remarkably hesitant. social uprisings, which could possibly affect the interests of capitalists themselves, are not very welcome here either. the fight for power between the corrupt cliques in kazakhstan is being referred to. yes, there are, and yes, they try to exploit the uprising but that does not change the character of it, that it is a popular uprising, that it is workers who are on strike. and my solidarity is with them and their legitimate demands.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i sympathize with the people of kazakhstan when they rise up to put an end to the shameless exploitation of the country by the elites. 225 dead, hundreds injured and thousands imprisoned are the sad record so far. this is a very serious matter, it must be condemned. the german government, of all countries, is asking kazakhstan to respect freedom of assembly and expression. in our country, the government is responding to the nationwide peaceful mass protests against the corona measures with completely disproportionate means: an attack on the freedom of assembly. even two citizens standing or walking together can be considered an unauthorized demonstration. a couple's harmless shopping spree can become their undoing. (interruption of the debate) shut the fuck up! a priest who had prayed the rosary with a few of his followers in munich was taken into police custody before my eyes. charge: illegal assembly. i thought i was in north korea. the ban on telegram is in place to further restrict citizens' freedom of expression. the fact that citizens are simply looking for alternatives to the media, which only convey attitudes instead of facts, seems to be of little interest. fundamental rights seem to be no more than political baggage. never in our german history has life been so severely restricted as it is today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. hundreds of thousands of peaceful protesters from the middle of society are labeled as right-wing radicals, nazis and enemies of the state. they are to be silenced by arrests and heavy fines. it is not a solution to problems, but rather a way of avoiding the risk of being dragged into totalitarian states. dear government of germany, (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, congratulations on your new function. first and foremost, let me, let us, express our condolences to those kazakh people who suffered during the recent crisis. when i see the crowds looking for the bodies of their loved ones, my heart weeps tears. when i see the demolished streets of almaty, hear the voices of people who are scared, my heart weeps tears. so, we must express our solidarity with the kazakh nation, and this is the starting point of any discussion about the current situation or about the future of the country. but i would also like to express hope. hope that the new government and the president of this wealthy and large country would use this crisis for a chance – not to grab power, but a chance to introduce reforms; reforms for law-enforcement authorities based on civil rights and political reforms based on freedom and pluralism, and yes, foreign policy reforms based on a vision of kazakhstan as a truly independent country in the region – a country facing europe and european values, and yes, the green reforms that this country started in order to rid itself of the dependency on fuels that it has. there are many hopes that we share. these weeks will decide whether these hopes will ever materialise. you, president tokayev, have a chance to prove to us all, everyone who spoke today, that we are wrong about our fears. we are waiting for a sign from you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when i read the draft resolution, i was already wondering when i read about peaceful demonstrations. because in fact, government buildings have been burned, police officers have been beheaded, and the demonstrators have been heavily armed. where did the guns come from? so we've had armed insurrection before. i must first of all say that when there is an armed uprising, it is the most natural thing in the world for the security agencies to try to quickly suppress it with armed force. that's exactly what happened. and it went over the top. and it wasn't that russian troops were on the front lines, but they were protecting the rear facilities. in this respect, the events in kazakhstan are not conducive to the continuation of the usual russia bashing in this house, nor can one see that the government has done anything that a government elsewhere would not have done. but the interesting thing is that we're always quick to judge without actually doing analysis. the fact is that the kazakh government has been trying for months and years to build contacts with the west, in addition to its geographical confinement to china and russia on the one hand and its ethnic contacts with turkey on the other, and that is why it is also opening up and that there are reforms. the message we're sending now is that we're coaching them, that we're not trying to listen to both sides, and that we're ultimately countering those efforts. and this message will also go to all the central asian republics. they will say: 'we cannot cooperate with the europeans, because if something happens here that we do not want, we will be taught from above. we are threatened with sanctions. let's leave it alone! and that's why i can only remind you -- as i often do -- that it's time to return to diplomacy, to balance, to partnership, to listening, and that the days of europe beating the rest of the world and judging by its own standards are, thank god, over. kazakhstan deserves a chance but one that takes into account reality, and not one that thinks everything has to be done the way it is in the european union. thank god you don't have to.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let's talk about the essentials here. we had riots in kazakhstan, and again -- as almost every month -- there have been significant crimes against humanity across the globe. in kazakhstan, protesters were shot without warning, and over 200 died. yes, that's right, many thousands of these protesters, commissioner, were peaceful protesters. there are also looters among the protesters we know that, we can see it in the pictures. and perhaps a small fraction of the protesters were violent. but what we cannot do is shoot at a crowd of people with live ammunition - another violation of the red line. - i'm not sure. parliament, the council and the commission must use all their powers to persuade kazakhstan to do this, but they must not push kazakhstan into the arms of china and russia. we must show kazakhstan together a path to freedom and democracy, and that is the task we must now tackle.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. since 2019, when the dictator al-bashir was deposed, there has been a sort of separation of powers between the military and civilian governments in sudan. but then on october 25, 2021, there was a military coup, and since that military coup, there have been protests in sudan. protests for a return to a democratic process, protests for a return to a civilian government. and people gather and demonstrate, and these gatherings are crushed, they're banned. people were killed, many hundreds were injured. we in the european parliament stand with the people who are fighting for democracy. we in the european parliament stand with the people who are fighting for human rights, for free elections and civil liberties, and we do so in sudan. and that is why we call on the military authorities in sudan to stop all violence. we call on them, in particular, to put an end to the violence that has been shown in recent months, for example against medical facilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we expect the way to be cleared again for a process towards a civilian government that prepares free elections in sudan. in particular, we support the un traditional mission to facilitate this process and dialogue within sudan so that sudan can live in freedom and peace in the future and the people of sudan can strive for a better future for themselves and their country.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. sudan is a country torn by crises, dictatorships, uprisings and people fighting for democracy. the sudanese are willing to make incredible sacrifices to free themselves from military dictatorship. they're taking on peaceful protests with a very heavily armed army. the country seems to be caught in a cycle of endless military dictatorship, dirty politics. but the sudanese have never stopped believing in democracy and fighting for it - brave people trying to resist the military. but sudan's generals are not letting up. general abdel burhan has recklessly dissolved the transitional institutions he himself headed, arrested the civilian government and imposed a state of emergency. it's a military coup, even though burhan was already in power but he just wants more power. the 2019 protests to overthrow long-time dictator bashir were a highlight of the revolution. the protest movement was certain of victory. she thought that with the support of the world, she could take the final steps towards a new democratic sudan. she was wrong. the generals have regained their confidence after a period of shame, and now they are making a u-turn, a so-called rollback. and overall, it seems that sudan's democracy movement is standing here in pieces, all by itself. the courage of the protest movement is all the more impressive and deserves more than just verbal solidarity. and we in the european parliament also call in our resolution for an immediate end to the use of force, for independent investigations and for the withdrawal of the current emergency regulation. there must be no immunity from violence and crime. freedom of expression and assembly must be guaranteed. the eu and member states should apply the eu rules on human rights defenders and intervene everywhere: prison visits, trial observation, issuing emergency visas. cooperation with sudanese security and border guards must be stopped immediately, as there is a risk that they will be better equipped by cooperation with the eu and will use these capabilities to repress their own population. we have to stop that.
before we continue the debate, i shall open the first round of votes today.
the items on which we are voting are on the agenda. the voting is open from 9.45 to 11.00. the same voting procedure as in the previous rounds of voting shall apply. all votes are by name. i declare the first round of voting open. as i said, you can vote until 11:00. the results of this round of voting will be announced at 1 p.m.
we are now continuing the debate on sexual and reproductive health and rights in the european union.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate you on your re-election, and wish you all the best and god's blessings. my fellow citizens! we are again talking about women's sexual rights and reproductive health. and once again, we're exchanging the old familiar points of view. what is new, however, is that mr macron has recently made clear what is hidden behind your disparaging words, namely that abortion and the killing of human life are at issue. you may be cheering that the killing of the unborn is to be included as a human right in the fundamental treaties. and, mr matić, your report is clearly bearing fruit. but instead of rejoicing, you should be weeping, as i am weeping, over this monstrous affront, this infamous attack on one of the foundations of our constitution, our conditio humana, namely, the right to life, the dignity of the human being. they are putting the ax to the root of europe. you're destroying your own building. and i am convinced that if abortion had been a human right enshrined in the treaties, poland and hungary would never have joined this union. and it goes beyond that. because where family life was once a right, it is now an exclusive privilege for elites and immigrants. we are facing, at least in western europe, the disappearance of european citizenship and our christian-jewish culture. and i don't want to, and i don't think you want to either. but then we must resist this initiative of president macron. we must look back at what has brought us together in europe, what has made us strong and what is still necessary if we are to have a good and worthwhile future. abortion destroys this future, and we want a life with our children and grandchildren in freedom, in dignity, in joy. and as the father of ten children and the gifted father of 15 grandchildren, i can tell you that this is true. be smart choose the future and stop macron's initiative!
madam president, a wide range of obstacles to sexual and reproductive health and rights remain in the european union, particularly for women facing intersectional discrimination, such as black women, roma women and women with disabilities. the right to health, in particular reproductive and sexual rights, is a fundamental pillar of women's rights and must not be taken away or confiscated by conservative forces. some member states, such as hungary, poland and malta, still have very restrictive laws on abortion. in malta, even in cases of incest or rape, women do not have the right to decide what to do with this unwanted pregnancy. we must therefore continue to fight so that women in the european union can freely dispose of their bodies and, above all, so that they do not resort to obsolete methods that endanger their lives. it is therefore up to the member states and the institutions to guarantee sexual and reproductive rights.
i’m sorry. i know that it is a really emotional debate on a very important topic, but we have to respect the time limit. this is also to respect colleagues in this debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot tolerate the unconditional protection of sexual and reproductive rights being called into question in the european union, which is unfortunately what we see and this parliament has had to deal with this issue on several occasions. the de facto ban on abortion in countries such as poland, as well as the continuing attack on the rights and dignity of women, are shameful and must be strongly opposed, because they are de facto actions contrary to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. parliament must therefore take the side, together with the commission and the council, of those movements of women and men who are demanding guarantees on these issues, on such essential issues as the right to safe and legal termination of pregnancy, menstrual hygiene, sexual education, contraception, the fight against gender violence and homotransphobia. in my country, italy, the right-wing has succeeded in blocking a law precisely for this reason, the zan law, but we will continue to fight for its adoption and for the full protection of these rights throughout europe. we expect the new president of the european parliament to continue to make a personal and direct commitment to this issue. we want to see concrete action and a really clear agenda, because parliament has carried it forward to date and will have to continue to do so with the utmost toughness, the utmost commitment and the utmost strength.
madam president, let me recall, in this year of 2022, the european year of youth, that sexuality and relationship education in school is an international human right for children and adolescents. according to the united nations convention on the rights of the child, children and young people have the right to receive comprehensive, scientifically accurate and age—appropriate sexual health education. access to information on sexual and reproductive health, as well as sexual orientation and gender identity, plays a key role in preventing and raising awareness on sexual abuse and gender—based violence. it helps our youth understand sexual orientation and gender identity and to dispel common myths and stereotypes about lgbtiq+ people. it equips children and young people with knowledge, skills, attitudes and values that will empower them to realise their health, their well-being and their dignity. it also develops respectful and positive social and sexual relationships. curtailing comprehensive sexual education does not serve children or the interests of our society. moreover, comparing sexual education with lgbtiq propaganda, as the hungarian and the polish governments do, violates human rights. let us not forget that children’s rights, women’s rights and lgbti rights are human rights, and they must count for all europeans.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i don’t remember how many discussions about this very sensitive and emotional topic i have experienced in this house. the debate is always very difficult and emotional. i remember one debate when i was so tempted at the end not to speak on behalf of the commission, but on behalf of myself, as a woman, as a mother and as a european woman, with quite clear feelings about this topic. today i will conclude by repeating the position of the commission. i have to say, again, what i said at the beginning, that we have discussed here a theme which falls under the competence of the member states and that the commission and the eu only have complementary competence in this field. it doesn’t mean that the commission doesn’t pay attention to matters relating to health and reproductive rights. the commission continues to monitor the developments in all member states regarding gender equality. at the root of many gender inequalities are stereotypical beliefs and opinions on how men and women should behave in society. by the way, these stereotypical opinions also caused the failure of the istanbul convention, which we had to accept with regret and which we are now trying to replace with the eu directive against violence against women, which is now in the making at the commission. the commission will continue to support member states’ efforts in implementing the united nations sustainable development goals relevant to women’s health, such as on universal access to sexual and reproductive care, family planning and education. as a last comment, i want to react to those of you who mentioned the issue of depopulation. indeed, we have a declining demographic line. it is one of the most serious threats and risks we see now in europe and which we have to tackle. let’s try to solve this problem. we have to do that, but let’s find the right solutions. in my view, the solution is investing in facilities and social services, kindergartens and related services in the member states. for many years, the commission had the position that this spending should be paid solely by the member states. we changed that position three years ago, when we recommended that member states also use eu funding for massive investment in these services so that women and working parents can continue their careers while having the chance to rely on high-quality services provided by the state. some member states are using this opportunity and some are not. why? it’s a question for those member states. we must also stop being hypocritical and have to look at the sad reality. when women have children, they then pay for their care with the pay gap. they are paid less. women’s salaries are still 20% lower than salaries for men. some speak about the care penalty. i don’t like this term because care is something which we love to do, both women and men. most of us love to take care of children and also of our old parents, if this is the case. but why should we be punished for that? women pay a high price, through the pay gap and the loss of career chances. so we have a lot of structural problems, which are tightly connected with the issue we discussed here today. these connected things fall very strongly under the competence of the eu, and that’s why the commission tries to focus on these matters which relate to the problem or to the topic we are discussing here today. i just want to say on the issue of women’s rights that the context is much broader and it is still very serious. there is a lot of unfairness and also a lot of economic aspects to it. it’s not wise not to enable women to have families and continue their work. sorry for this broader context, but i wanted to speak about the things where we can – and we should – do more. this is exactly what we are trying to do through the gender equality strategy and through the legislation that the commission is proposing.
president of the council. thank you very much, madam president, and congratulations on your election as vice-president. we have seen in this debate that we are facing a debate which, as has been pointed out, is sensitive, sometimes emotional, because it touches on fundamental rights. but contrary to what mr ilčić said, i believe that, in respect of the institution, we cannot say that the european parliament is not the place for this debate. and i think that, even if there are questions of competence, i will recall them in a moment, i recalled them in my introduction, neither the european parliament, nor the european commission, nor the council can consider this a debate that we must avoid or ignore. and i would like to take up the point made by mr lópez aguilar, who said that the rights we are talking about are not just women's rights. it is often the right of all and it is also important to remember that. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. i think that's true. we do not necessarily have the same views, and perhaps that is true, but we must, and this is a sign of maturity, have a democratic debate on this issue. in this respect, the initiative taken by the president of the republic, emmanuel macron, yesterday, on behalf of the presidency, to have a debate before you, before this par excellence democratic body, on abortion in particular, but more broadly on updating - and i say this on behalf of our french position - the extension of the fundamental rights recognised by the charter of the european union, is an essential debate. it is not true, mr kuhs, that the rights are fixed. you have mentioned that if this right to abortion had been enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights in the early 2000s or a little later, some member states might not have been able to join the european union as it is. but i would remind you that in this charter of fundamental rights proclaimed twenty years ago, there is the abolition of the death penalty. twenty years ago, the death penalty was not abolished in my country. france, under the conditions of the year 2000, could not have joined the european union. but it is very good that fundamental rights are being extended and that there is a debate on these fundamental rights. we must not consider our rights as fixed. to be on a continent that has enshrined rights and freedoms is to be on a continent that has gradually extended each of these rights and each of these freedoms. are we mature enough to have a unanimous agreement on this? obviously not. i respect that. and france, like no other country or political group, can impose it on others. but having this debate is absolutely vital. i would like to remind you, because it is my responsibility on behalf of the presidency, and i did so in the introduction, and i will do so here to conclude, of the precise legal framework of our discussions, particularly on behalf of the council. i have said that the european union has no competence, and i am happy to admit this, to regulate national rights as they stand in this matter. this does not mean that we should not have a political debate and it does not mean that we should consider things as fixed for eternity. this is the very meaning of the conference on the future of europe, in which many of us will be participating tomorrow. it is in this context, in the reflection we are conducting on our institutions, our rights, our policies, that we must have this debate. the position expressed by the president of the republic is that of france, and i repeat it here, to have an extension to the right to abortion within the framework of this charter. i know this debate will live on. i know it's going to be difficult, but we have to face it. more broadly, i want to point out, as vice-president jourová has done, that we are obviously not summing up the issue of women's rights and rights in general to this issue, to this issue. it should not prevent you from making concrete progress in the effective access to the right to abortion when it is devoted to the wider issue of rights and the fight against violence against women. and the plan, the strategy of the european union which you mentioned and which i welcomed in the introduction, is essential. above all, i say that for this six-month french presidency of the council of the european union, we will be at your side - i heard president von der leyen's comments this morning - to advance two essential texts on economic emancipation, independence and women's autonomy. the text on the representation of women on company boards, sometimes called women on board, which had been blocked for many years, is an essential text. we have political momentum to move it forward from the council side and i believe that with the european commission and the european parliament we can achieve this. the second text, which is a major proposal from the european commission tabled a few months ago on pay transparency to reduce the pay gap, is also a text we want to push forward, and i hope to bring it to fruition during this six-month presidency. the fight is wide. we will do so on all these fronts, with due respect for the powers and sensitivities of the various parties, but with great determination, because it is also the meaning of our europe to defend ever more rights.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – all european citizens should have the possibility to use the best technology and scientific advancements to be able to build their own family. it is for this reason that in this debate on srhr, i would like to focus on ivf. the right to family life is everyone’s and the european union and its member states must be at the forefront in providing the most advanced practices to those experiencing challenges to build their family. and these services must be available to all. denial of access, by still a big number of member states on the grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or relationship status is discriminatory and in a union of equality, we must fight that discrimination. in my home country, malta, we are currently discussing preimplantation genetic diagnosis (pgd). we must ensure that prospective parents get a science-based approach to their fertility treatment without the need to seek treatment overseas. safety and security must be the cornerstone of our laws on universal reproductive care. science has changed the world. it made the impossible possible. we must seize the moment and give those requiring science to build their family all the resources available.
in writing. you talk about reproductive health, and it sounds like a hygiene spray, like a fruit-acid peel, or like lasering off a liver spot. it's a routine procedure that you'll soon forget. but you actually mean abortion. they act like it's a little thing, something you indulge in when you need it -- a lifestyle product. yeah, you even pretend that abortion is an act of defiance against old white men. in reality, you are engaged in unscrupulous propaganda and trivializing a serious intervention which for many people is murder. in reality, you are luring young, impressionable women into making a rash and far too quick decision to have an abortion, only to realize 20 years later what they have done. in reality, women throughout europe pay a high price so that you can bask in your ideological delusion. none of this is surprising. they've been doing this for decades. only your euphemisms have become more shameless. the only thing that surprises me is that you demand "my belly is mine" on the one hand, but on the other hand you want to mandate the upper arm. your belly is your private business and can be scraped at will, but all of our upper arms are to be socialized and pecked whether we like it or not. this is schizophrenia.
in writing. health, including sexual and reproductive rights, is considered a human right. in europe, some member states continue to prohibit or severely restrict abortion, leading to clandestine abortions or termination of unwanted pregnancies. religious groups and extreme right-wing groups and governments such as poland have been increasing pressure and obstacles to abortion in recent years in several countries, including spain. for socialists, gender equality and this right is a red line and a flag. we stand firm against the growing wave of groups that use sexual and reproductive health and rights to undermine the values of the union and democracy.
in writing. supporting women's physical integrity and decision-making in matters of sexual and reproductive health is a key element of equality. access to age-appropriate sexuality education, as well as access to non-discriminatory reproductive health care, is unfortunately still not a given. it is our job to ensure that everyone can realize their sexual and reproductive rights and have appropriate access to health care.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by isabel carvalhais and daniel buda, on behalf of the committee of inquiry into the protection of animals during transport, on the examination of alleged contraventions and irregularities in the application of eu legislation on the protection of animals during transport within and outside the eu (2020/2269 (ini)) (a9-0350/2021) and the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council and the commission, submitted by tilly metz, daniel buda and isabel carvalhais, on behalf of the committee of inquiry into the protection of animals during transport, following the examination of alleged contraventions and irregularities in the application of union law in the context of the protection of animals during transport within and outside the union (2021/2736 (prs)) (brs0059-2022).
the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of a long and arduous journey today. for 16 months, we have been debating and investigating a thorny issue that has been troubling civil society, namely the welfare of live animals during transport. i would like to thank my colleague, isabel carvalhais, for her excellent cooperation in this endeavour, and i would also like to thank all of you who have taken part in this extremely important debate. we have heard from a wide range of experts, veterinarians, representatives of national and european authorities, but also from farmers and ngos who are very concerned about this issue. my dear colleagues, we are starting from a reality that cannot be disputed. the livestock sector makes a substantial contribution to the european union's economy, today generating €168 billion annually and creating jobs for nearly 30 million european citizens. the work of our committee has been followed by millions of citizens, but above all by farmers throughout the european union who are extremely concerned about their future. we are already seeing a massive depopulation of the countryside and in this context, here in the european parliament, we have to come up with solutions and not with additional burdens for farmers. that is why i believe that limiting the transport of live animals cannot be accepted, because the lives and very existence of millions of people who need opportunities and not bans depend on this activity. moreover, we must consider food security in the medium and long term, both within and outside the european union. in this tumultuous context, i would stress the need to apply european law. we have all witnessed the many instances where regulation (ec) no 1/2005 has not been applied by member states. i would point out, commissioner, that whatever legislation exists at european level, if it is not properly implemented by the member states, we will never have the desired effects in this area. there have obviously been cases in europe where animal welfare conditions during transport were not respected. but, ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious and not generalize. i agree, we have to come up with changes, change what needs to be changed, change what doesn't work, but that doesn't mean we have to put a cross over this sector and bury it. finding the right solutions, which would protect farmers' interests and guarantee the welfare of live animals during transport, was not an easy task for the members of the anit commission, but it was our duty as direct representatives of european citizens to find consensus and compromise so as to leave no one behind, and i say that we have succeeded in doing so. the text of the recommendations, as voted in the anit committee, and i stress, as voted in the anit committee, provides the necessary guarantees for the raising of animal welfare standards during transport, but at the same time ensures its continuation both in the european union and in third countries. the much-desired switch to carcass export must undoubtedly be considered in the near future. but at the same time, i stress this, at the same time the member states are obliged to develop the slaughter networks that allow this. as i have said many times, not even germany has such a well-developed slaughter network, let alone other member states of the european union. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, any decision taken needs time to be implemented, transitional periods must be created to facilitate change and, of course, european funds must be used in this direction. at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must see transport to third countries as an absolute necessity in the future. i know this is a sensitive subject for many of you, but you have to understand that these third countries only want live animals with well-defined biological characteristics, which are raised in some regions of europe, and farmers in this part of europe depend on these animal exports. however, the welfare of animals during transport is certainly not a negotiable element and must be respected and applied irrespective of the duration of the transport, the distance travelled and the final destination. the european commission must come up with concrete proposals that accurately capture the realities on the ground so that all parties involved are satisfied. and in the end, my fellow citizens, all that matters is the judgment we each receive from the citizens and farmers whose interests we are supposed to protect.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded today with this debate a long process which began 18 months ago. we listened to experts, went out into the field to learn about different realities, did studies, debated exhaustively among ourselves, and well! because animal welfare is a flag of this institution, present in many legislative and non-legislative documents, and the transport of live animals is clearly an inseparable part of animal welfare. i would like to thank my dear colleague daniel buda, the co-rapporteur, and my dear colleagues for their frank and cordial cooperation and constructive approach in seeking solutions which have enabled us to reach such a large number of commitments. each of us has a perspective on the best solutions for transporting animals and on choosing the best paths for system change. but there is something that unites us: is that none of us accept the reality of animal suffering during transportation that we have witnessed all too often. in the mandate of this commission we have had the responsibility to investigate alleged breaches in the application of union law on the protection of animals during transport and to produce a report with our findings. i think we have been extremely successful in this respect, with the report being adopted in committee with only one abstention. we identified the problems and limitations in the current application of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 right from the start. we find that there are violations that are often documented: transport of unfit animals, overcrowding of means of transport, inadequate drinking systems, transport under extreme temperatures, lack of emergency plans, use of means unsuitable for transported animals, among others. this is a situation in which there are different interpretations by the member states and a system of controls and penalties which is not homogeneous and which is therefore less efficient and effective. this is also an outdated regulation, with unclear forecasts, lacking concrete definitions, a regulation which is out of line in many respects with what science is telling us today, a regulation which fails to establish adequate provisions for some species, such as birds and rabbits, and for others it does not even present anything, as is the case with aquatic animals. a regulation with inadequate rules for highly vulnerable animals such as non-weaned animals and animals at the end of their productive lives and pregnant females. we therefore felt that more determined action was required in the light of these conclusions, and we have therefore put this into a document of recommendations to the european commission and the member states, which we are voting on this morning. the commitments presented by the rapporteurs are a path of unmistakable ambition, which make a real difference in defending animal welfare during transport. a path more than necessary, but one which we present as an ambition that develops in respect for geographical differences and limitations, differences in the development of infrastructure and the different capacities of the rural world to respond to sudden changes. and so we feel that in this ambitious path we must also take into account the social dimension of what we are proposing. how will all this affect the people who depend on these activities that take place in territories that are already as depressed as many of our rural areas? we need ambition and we need to bring about change, but in a socially conscious way that respects the cohesion of the territory. we therefore call on the european commission to present, by 2023 at the latest, an action plan that clearly identifies the driving forces behind animal transport and proposes concrete policy actions to reduce the need for transporting live animals by promoting their replacement by meat, carcasses and genetic material, while not forgetting the need to minimise the socio-economic impacts of such a change. the revision of the animal transport regulation is a necessity and an urgency, and is no longer even being discussed. we must have clearer guidance on the compulsory training of all those involved in transport. we need to have a control system that actually works and is a deterrent. we must have a more homogeneous framework of sanctions, with reinforced retrospective controls and based on a stronger common european framework. another key point concerns the need to improve various provisions relating to maritime transport, which is not adequately covered by the current regulation. but i would stress the importance of this means of transport for some countries, as i am sure you all know, even in terms of their internal territorial cohesion. we ask for a more careful and demanding look at animals that are not even covered by the current rules and at animals in vulnerable categories, such as animals at the end of their career, because of their lower economic value, which are in a situation of enormous vulnerability. i am also talking about pregnant animals and non-weaned animals. for all these animals, we propose amendments which make a substantial, not rhetorical, difference from the current framework for the protection of animal rights during transport. i would also like to stress, with regard to the travel times, which i think are very important, that the limitation of transport times to 8 hours for animals destined for slaughter, taking into account the specific geographical features, particularly of the outermost regions, would be an important step in reducing the number of animals transported. this should be accompanied by improvements in structural conditions, with the mobilisation of support to improve the network of local and regional mobile slaughterhouses. i would also stress, with regard to travel times, that in some cases it is technically impossible to go beyond what we are proposing and therefore unrealistic because of the geographical and infrastructural constraints of various regions, and in other cases it is even equivalent to creating internal barriers within member states, making it impossible to transport animals within those same countries. i would also remind you that there are no outermost regions without maritime transport. this, as far as transport of animals is concerned, is far from being possible in 24 hours. ladies and gentlemen, the work of this committee of inquiry is the work of all of us, which represents a very important contribution to the paradigm shift and which i believe will make a real difference in defending animal welfare during transport and in changing attitudes.
member of the commission. – madam president, as many of you know, animal welfare is a priority for the eu’s farm to fork strategy, reflecting the clear demand to improve quality of life for animals. it is also an important part of my mandate, and it is a personal priority for me. so i’m very pleased to have the chance to discuss the important topic of animal welfare during transport with you today. i welcome the extensive and investigative work done by the committee of inquiry on the protection of animals during transport (anit committee) during its mandate. in particular, i want to thank the committee chair, the honourable member ms metz, for her energy and commitment to this work, and the co-rapporteurs, honourable members ms carvalhais and mr buda, for their constructive and cooperative approach. i will use some words that you said today: we have to find solutions. the committee’s draft report and draft recommendations reflect all of this and show the excellent work of all the members of the anit committee. i want to assure you that the findings will feed into our deliberations and form a very important part of the input into our work on revising animal welfare legislation. as one of the anit committee members put it, these recommendations will form part of the foundations upon which we, together with the council and parliament, will build a new legislative framework. live animal transport is clearly an issue that we need to look at very closely and weigh up all the arguments in favour of change. the calls for this are getting louder. we hear them clearly, but we need to do this in the right way, with a complete set of information needed for legislative revision and for replying to all your recommendations. we need to gather knowledge on key issues, such as exports to non-eu countries, how to better protect vulnerable animals, how long journeys take and the best conditions, including the maximum temperatures in which animals should be transported. these are neither simple nor straightforward issues. in revising the legislation, we will have the perfect opportunity to better address them and we must, therefore, get these answers right. particularly relevant are the alternatives to the transport of unweaned calves and the transport of end-of-career cows. alongside all of this, we are conducting extensive consultation activities, and i’m pleased to have the opportunity today to share an update with you on the results that we have so far on the ongoing public consultation on the revision of eu animal welfare legislation. i have been informed that this has reached today a record of over 40 000 contributions. i think you would all agree with media members that this clearly shows how much animal welfare matters to our citizens. as the committee’s report rightly points out, many problems with the current legislation are linked to implementation and enforcement. this is why our priority will be to make the rules easier to enforce. our legislative proposal would take on board other important issues highlighted by the committee, for example, the development and use of digital tools to facilitate enforcement. let me be clear that we are not waiting for 2023 to tackle some of the points that you have highlighted. we are already working on measures to be adopted early this year to facilitate official checks on the transport of live animals by sea. these include enhanced checks on travel contingency plans, inspection teams comprising veterinarians and engineers, requirements for authorities to maintain records of weather forecasts and a common eu database to record results of official controls on livestock vessels, which can then be shared by all member states. in addition, this year, we will carry out audits on both livestock vessels and on the transport of unweaned calves by road. rest assured that we remain fully committed to improving the current legislative framework. we need to stop the suffering of animals during transport and live up to both our moral responsibilities and the demands of our citizens. i want to make sure that the revision will give us better implementation, better enforcement and higher welfare standards for animals during transport. and i consider, if i may say so, that we are all here on the same side for this.
i thank the commission, commissioner kyriakides, for this very encouraging address. i dare say that, even though i'm not taking a position on this conversation. we now move on to the group's speeches.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in recent months, the anit committee has heard from a wide range of experts, discussed ideas and sought solutions. we often disagreed on solutions. we agreed that the protection of animals during transport is non-negotiable. thanks to isabel, to daniel, but also to tilly! all transport operators must ensure that they correctly and fully implement the existing rules. the responsibility for the welfare of the animals is therefore shared by each individual along the chain. farmers must be able to raise the animals and guarantee their transportability and health. for many of these farmers, raising, breeding and selling their animals is also a way of life. it's like we used to do on the farm, animals first, family later. this is still the case for the majority of households and businesses throughout the eu. they rely on the transport companies to get their animals safely to their destination. unfortunately, the pictures and reports in the committee meetings have often shown us something cruel. some are implementing regulations or even exceeding legal standards. the others work as cheap labourers at the expense of the animals, taking the brunt of injuries and shortages. so here 's what i 'm saying . first of all, we want the uniform and full implementation of the existing rules, compliance with the rules on temperature and rest periods, priority to be given to the transport of genetic material and carcasses wherever possible, and special protection for unweaned calves and high-weight animals. i therefore appeal to the commission to take our recommendations seriously. we have already heard some positive news that it is revising the existing regulation on the basis of our proposals, in order to provide legal certainty for transport and the operators involved and to ensure animal welfare in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is of course welcome that this report and the recommendations to the commission have made a clear commitment to improving the conditions for the transport of animals, to specifying regulations on animal species, care, transport temperatures and requirements for transport systems, and to creating the basic conditions for monitoring animal transport. that is precisely why - and only because of this - i shall vote in favour of this report and the recommendations. but let 's not kid ourselves: even the report communicates the fact that the existing eu case law has not prevented the violations of animal welfare that are to be described as systematic and that an aggravation of a legal situation that is hardly observed anyway because it is easy to circumvent due to lack of control will not do much. the alleged interests of farmers who do not want to expose their animals to suffering, or the food situation in the case of the prohibition of live transport of animals for slaughter, as the rapporteur mr buda has just done, is completely unfair. i therefore ask you to support amendments which seek to limit transport times and to prohibit the unspeakable transport of animals by ship on old, worn-out barges. and what we need most urgently is a ban on the transport of live animals to third countries, especially when we know full well that at the end of a painful journey the end of hell is often not reached. the terrible suffocation deaths in ritual slaughter are often kept quiet out of a misguided sense of political correctness. this has to end.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. more than a million citizens have called on us to do more for animal welfare. that's why i'm here today. we have received impressive evidence in the committee of inquiry that the lack of clear transport rules and controls has catastrophic consequences for the animals. we have the opportunity today to reduce the transport time of our fellow creatures to eight hours on land and 24 hours at sea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the mass consumption of cheap meat, the desperation of farmers trapped in a cruel system of 'more and more and faster', the hauliers who exploit drivers to the point of exhaustion, or those who put enormous pressure on the authorities and veterinarians? i'm sure you don't want any of this either. i therefore urge you to vote with us for further restrictions on the transport of animals.
thank you very much, commissioner. i think the members appreciate that you take their speeches so seriously and then have a detailed comment on them. they will appreciate it even more if the commission really acts in the short term. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
before we get to the announcement of the results of the first round of voting today, i have two pieces of news: no objections were raised within the 24 hours period against the recommendations for decisions to raise no objections to two delegated acts submitted by the agri committee and announced at the opening of yesterday's meeting. in accordance with rule 111 (6) of the rules of procedure, the recommendations are therefore deemed to have been adopted. they shall be published together with the texts adopted.
i can also tell you that the political groups and the non-attached members have sent the president the appointments to the committees. the list of the names of the members of the committees shall be published on parliament's website.
mr president, indeed, i hereby request the referral back of the digital service act file to the committee for starting interinstitutional negotiations according to rule 59(4).
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are talking today about youth unemployment - a subject which illustrates the diversity of the labour markets in europe. the highest youth unemployment rate is in greece (39%, unbelievable), followed by spain and italy; the lowest rates are in the netherlands, austria and germany. i know why it's like that in germany. german youths are particularly bright, they like to go to school. it is a miracle of the german education system that anyone can study in germany. the traditional training places, where you get dirty and have to do physical work, are very unpopular. this is why the construction and catering industries, for example, have very few apprentices. the solution is to bring in poor migrants from all over the world, but it doesn't work very well. the right solution for me would be to encourage young greeks to study in germany, for example. this was all done ten years ago, the project was called the job of my life. there, spanish youths were recruited to train in germany. this project has failed spectacularly: almost no one has remained. so, the solution can't be to bring in poverty migrants from all over the world. we must promote the intra-european mobility of the workforce.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to start with a quote from a 16-year-old girl who came to us at a recording session at the bavarian youth circle. she said, "i can't go out and have my own experiences. all i have left is to read books about the lives of teenagers. i think adolescence is really a phase of life that is irreversible, experiences that you can only have at that stage, and that's why the frustration of youth is growing, and many feel that they have missed the best of times. so it's important that we actually do a solid catch-up program for these young people, not just symbolic gestures - a little more youth guarantee here and a little more actual programs there. and what that really means is that we need to provide investment to really give these young people a perspective for the future. to really build credibility - and it all starts with a first step - i also recommend that we say we're making sure that unpaid internships are put on a leash and that we're giving young people really paid opportunities as a stepping stone into the profession.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i congratulate you on your re-election. youth unemployment in the eu is 16.3%; in italy, it is 30%, in greece and spain it is 33%, and in some places it is over 40%. over three million young europeans are looking for work. at the same time, the eu has admitted five million unqualified asylum seekers since 2015. in germany there is a shortage of skilled workers and over 700 000 vacancies. young europeans are more likely to fill these posts than migrants. so take advantage of the eu's freedom of movement for people and give young people in southern europe in particular a new perspective! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in short, take the concerns of the citizens seriously. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the next item is the debate on the report by dimitrios papadimoulis, on behalf the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european central bank – annual report 2021 (2021/2063(ini)) (a9—0351/2021). i would like to remind members that for all the debates of this part-session there will be no catch—the—eye procedure, no blue cards will be accepted and, furthermore, as during recent part-sessions, remote interventions from parliament’s liaison offices in the member states are foreseen. i would also like to remind colleagues that interventions in the chamber will be made from the central rostrum and i therefore kindly invite you to keep an eye on the speakers’ list and to approach the rostrum when your speaking time is imminent.
the rapporteur. madam president, mrs lagarde, mr gentiloni, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this is a very important moment for us to be discussing this report, because its formulation coincides with three important parameters. the first is the positive policy of the european central bank in dealing with the pandemic crisis. the second event is the review of the european central bank's strategy after 18 years. the third is the one we have just mentioned: the 20th anniversary of the euro. the report notes that the monetary policy decisions of the european central bank to respond to the pandemic were a positive, important step, which had a positive impact on the euro area. the introduction of the pepp, the increase in the volume of markets, the increased flexibility in the bond market and the relaxation of eligibility criteria, the policy of basic interest rates contributed to the economic recovery, to the improvement of financing conditions, although this recovery was uneven and in some cases increased social and regional inequalities. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european central bank's (ecb's) monetary policy is based on the principle that the ecb's monetary policy is to be conducted in a manner that is consistent with the monetary policy of the member states. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, our partners and the econ committee secretariat for their cooperation during these difficult negotiations and to note with satisfaction that the report we are discussing today was adopted by the largest majority in the econ committee in recent years: 49 votes in favour, 8 against and one abstention. i would also like to express my hope that the house will support the text of the report with the same broad support and majority as that voted in committee. in the time that remains i would like to make a few points. i would also like to stress one point which concerns my own country, greece, mrs lagarde. the inclusion of greek bonds in the pepp programme was and is an important positive step. however, the issue remains that greek bonds are still ineligible under the public sector asset purchase programme, despite the significant progress achieved. in our report we are asking, by a very large majority, the ecb to review, during the relevant horizon of the relevant flexible reinvestments, what needs to be done and to provide specific recommendations so that greek bonds remain eligible and the recovery in my home country of greece is not jeopardised by a new round of austerity and a new debt crisis. in conclusion, i think it is very important to continue without retreat the positive steps in the ecb's action in combating the climate crisis, and also to get rid of dogmatic approaches to the approach to the principle of market neutrality. the ecb has already deviated from this principle on several occasions in order to achieve its objectives. we must continue with pragmatism and realism. finally, i think it is important to facilitate access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises, which is lacking in many countries, to finally complete, mr gentiloni, mrs lagarde and the council members who are absent, the european deposit insurance system, because without the third pillar there is no banking union, and to take further steps in the field of transparency, communication with citizens and gender equality within the european central bank.
president of the european central bank. madam president of the european parliament, mr commissioner for economic affairs, mr papadimoulis, rapporteur, honourable members of the european parliament, once again i am very pleased to be here in strasbourg, before you, to discuss the european central bank's annual report for the year 2020. let me continue in english. today's debate is an important pillar in the ecb's accountability relationship with this parliament. it is crucial for the ecb to explain its actions to the public and to you, as their elected representatives. but as i have said before, we need to be equally focused on listening, and it is in this spirit that i have read your report and that i look forward to hearing your views during today's debate. what i will do in these preliminary remarks in front of you is, first of all, outline our view of the current economic situation in the euro area and explain our monetary policy stance. i had the opportunity to discuss these issues last week in the context of the regular dialogue with the committee on economic and monetary affairs, better known as econ, chaired by mrs tinagli. i will then briefly discuss how the ecb's new strategy addresses some of the key points identified in your report and ensures that our monetary policy strategy is fit for purpose both for today and in the future. so let me turn to the economic outlook and our ecb monetary policy. recent data confirms that quarterly growth slowed to 0.3% in the final quarter of 2021, which still allowed gross domestic product to recover to its pre-pandemic level. the moderation in growth momentum has resulted mainly from the rapid spread of the omicron variant. the associated containment measures have dampened activity, particularly in consumer services such as travel, tourism, hospitality and entertainment. the current pandemic wave and associated restrictions are likely to continue to have a negative impact on growth at the start of this year, 2022. two other factors, namely supply bottlenecks and high energy costs, are also expected to dampen economic activity in the near term. however, the economic impact of the current pandemic wave appears to be less damaging to activity than previous ones. moreover, the aforementioned bottlenecks will still persist for some time, but there are signs that they may be starting to ease a bit. this will allow the economy to pick up strongly again later this year. inflation has risen sharply in recent months, and it further surprised on the upside in january, with the rate increasing to 5.1% from 5% in december. inflation is likely to remain high in the near term. energy prices, as you also highlight in your report, continue to be the main reason for the elevated rate of inflation. their direct impact accounted for over half of headline inflation in january, and energy costs are also pushing up prices across many sectors. food prices have also increased owing to seasonal factors, elevated transportation costs and the higher price of fertilisers. in addition, price rises have become more widespread with the prices of a large number of goods and services having increased markedly. financing conditions for the economy have remained favourable. while market interest rates have increased since december, bank funding costs have so far remained contained. bank lending rates to firms and to households continue to stand at historically low levels. turning now to the risk assessment, we continue to see the risks to the economic outlook as broadly balanced over the medium term. uncertainties related to the pandemic have abated somewhat. at the same time, geopolitical tensions have increased and persistently high costs of energy could exert a stronger than expected drag on consumption and on investment. the pace at which bottlenecks are resolved is also a further risk to the outlook for growth and inflation. compared with our december projections, risks to the inflation outlook are tilted to the upside particularly in the near term. if price pressures feed through into higher-than-anticipated wage rises or if the economy returns more quickly to full capacity, inflation could turn out to be higher. in a few weeks, the march ecb staff projections will provide an updated assessment, taking the most recent data into account. this will help the governing council better assess the implications of the surprisingly high december and january inflation figures for the mediumterm outlook. in particular, we will carefully examine how higher energy prices will transmit through the economy and affect the outlook overall. two channels could be at play, pulling inflation dynamics in different directions. on the one hand, rising energy costs can drive up prices directly by increasing the cost of production, as well as indirectly by having second-round effects on wages. on the other hand, they can have a negative impact on household incomes and the earnings of companies, thereby reducing economic activity and dampening the inflation outlook. in the past, the euro area has been vulnerable to the second channel as surges in energy prices weakened the spending power of households and reduced inflation over the medium term. obviously, in our assessment of the inflation outlook, we have to bear in mind that demand conditions in the euro area do not show the same signs of overheating that can be observed in other major economies. this increases the likelihood that the current price pressures will subside before becoming entrenched, enabling us to deliver on our 2% target over the medium term. indeed, while moving up over recent months, indicators of longerterm inflation expectations are consistent with these expectations. survey-based measures point to inflation returning to 2% by 2023 and remaining close to this level thereafter. market-based indicators have stabilized around levels somewhat below 2%. the solid anchoring of longterm inflation expectations in the euro area, which you also acknowledge in your report, is a reassuring development coming after a long period when they were overdue. to sum up, the euro area economy has continued to recover, although growth is expected to remain subdued in the first quarter of 2022. while the outlook for inflation is uncertain, it is likely to remain elevated for longer than previously expected, but to decline in the course of this year. at the governing council meeting earlier this month, we confirmed the decisions we took in december. accordingly, we will continue to reduce the pace of our asset purchases step-by-step over the coming quarters and we will end net purchases under the pandemic emergency purchase programme at the end of march. in view of the current uncertainty, we need more than ever to maintain flexibility and optionality in the conduct of monetary policy. our monetary policy is always data dependent, and this is all the more important in the situation we are facing at the moment. we will remain attentive to the incoming data and carefully assess the implications for the mediumterm inflation outlook. those implications are key parameters in our forward guidance. our forward guidance has several dimensions. there is a defined sequencing between the end of our net asset purchases and the liftoff date. a rate hike will not occur before our net asset purchases finish. moreover, there are three conditions that will have to be met before the governing council feels sufficiently confident that a tilt in our policy rate is appropriate. all three conditions are meant as safeguards against the premature increase in interest rates. finally, any adjustment to our policy will be gradual. let me now turn to the topic of how we are making our monetary policy strategy fit for today, but also for new challenges. last year, the ecb and the euro system at large concluded their first strategy review in almost two decades. i would like to reiterate my gratitude to the econ committee and all its members for their valuable input. i'm very pleased to read in your report that you welcome the outcome. our new strategy would ensure that we have a strong foundation to guide us in the conduct of monetary policy in the years to come. we are now working hard to put it into practice. i could discuss many areas in that strategy review, but i'm going to focus on only three that you highlighted in your report in which the review is having an impact on our daily work. the first area is how we take our monetary policy decisions. in your report, you highlight the importance of ensuring the necessity, suitability and proportionality of all our monetary policy measures. indeed, before taking any decision, the governing council conducts a careful evaluation of the effectiveness, the efficiency and the proportionality of its actions, including the potential side effects, based on an integrated assessment of all relevant factors. this assessment builds on a revised analytical framework, which brings together the economic analysis and the monetary and financial analysis as well. our new strategy recognises financial stability as a precondition for price stability and vice versa. in line with this, we undertook our first in-depth assessment of the interrelationship between monetary policy and financial stability at our last meeting in december. we will continue to do so twice a year going forward. the second area i would like to point out, which you also mentioned in the report, is the impact of climate change. i'm pleased that your report welcomes our action plan on how to incorporate climate change considerations in our monetary policy framework. i am equally pleased to tell you that the implementation of the climate change action plan is on track. the milestones for 2022 include a detailed plan for disclosure requirements in the collateral framework and asset purchases, a pilot stress test on the euro system balance sheet and proposals to adopt the framework of our corporate bond purchase programmes. we are also working, together with other central banks across the euro area, on new exploratory climate related statistical indicators, and we are adapting our macroeconomic models. integrating climate-related indicators and risks is not a distraction. it is essential to better understand how climate change is affecting the economy, is affecting the inflation outlook, is affecting monetary policy transmission and is affecting financial stability. so the third and last area that i'd like to touch on is how we communicate and engage with the people we serve and whom you represent. good communication is crucial for our policy, for our credibility and for the trust people have in us. but communicating well to different audiences is challenging, particularly in the euro area. i welcome the fact that the report encourages us to make further progress on this front. our aim is to ensure that markets, elected representatives like yourselves and the wider public better understand how we reach our decisions, the reasons behind these decisions and how they affect people's daily lives. in other words, we need to be clear about what we call the three as. first, aim for the target. we must be clear about our aim. our new symmetric inflation target of 2% over the mediumterm is simple, clear and easy to convey to the wider public. second, the assessment. we must be clear about our assessment. we need to clearly explain how we process incoming economic and financial data, what we judge to be short term movements and what we consider influential factors relevant for our mediumterm horizon. third: actions. we must also be clear about actions taken. our audience should be able to understand what we are trying to achieve with our measures, as well as why they are effective, efficient and proportionate to our aim. clearly communicating these three as to different audiences often means being more simple and more straightforward but being more simple doesn't mean that we should be simplistic. it means being more inclusive when we talk. following on from our strategy review, we are using clearer, more narrativedriven language, together with visuals that people can relate to. finally, in our communication, we need to be open about what we can and what we cannot do as a central bank. for example, our monetary policy cannot fill a pipeline with gas, cannot clear backlogs at ports and cannot train more lorry drivers. so let me conclude here. we are very well aware that many people across the euro area are concerned about the rising cost of living at the moment as you also highlight in your report and the burden is primarily borne, we know, by those with lower incomes who must face the daytoday hardship of having to cope with higher prices. we remain committed to delivering on our price stability mandate, as we have done over the past 20 years. our target is an inflation rate of 2% over the medium term. to achieve this, we will take the right actions, at the right time. but it is also a task to openly engage with people's concerns with regard to monetary policy. as i said when i first spoke to you here two years ago, the ongoing dialogue between the ecb and the european parliament is the key channel for this. independence and accountability are two sides of the same coin for the ecb. one will not exist without the other. with that in mind, i look forward to our exchange this afternoon and to the final resolution on the ecb's annual report.
member of the commission. – madam president, president lagarde, honourable members, it’s very important to discuss today the european central bank’s annual report, on the basis of your report. so i would like, first of all, to thank the rapporteur, dimitrios papadimoulis, and the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ committee) for their valuable assessment and reflections. the commission widely agrees with the general thrust of the committee’s report. as you know, the eu economy lost momentum in late 2021 following a strong rebound in the previous two quarters. this slowdown can be attributed to the omicron variant and to the continued global supply-side disruptions. furthermore, a recent increase in energy prices and inflationary pressures could weigh on economic activity. so the risks for growth in our forecast are balanced and the risk for inflation is tilted to the upside. but the fact that we have this high inflation doesn’t mean that we currently see compelling evidence suggesting that high inflation could become entrenched. so, in our winter forecast, inflation is expected to reach 3.5% in 2022 before easing in 2023 and we share the ecb’s clear assessment of the current situation. we also agree with the econ committee’s report that the ecb’s policy response to the covid-19 crisis was effective. furthermore, let me say that fiscal and monetary policies have acted as strategic complements in their autonomy, of course, in stabilising economic activity against the adverse effects of the pandemic. as regards fiscal policy for next year, the commission will provide member states with guidance in the coming weeks to facilitate the coordination. furthermore, the commission will share orientation on possible changes to the economic governance framework with the objective of achieving a broad-based consensus, well in time for 2023 – the year when the general escape clause is expected to be ‘untriggered’, so to say. the econ committee’s report further discusses the international role of the euro, digital payments, euro counterfeiting – topics we consider very important. the commission and the ecb aim to ensure a strong european digital finance sector and a well-integrated payment sector. in this context, both institutions are jointly examining the possibility of a digital euro. the essential elements of the digital euro need to be set out in a legislative proposal, on which the colleges later will have the last word. our goal is to table legislation in early 2023, preceded by a consultation. the euro in the digital era would be a way to also deliver on the international role of the euro agenda. thank you, and i welcome the debate today and the discussion we will have on this occasion.
before we continue the debate, i now open today's voting. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the voting is open from 6 to 7.15 p.m. the same voting procedure as at the previous partsession shall apply. the immunity issues are voted on by secret ballot. members may vote in the conventional manner. however, the ballot paper you receive and have to sign does not show how you voted, only that you voted. all other votes shall be by roll call. explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. explanations of vote of up to 400 words will be accepted. i declare the voting open. you can vote until 19.15. the results of the votes will be announced tomorrow at 8.30 a.m.
we now continue our debate on the report by mr dimitrios papadimoulis (a9-0351/2021).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the role of the european central bank in addressing the economic consequences of the pandemic crisis has proven to be of strategic importance in 2021. the euro area economies have recovered rapidly and dynamically, also taking advantage of the monetary policy implemented. the commission has also been working on a number of proposals for the introduction of a european social area. the ecb's contribution is reflected in the 2021 annual report, with most meps viewing the work of the administration positively. greece remains one of the weak links in the euro zone, so i would like to stress that the lagarde choices in the european central bank and the one-year draghi presidency of italy contribute to stability and create the conditions for us to overcome the difficulties, provided, of course, that we do what we have to do. i am obviously in favour of the papademosulis proposal for special treatment, i would say, of greek bonds. we do not want a new greek crisis, because there is no greek crisis in these cases; there is a european crisis. the european central bank operates in a constantly changing international environment, which since the summer of 2021 has begun to send warning signals. inflation is proving to be higher and longer lasting than originally estimated. in some european markets there are conditions of the so-called 'property bubble'. a significant part of the emerging new type of financial system is not subject to the strict control of the ecb, as are systemic banks. so along with the positive work of 2021, came new challenges for the european central bank. it faces the difficult task of effectively promoting the statutory inflation target, but without undesirable economic side effects, such as the potential economic recovery being halted by high interest rates. i want to thank mr papadimoulis for the very good work he has done, coordinating all the political forces in a creative way to reach a positive result. i would also like to assure mrs lagarde, whom i congratulate on her work, that you can expect from us both constructive criticism and firm support for your strategically important work.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, (to mrs lagarde and mr gentiloni in english) on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the euro, i would like to stress the important role of the european central bank in the recovery and strengthening of the euro, especially in difficult times and indeed in times of doubt. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. but there are important steps that remain, and some of them, the most important ones, are in this report. i will mention only a few. the impact of the pandemic and the rise in inflation, especially in energy prices, is a matter of concern to everyone. we welcomed the rapid response of the european central bank and we continue to support the gradual, deliberate withdrawal of measures, taking into account economic and social implications, with the primary aim of avoiding a new recession. moreover, this flexibility must be channelled into the real economy. thirdly, for a fairer competition, mrs lagarde and mr commissioner, we need a european deposit guarantee at last. the issues of climate change and equal representation of women are also raised. we call on the european central bank to take further steps. finally, there is the question of abusive clauses: there are member states - one of them is cyprus - where banks, unfortunately, still use abusive clauses in their contracts with consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. in conclusion, i would like to highlight the excellent work of mr papademos, who has produced a balanced report. i think it is the duty of all of us, or at least of the majority, to support this text as it has been adopted in the house.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are giving in our report today the european parliament's assessment of the policy of the ecb, and that is also very important, because monetary policy is relevant. the citizens of the eurozone have seen this clearly in recent years, and they see it every day when they stand at the pump or go grocery shopping. the ecb revised its strategy last summer. so it's been really important, it's been a very, very important process. and they've taken the important issue of inflation, inflation framing, and they've taken the complicated communication from close to under two percent to just two percent. i cannot support this, but i think it is correct and easier to calculate to talk about a flat 2% inflation. but if you think about what that means for wealth, 10 times 10 in just 10 years, that's a case. what was not so clear last autumn when we were negotiating the report is what inflation is now in december and january. we had a really good climate in the committee negotiations. i want to thank you for that. i therefore welcome the epp's proposals and we will take them into account and support them. because inflation, it jumped to over five percent in december. i would like to ask you, madam lagarde, to take inflation seriously, because it will not go away on its own. and we also realize from the pressure that the fed is putting on us by raising interest rates that this is not a game where we set the rules of the game, but that the currency is in international competition. and we need to show people that we mean business.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the price increase is hitting people in europe right in the heart of their wallets and is also hitting industry, small and mediumsized enterprises and start-ups. inflation was 5.1% in january and the european central bank expects the rate of inflation to remain high in the short term. one of the main causes of inflation is higher energy prices, which of course also have an additional impact on the prices of goods and services. and it is clear that the ecb's monetary policy has no direct influence on the rising prices and supply shortages in the energy sector. on the contrary, too rapid and too strong a rise in key interest rates can threaten the recovery and jobs, as happened in 2011 with the euro crisis. it is good that the ecb is not now giving in too quickly to the calls and pressures from outside for interest rate increases. we need the right solutions instead, namely more speed and more energy, more ambition for an energy transition and for a green transformation in europe. this is the way to act independently of external price shocks that are being inflicted on us in europe. and the ecb can do something proactive about climate change within the framework of its mandate. and in this sense, the ecb's strategy review 2021 is clearly the right step in the right direction. thank you very much, madame lagarde.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, president lagarde recently referred in an interview to not being prepared to take a turn in fifth gear. now you’re absolutely right to do that, but we all know that the car that has a fifth gear also has a fourth, a third, a second and a first gear. and in terms of adapting its policy to the new environment of high and still rising inflation, the european central bank’s car at the moment is, i think, fair to say, in first gear. some speeding-up is urgently needed and not so much because of the inflation numbers themselves but because of two related phenomena. first of all, inflationary expectations – consumers, producers, investors are rapidly adjusting upwards their inflationary expectations and i think a significant move in monetary policy is needed to avoid further escalation of these inflationary expectations. secondly, insufficient immediate action might and probably will necessitate much higher interest rates in the future than if indeed immediate action were to be taken now.
madam president, please. the european central bank is responsible for safeguarding price stability. and the current inflation data shows that we should be on our toes because food prices, and especially energy prices, have gone so high. unfortunately, brussels is driving up prices with its ideological energy policy, putting the burden of greening on the population, which is a serious mistake and discredits such an important green policy. at least the ecb can be expected to make common sense prevail. mrs. lagarde, please resist the pressure from the left. greening is not the job of the federal reserve! you can contribute to stability by keeping prices under control and thereby creating a favourable investment environment. it would also take common sense to know when we're going to get back to the rules, both in monetary and fiscal policy. some people would like to perpetuate the one-time recovery fund, endlessly indebting the union. you know, the left always likes to control other people's money. the relaxation was good, it helps the growth-oriented recovery, but we can't live forever on the money of future generations! the fiscal rules will also have to be adjusted in the spirit of this and strictly in the context of the 27th circuit. and one last note: madam president, i sincerely hope that you will always be able to work with the best financial minds and experts in europe, regardless of whether they are men or women.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to draw your attention to four points in particular. i remember very well when the train arrived at midnight at vienna's westbahnhof more than 20 years ago and we were able to receive the euro. it was a political project for all of us to unite and integrate europe, to strengthen growth, stability and prosperity. it became the second most powerful currency in the world. i remember very well that ten years before that, german chancellor helmut kohl said in the german bundestag: 'with the euro, european integration is irreversible, because if you have a common currency, you have to develop the european union into a political union.' what does that tell us? the euro is not ready. like any other currency, the euro needs a common economic, budgetary, fiscal, investment, social and employment policy. monetary policy alone cannot do this, but only political will. and jacques delors said in this house 30 years ago that we need determination, solidarity, and sometimes a little daring. let us finally do what we have known for 30 years that the euro needs: a common, deepened budgetary, economic and monetary union, a banking and capital markets union.
madam president, commissioner, madam president of the ecb, i would like to thank you for your reply. we have discussed this report at an opportune time and i would of course like to congratulate mr papadimoulis and the other alternative rapporteurs, especially mr costas mavridesa, on this report and, like them, i hope that this house will approve it as it has been approved by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. just a few minutes ago we were celebrating the 20th anniversary of the euro. twenty years of success where a new generation of europeans has become accustomed to living with one currency, with a common currency, with the single currency, but also twenty years where there has been some error in the management of monetary policy. in my view, one of those mistakes was made in april 2011, when the then ecb president trichet decided to raise interest rates, supposedly to avoid possible second-round effects. i think this example is timely and necessary at this time, when we see prices rising and, as the president of the ecb has said, fundamentally, mainly because of the price of energy or bottlenecks in the production structure and in the rates of recovery. i hope we will keep this mistake in mind as we continue to monitor the recovery in the coming months.
madam president, commissioner, we are all concerned about the impact that the price increase, and particularly the electricity bill, is having on some of our fellow citizens. but to conclude from this that monetary stimulus must be withdrawn and interest rates raised, as the conservative groups seem to suggest, is profoundly wrong. as the president has very well said, interest rates cannot drive the price of fossil fuels and therefore that is not the way to tackle this problem. on the other hand, if we now repeat the mistakes we made - as was now being said - in april 2011, by raising rates and withdrawing stimulus, we will endanger the recovery, jeopardise the good employment performance in the euro area and re-create the problems of spreads in different member states. so that is not the solution at all. on the other hand, there is something that the ecb can do in the medium and long term to combat this energy price - which accounts for 50% of the price increase - which is to accelerate the ecological transition from the monetary policy instruments that are available, for example by ensuring a greater ecological perspective in the centres or, for example, by withdrawing the purchases of fossil fuels that are still made on a massive basis through asset purchase programmes. that is what the ecb should do and not withdraw stimulus, which would now be a profound mistake.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 30 years of maastricht and 20 years of the euro: the ecb welcomes the euro as a major step towards integration and a guarantee of europe's economic strength. but there is no mention of the lisbon agenda, which aims to make the eu the world's most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010. what hubris! the eurozone has had the lowest growth rate in the developed world for years. in high technology, we are lagging behind china and the united states. unemployment remains high and would be even higher if the migrants were not cheating. and the euro itself is the most expensive currency in the world, which needs to be saved by hundreds of billions of dollars a year. the german saver alone has been costing the euro 2021 around 116 billion euros, because inflation is now five and a half percent in switzerland it is 1.5 percent. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial regulation, which is to be published in the official journal of the european union. conclusion: the euro is a path of confusion and confusion, as are your climate-saving fantasies and unskilled mass migration. my colleague admonished me to be gentle today. i did my best.
president, when we started the euro 20 years ago, we were promised that it would be a strong and reliable currency, guaranteed by a robust stability and growth pact. this is no longer the case. the eurozone has become a battlefield the frugal north versus the thrifty south. the european central bank, meanwhile, has a price stability objective, but is increasingly politically active. as inflation hits the eurozone and the debts of some member states reach unsustainable proportions, the ecb is focusing on climate change risks, whereas i believe that task lies with insurers, credit assessors and advisory agencies. in the netherlands, inflation was 6.4% in december. house prices, which are not themselves in inflation, have risen by 20% last year a bubble that is about to burst! mrs lagarde, i understand that you work for the entire eurozone. but for the dutch, the savers, the pensioners, the young people, this is no longer working. i urge you not to forget them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that this debate today again shows very clearly how important it is that the european central bank is politically independent. i would like to mention two aspects of this report: first, of course, inflation. in fact, we must speak very seriously about the serious consequences of the low-interest rate policy, because high inflation and constantly high inflation expectations are of course dangerous for the recovery and, above all, for social peace in europe. and it's not just energy prices, as has sometimes been suggested here. because core inflation, which is inflation excluding energy and food, was also 3.7 percent in december. and now it's good that the ecb is independent. and that is why the politicians should be more cautious in their assessment of the low interest rate policy. i also have full confidence in the european central bank and its experts, but it is important, madam president - and you have mentioned this - that you communicate in public and explain why you have come to this conclusion and now pursue the interest rate policy as you do. i think that's very important for the acceptance of our currency. and then again, this is important. the ecb's main mandate is monetary stability. if the left and the green parties are calling for climate policy, they are wrong. the european central bank is not a climate investment bank. so what the european central bank is doing to change the risk assessment in the context of climate change is exactly right, but what the report also calls for that the european central bank is actively pursuing climate policy is wrong, because it is outside of its mandate. in conclusion, monetary policy cannot be a substitute for sound economic policies in the member states. i am sorry that the report does not contain this clarity, but i am very pleased to know that you, madam president, and your institution are also on my side on this point.
i am a flemish national and therefore a belgian national. belgium has the fourth highest inflation rate in europe, already. public expenditure is expected to reach 55% in 2026, the highest in europe and soon among all industrialized countries. the budget deficit is expected to reach 4.9% in 2023, the highest in europe this year. belgium should also allow only greece, italy and portugal to lead on the level of public debt. why is belgium doing so badly for a western european country? well, i tell you what. for the same reason that the eurozone is doing badly. belgium was founded for political reasons, ignoring economic reality and the underlying differences. the wealth of differences in the eurozone was also crammed into the crusher of convergence policy, with all the consequences that this entailed. performing countries are independent and culturally homogeneous countries where the same people are responsible for spending and income. the eurozone, meanwhile, was to hide its failures deeply in debt. but citizens, and especially young people, are facing the consequences of your debt-driven planned economy: the european union is not a party to the treaty on european union, but it is a party to the treaty on european union. and we are now facing your inflationary pandemic, which will soon lead to chaos as great as your megalomania. we will of course not approve your meaningless ecb report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the inflation rate has increased significantly. some of the causes are temporary. the inflation rate will therefore decline again in the course of the year. but we will have to deal with a much higher level of inflation in the foreseeable future than in previous years. this is why some are calling for the ecb to act now. many people say that interest rates must rise at last to get things back on track. sounds simple, but the world is not that simple. an adequate response to rising inflation also requires addressing a structural deficit of monetary union. at that time, only monetary policy was communal, while economic and financial policy was left to the national authorities. today 's winning numbers: the ecb's room for manoeuvre in the fight against inflation is considerably increased if, as a first step, reform of the european fiscal and debt rules ensures that the cyclical policy capacity of all member states is maintained and the necessary increase in investment, in particular to address climate change, is guaranteed.
mr. president, today shareaction announced that the major european banks have invested some 50 billion euros in oil and gas extraction. what do they think? the science is very clear: to meet the paris goals, we have to end this oil and gas extraction. and we want to achieve those goals! so, oil and gas extraction, either through a carbon price or through regulation, must be stopped. that's a billion-dollar threshold for the investors. but banks keep making these bets because they think, with heads i win, with tails you lose. because if banks get into trouble, the taxpayer gets the credit. the ecb can intervene, with mandatory transition plans for banks, with additional capital requirements for these destructive bets. with 20 years of the euro, the mind goes back to mario draghi's "whatever it takes". so, mrs lagarde, the question for you is: are you also willing to do everything to guide us through this climate crisis of destructive betting?
member of the commission. – madam president, we all know that we have a historic challenge ahead of us, which is to transform the rebound of our economies into durable, sustainable and stable growth. i think this discussion shows with this challenge, first, the awareness of the importance of the european central bank in this environment, in the framework we have ahead of us. second, that we can’t ask everything to be addressed and solved by monetary policy. so we also are asked to address the problems of the coordination of our fiscal policies, and the discussion going on is necessary to strengthen also the potentiality of monetary policy. third, i have to say that i feel reassured by the gradual and evidence—based approach illustrated by president lagarde, and especially by the autonomous way the ecb will take its decision in the coming weeks.
president of the european central bank. – madam president, well, first of all, thank you very much to all of you, and thank you for your comments, for your concerns and for sharing them in this very well-managed organisation – if i may say madam president, on this occasion. i would like to not answer all of your questions, because there are too many of them, but i would like to focus on three key areas where i would like to give you some feedback. one is i would like to identify yet again for you, what matters and what is the framework within which we make monetary policy decisions because i’ve heard here and there concerns about independence, about the mandate, about the focus, and i would like to clarify that one more time. the second item that i would like to also quickly point you to is the fact that a lot of the actions that we’ve taken in the last couple of years have actually benefitted smes. i’ve heard here and there that the action benefits large corporate accounts and not so much the real economy, and i think that that stands to be corrected. and third, i would like to make a few points in relation to climate change and how it actually impacts our monetary policy, both in terms of stance and transmission. so, on the first one, which is the universe within which we make our decisions. we are guided by a number of things that you are familiar with. the first one, which is the sort of foundation for the action, is our mandate, which is price stability as a primary mandate with secondary objectives, but secondary objectives without prejudice to the first objective, which is price stability. so that’s number one. number two, we spent nearly 18 months – all of us, governors of all the 19 national central banks and members of the executive board of the ecb trying to identify what our strategy was, what our objectives were, what our measurements were, what our tools were, and we reached a unanimous consent around our strategy review. so we know quite well what our objective is in terms of how we measure it. and that’s the point that i made earlier in my introductory remarks when i referred to simple communication around the objective, which is this 2% symmetric medium term. the third item, which is important as well, which guides us and which is relatively technical but also pretty straightforward, is our forward guidance. and our forward guidance in relation to rates includes three particular components: are we on target, well ahead of our horizon? is it going to be durable so that at the end of the horizon, we will be on target? and are we confident that today the progress that’s made will take us to that target? that’s our forward guidance and it’s helping us identify whether we are on target for the medium term, as we have identified in our strategy. the other element of forward guidance, which deals with the next point that i want to make, is the sequence, and that is the forward guidance that we’ve identified in terms of when do we look at interest rates relative to asset purchases? well, we complete net asset purchases and only then do we look at interest rate hikes. so we have these elements that actually guide us in order to make decisions. final point, which is very important, is that the decisions we make are data-dependent. it cannot be just on the fly. it cannot be a political decision. it has to be rooted in data and determined by data. and it will be so in that sequential and gradual way that i have tried to identify in my introductory remarks. second point where i wanted to come back briefly, the two key instruments – there were others – but the two key instruments that we have used during the pandemic were the pandemic emergency purchase programme (pepp) and the targeted longer-term refinancing operations (tltros). well, the volumes that have been deployed, particularly under the tltros clearly benefited smes. large corporate accounts have the technical skills, the expertise, understanding to go out on markets. smes, particularly the small ones, they don’t have that option in many instances. so what do they do? they actually go to their banks. and as you all know, europe and the euro area is largely dependent for its financing of its economic operations on banking support. smes have had the great benefit of tltros during this whole period of time. final point, because there have been many issues that were raised in relation to climate change, and i did tell you that we were on schedule, with reference to our action plan. so i would like to tell you and to share with you what it means, because being on schedule supposes that we all know inside-out what the action plan is, which is not necessarily the case. so what does that mean? it includes actually a lot of work that we do together with the commission and together with you, the european parliament, and where you play a critical role. the corporate sustainability reporting directive (csrd), the taxonomy regulation and the regulation on sustainability-related disclosures in the financial services sector are going to help us a great deal in properly managing the risks that we have on our balance sheet and actually expecting from banks in particular that they do comply with disclosure requirements. you have a key role to play to facilitate the implementation of the ecb’s action plan by ensuring a swift implementation of the relevant legislation. in particular, any delay in the implementation or the transposition of the csrd might have a knock on effect on the timeline of the ecb action. so in that respect, we very much rely on the speed at which you can operate in order to, ourselves, apply those criteria and those disclosure requirements throughout our own activity. so, rest assured that we are driven, dedicated to one mandate, which is that of price stability, but that we have to be very mindful of how climate change impacts the action that we have to take. we are not in the driving seat. you are, governments are. but, the central banks that are members of the euro system and the ecb at its heart, are very keen and have actually unanimously approved the fact that climate change is one of the components that we have to take into account for monetary policy determination for the macroeconomic framework and obviously for the supervision of the banking institution that we supervise throughout the european union.
the rapporteur. madam president, mrs lagarde, thank you for your contribution and for your positive comments on the report we have prepared in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i would like to thank you, mr gentiloni, and my colleagues, because all the speeches, including those critical of the report, have shown that through the exchange of views in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we have achieved to a very large extent what is described by a word of greek origin: synthesis of views. the european parliament must play an even more active role, because what we are seeing today is the need to coordinate monetary policy with fiscal policy, with full respect for the independence and the important role of the european central bank. the debate, and our report underlines this, has shown the need to learn from the mistakes of the past; not to 'kill' the sustainable recovery, not to undermine the objectives we have all set ourselves together by creating and activating the recovery and resilience fund. it is clear that we are all concerned about the extremely high rates of inflation and their consequences, especially on the poorest sections of the population. however, a hasty and rapid rise in interest rates will not lower fuel prices; on the contrary, it may hinder, undermine the sustainable growth, resilience and price stabilisation that a comprehensive approach requires. in the context of these considerations, i welcome the proposal by the european central bank to create a central budgetary authority and i consider it particularly important that the commission publish without delay its proposals for changing the framework for economic governance during the suspension of the stability pact. delaying is not helping. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2022. i would like to thank all the members who have spoken and made their views known, but of course i would like to thank in particular mrs lagarde and mr gentiloni. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the coronavirus pandemic is posing challenges to europe's economy similar to those of the 2008/09 economic crisis. although the union's economic performance reached pre-pandemic levels in the third quarter of 2021, the rapid spread of the new variant of omicron has put economic growth on a downward trajectory once again. it is essential to deal with high inflation in europe properly! i welcome the efforts to review the monetary policy of the european central bank, as supportive fiscal policies and socially balanced reforms are needed. it is unfortunate that in my country, hungary, economic policy is not shaped according to european standards. a few days ago, hungarian inflation hit another peak, according to ksh data, consumer prices were on average 7.9% higher than a year earlier. this is untenable! as a member of the european parliament for the democratic coalition, i am convinced that the economic policy challenges of the covid-19 crisis can only be met effectively by a joint european response. as a hungarian representative, i will continue the fight for the introduction of the euro!
the next item is the report (a9-0296/2021) by mr decerle, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the implementation of the report on the welfare of farmed animals (2020/2085 (ini)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, last month in this chamber i was here, we discussed together animal welfare during transport. today i am pleased to be here with you again to discuss another important aspect of animal welfare. i have stressed on a number of occasions, as i’m sure many of you recall, that animal welfare is a commission priority in our farm to fork strategy. more than that, it is for myself a personal priority. not only does it have serious ethical dimensions, but it also reflects clear demands from citizens for the highest welfare standards possible. and these demands are becoming stronger by the day. so let me start by welcoming this parliament’s implementation report on farm animal welfare. this report is very relevant for two reasons: firstly because of its timing, because we are continuing our deliberations to revise eu legislation on animal welfare; and secondly, because the broad scope of the report will provide useful input in that process. we have been working hard to lay solid foundations for the revision, in the form of a fitness check of the existing legislation and the impact assessment addressing the environmental, social and economic impacts of the legislative proposal. in doing so, i believe that we have taken the holistic approach that this house has been asking for. in parallel, the european food safety authority, efsa, is putting in place another foundation stone for the revision, namely the scientific opinions on the welfare of several animal species. these will cover issues such as animal welfare indicators and options for housing systems, and additionally we are also carrying out extensive consultation activities. the recent public consultation, for which we received almost 60 000 inputs, is one example. we are determined to bring about positive change in this important area and are listening very carefully, because every single opinion matters in this process. honourable members, as i mentioned a moment ago, your report deals with many issues that the revision will have to cover. i am very aware of the multidimensional nature of animal welfare and the complexity of possible options, and your report reflects these well. we do not yet have all the necessary information we need for revision and the reply to your recommendations. however, i can assure you that we are working hard to find these appropriate solutions, and the findings of ongoing scientific studies and impact assessments will help fill any gaps. as we all know, the most recent legislation on animal welfare was adopted around 15 years ago. during that time, many aspects of our relationship towards animals and the food they produce have changed dramatically. these aspects are driving us to look at a number of new elements and take a more species-specific approach, as well as broadening the legislation to other species. we all know that if we improve animal welfare, we also improve animal health. this decreases the use of medicines in animals and directly supports our efforts to deal with what we call the ‘silent pandemic’ – that of antimicrobial resistance. we are also conscious of our obligations and commitments to support our farmers. and i am pleased that your draft report includes recommendations on animal welfare labelling. looking also at last year’s council conclusions on this topic, i find your recommendations to reflect the broad consensus that the eu has to act and adopt a relevant legislative framework. it should be consistent with the forthcoming proposal on sustainable food systems, labelling and empowering eu consumers to make informed animal welfare choices when they buy food. and on top of that, it needs to offer farmers incentives to apply welfare standards to go beyond what is required by law. ultimately, it should guarantee a level playing field for all business operators, so that animal welfare claims are both comparable and well substantiated. this should also apply to products coming from outside the european union. consumers have a right to know that these products come from animals raised in accordance with our rules. so we will take note of your recommendations. we will present a proposal on animal welfare labelling to you, together with the revision of our animal welfare legislation, before the end of 2023. and in ending, honourable members, i know that i can count on you to be as supportive and constructive as always in the work that we undertake together, and after all, i believe that our aims are the same: better welfare for animals, better information for consumers, and also better rewards for business operators.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. what do farmers need to do their job for animal welfare? they need the same things as any other profession: fewer obstacles, fewer barriers, less bureaucracy. the following principle must apply: first the animals, then the papers, because good work has to be visible and transparent. i therefore call for compulsory labelling of behaviour and origin in europe. we need benchmarking. good work and more performance must be rewarded in the market. higher standards in europe cannot be sold out and imported through leakage effects. it needs fairness in competition and animal welfare. so let us not throw a manure fork at our farmers when they are facing a cliff. farm to fork has to work differently. what good is a pig's ringtail if there are no customers or lawsuits for animals that were delivered with tails that were too long? so what is urgently needed is a team with safety ropes, not with penalties and controls, a team with the commission at the head, which empowers, activates and motivates our farmers. because only by supporting our farmers will we get any closer to our goal of greater animal welfare. (the president cut off the speaker) the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. so let's put our money on one welfare, on animal welfare and on farmer welfare.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs o'reilly. i really want to thank you for your tireless work, for your complete transparency. they want to open the window wide so that citizens can really see how decisions are made. some people just want to open a crack in it so they can take a peek inside. but we see how seriously you take your work, and i think that's important. i listened to your presentation. in fact, 2020 was a very special year, and we had to act fast. and yet it's important that transparency is maintained and that you also have clear communication, because without that, we're not going to achieve democratic resilience. and the currency for that is really trust. so i want to thank you again for really putting your finger in the wound and insisting that the contracts with the pharmaceutical companies really create clarity, because otherwise it will only support conspiracy myths and - i think - also promote fake news. we can't let that happen. therefore, the future is made of courage. you've had enough of this. with a small office, but still a big job. and you have our full support as the s&d group.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur morten petersen and all the other co-rapporteurs for the good cooperation and the cooperative atmosphere on this important topic of 'renewable offshore energy'. when most people think of offshore, they think of offshore wind farms, but offshore is so much more: there are now floating wind farms, there is the use of wave energy, there are osmotic power plants, there are thermal power plants, there are floating solar power plants, there are tidal turbines. our oceans offer incredible potential to harness clean, low-cost energy. i am therefore glad that we have stated in our report that nature reserves must be off limits. because we have enough room. we just have to use it wisely. this requires good planning, and above all joint planning by the member states, which saves time, money and resources. and in a common electricity market, there is no point at all if offshore generation and grid expansion are not coordinated. the only way to meet our climate targets is to massively expand renewables. and that's why in this report, we're calling for at least 70 gigawatts offshore by 2030 and a total target of 340 gigawatts. this means a sixfold increase in stocks in eight years. yes, it is ambitious and requires investment. but let us invest in energy that does not require fuel and that cannot be affected by geopolitical upheavals. renewable energy cannot be turned into a commodity or a pawn in power politics. they are given to us every day, every week, every year. if the proposals we make in this report had been addressed earlier, we would not be complaining about high energy prices these days, nor would we be afraid of sitting in the cold and in the dark. it is therefore all the more important that the commission addresses the key points as soon as possible and translates them into legislative proposals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. unlike many of my predecessors here, i have serious concerns about the further expansion of offshore wind energy, not only in terms of fisheries and environmental protection, as has already been mentioned, but also in terms of the development of energy prices. the cost of offshore wind energy is also not competitive and must be supported by expensive subsidies, which only further distorts the market. let's look at the actual numbers. the fit for 55 package calls for 60 gigawatts by 2030 alone. we currently have a production of 12 gigawatts. the investment for a single gigawatt is, in a good way, 2.5 billion euros, in a practical, realistic case, about 4 billion euros. the enlargement to 2030 would require an additional investment of between 120 and 192 billion euros, which we want to pay to our citizens who are already crying out for electricity, because what they are really after is not affordable energy but megaprojects run by a small lobby that is getting smaller every day.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2022.
the next item is the report by mrs danuta maria hübner on the evaluation of the implementation of article 50 teu (2020/2136 (ini)) (a9-0357/2021). we're having trouble with the sound.
danuta, we will have to go to the next speaker because we have a technical issue. i’m sorry, but we will come back to you. the alternative is that maybe the commissioner takes the floor first. would that be ok for you?
unfortunately, the technical issue with the studio in brussels could not be fixed so we cannot switch over to danuta hübner yet. we will have to continue with the next report. (the short presentation was suspended)
the next item is the report by mr chastel on the implementation of the sixth vat directive: what is needed to close the vat gap in the union? (2020/2263 (ini)) (a9-0355/2021).
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2022.
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. dealing with the implementation of article 50 of the eu treaties is a great opportunity to remember how you drove the british out of the eu. the british have not decided out of the blue that they should try again on their own, but you have made the british fools of themselves with your intolerance and your unpleasant tendency to make everything look like a big deal. you couldn't stand the british wanting a different europe than you. just as you cannot stand the fact that the poles and the hungarians want a different europe. but instead of learning from brexit, you continue to do exactly as before, and even intensify your destructive course: with your recent action against hungary and poland you are trying to undermine the democratic constitutions of these two member states and are provoking the will of these two countries, just as you have provoked the will of germany when you initiated infringement proceedings against the federal republic of germany over the judgment of the federal constitutional court on the ecb's bond-buying programme. you are going beyond your powers and turning the house of the european union upside down.
the next item is the report by mr ferber on the impact of national tax reforms on the eu economy (2021/2074 (ini)) (a9-0348/2021).
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2022.
the next item is the briefing by ms cseh on the challenges facing urban areas in the aftermath of the covid-19 crisis (2021/2075 (ini)) (a9 0352/2021).
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 february 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure). they're called "one-minute executions". i would like to make a special point. i would also like to point out that you can make your contribution to the debate from your seat for one minute.
i have to say, madam president, millions of people are taking to the streets worldwide, and as in 1989 in the gdr, so today for freedom and democracy. and rightly so! in germany, the blanket ban on demonstrations by the anti-action clientele revives the totalitarian claim to the interpretative sovereignty of the gdr's state security. federal interior minister faeser tweets that one can express one's opinion without meeting, and in doing so simply erases the guaranteed right of assembly. and when freedom, democracy and the rule of law are threatened in the heart of europe, this house is not worth a single debate. how shameful! i am not prepared to discuss whether and under what circumstances citizens can be given back their freedom. ladies and gentlemen, freedom is something you can talk about or have. so everyone is free to go for a walk with anyone, anywhere, at any time. walking in the fresh air is also healthy. and on monday nights, i hear you're supposed to meet a lot of nice people. i'll see you at the walk. i'll invite you all to my house.
i have to say, madam president, the eu is planning a new eu migration pact with fast asylum procedures, new access routes for migrants, more family reunification and more reception capacity through redistribution. this means tens of millions of new migrants by 2040, because climate change and abortion rights are also supposed to be grounds for asylum. all this, mrs von der leyen said, was what the people wanted. - you did? according to a survey commissioned by my colleagues at id and myself, less than a quarter of eu citizens know about eu plans. so 90 percent want more data on the cost of migration, and 80 percent of citizens believe that migration threatens internal security, our national identities and/or the welfare state. only 16 percent think that migration is safe. are you out of your mind or are you trying to ruin europe? either, or regret is both.
that concludes this item.
the meeting is adjourned and will resume at 8:30 a.m. tomorrow, tuesday, february 15, 2022, with the announcement of the results of today's voting. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard a lot today about the lack of treatment options and the obstacles to the treatment of cancer. treatments are important, but even more important is prevention, so that these diseases do not occur in the first place. a few days ago, a study appeared in nature, which showed that the fifth planetary limit, namely exposure to chemicals and foreign substances, has been exceeded. and this is not just an environmental problem, it's a health problem. we've heard in the panel of experts that up to 50 percent of all cancers can't be traced back to a specific cause. but at the same time, the data from human biomonitoring shows that even newborns have several hundred chemicals in their blood. so, we need a systemic approach here. we need to move away from the end of the pipe, which is, we use it first and release it and then think about how we can reduce the strain, to a benign-by-design approach. in other words, we must optimize the substances we use not only in terms of their function, but also in terms of their impact on the environment and health. and that we acknowledge that there are many things we don't know yet - nothing else means the precautionary principle. i therefore believe that it is our duty to include health in all our legislation, to enable people to lead a healthy lifestyle and to protect them from health risks. i am pleased to see that the report is balanced. i hope that it will not be watered down by unscientific amendments and that it will be reflected in future legislation.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the eu-africa summit should allow us to review the basis of our relationship, in a spirit of mutual and reciprocal respect, and this in the framework of agreements that are fair and equitable for all. we must work hand in hand to support sustainable development, promote peace and combat climate change, which is devastating on both sides and threatening food security, in order to achieve the 2030 development goals. the strengthening of economic cooperation between the european union and africa must necessarily involve measures to create jobs for african youth, so that they can regain confidence in the possibility of a better life and stop looking for a fictitious eldorado in europe, which they are trying to reach at the risk of their lives. our migration policy must be based on solidarity and responsibility of the member states of the european union and on supporting our partners in their journey towards development. similarly, the female perspective should be one of the strong levers in our relations, backed by human rights and reproductive and sexual health, guaranteeing the empowerment of girls and women. only europe has historical relations with africa. we must therefore be very clear about where the problems are and where the problem is. our duty of memory also requires us to revisit sensitive issues of our common history, such as the restitution of cultural property and works of art. the summit offers the only opportunity to establish a constructive dialogue and to exchange our respective views, which correspond to the aspirations of all. together we will set common goals and resolutely look towards a promising future for all, so that we do not have to constantly reinvent our partnership.
madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we talk a lot these days about ukraine and russia, but africa, our neighbouring continent, also deserves and urgently needs our attention. the commission has already made it clear that it will not be able to do so until the council has adopted a decision on the matter. the european council is still stuck in the post-cotonou logic, but the commission of the leyen and we as parliament have been on the road in recent months to redefine our partnership with africa. what's important about this new partnership? acting together as the eu, as team europe, more visibility and more communication. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the geopolitical situation in africa has changed significantly. china, russia and others are pursuing their own ruthless policies in africa. we in europe want a partnership with africa that benefits both sides. and above all, we want to achieve the goals for which the people of europe and africa have elected us: safety and health, a profession that ensures a livelihood, political participation and freedom, and a clean environment. the european commission is now planning cooperation with africa for the next seven years, and then we must take stock. we're responsible for making it a good one.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. when we talk about eu-africa relations, we have to talk about the inequitable distribution of vaccines. while people in europe are fortunately vaccinated three times, in africa only 12% of people have been vaccinated so far 12%. and rightly so, the african states are calling for the temporary suspension of vaccine patents on the occasion of this eu-africa summit. and, frankly, the fact that the commission still refuses to grant patents is a sign of the commission's poverty. and frankly, it is also a disregard for this parliament. we have already decided twice in this house to grant patents. the united states and over 100 other countries support the liberalisation of patents, including several eu member states. and this alliance is clear: patent liberalisation will not hurt our pharmaceutical industry if we get this right. but it's the only way we can overcome this pandemic together, quickly. we've already lost too much time. i therefore expect the commission, you and the member states who are not yet convinced, to finally join in these arguments.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we should also acknowledge - and it is a very multifaceted debate today - we should also look at the fact that we are in a global competition of displacement, that our decisions here in the house as well as in the commission too often seem alien and out of place. the fact that we are in a global competition is rarely as clear as in the example of africa. if the approaches of other countries are more pragmatic, more attractive, then it is not us who are going to be in the way, but our competitors. because the discussion of changing values is too often blurred in our eyes, some here do not understand that the problems in many african countries - and this has already been revealed today - are precisely in the field of basic livelihood, in the field of infrastructure, and other powers therefore make development, the expansion of trade and raw materials their top priorities. we are in the front line of the green transition. this is bizarre. take hydrogen as a good example. by including africa in this new dream, you are willing to take space to generate locally needed electricity for the production of hydrogen, and risk the very thing that we have on our hands right now, the explosion in the cost of electricity. so we should recognize that to be stuck in a world of values is to be sidelined. we must move towards a policy that is also guided by our interests, in our favour and in that of africa.
i have to say, madam president, jean ziegler once said: "it is not a question of giving more to the people of the third world, but of stealing less from them". he's right, you know. the eu now wants to launch an investment campaign, build partnerships in africa and help people - you say, mr borrell. but is that really true? if it were about people, they'd release the patents for the corona vaccines. why don't you do that? not until today. mr borrell, you say you want to create security and stability there. but the eu's military missions in mali and across the sahel have not alleviated the suffering of the people. on the contrary, a corrupt military has trained the eu. why would you do that? for uranium, for the european nuclear plants, especially in france! no, the eu has always considered africa its own backyard. they steal the precious resources and use the continent as a market. they're destroying lives, and they've been doing it since yesterday. and then you wonder about people running. then, to stop people from fleeing to europe, you work with libya, a corrupt regime, and the libyan coast guard. i'm telling you, stop this. the european union must not be allowed to continue to exploit the people of africa with its foreign, economic and security policies. give them a chance at a real future.
madam president, i would like to thank mr borrell. it's good that we talk a lot today about human rights, education and justice in africa. but i have the impression that we talk a little too little about concrete projects, concrete projects that the african union, for example, has put itself through. they've launched an agenda 2063, and i want to pick out one of those projects, because it's important to me that we get away from this attitude of thinking about what's good for africa more than the people of africa. one of these projects is the single african airspace. now, this may sound very special, but we're talking a lot about climate change here. and you know, if you want to go from one african capital to another, you're often told to fly to europe first and then fly back to the african continent. we have the know-how in europe with our easa. we have the expertise in the commission and we should help to implement such projects which are initiated by the african union itself. i would therefore like to draw your attention, mr borrell, to this project.
i have to say, madam president, mrs von der leyen has announced a 150 billion euro programme for africa. the 75 billion euros are supposed to be financed by the taxpayer. the targets read as wonderful as ever, but in reality they are bubbles and wormholes. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european union, and the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european union. in other words, the european taxpayer is financing the construction of africa and is also being rewarded by the mass migration generated by the population explosion. i was a project developer in africa, so i know the reality. before starting a project, a number of marginal problems usually have to be solved. this includes things like repairing roads so that the materials are not damaged too much during transportation, or building a new power line so that the project can begin at all. we are also improving africa's infrastructure, while europe's is deteriorating. one in eight bridges in germany, one in 140,000, is in disrepair. the bribes that are openly demanded in africa are also bad, and without them nothing happens in africa because of good governance. this is the harsh reality in which well-meaning plans and ideas will fail. there are more meaningful approaches involving african partners to develop this continent for mutual benefit. and always remember: you are liable to the european taxpayer and not to the african or any other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. once again you present an endless wish list for a more offensive eu military presence, from the indo-pacific to space. despite afghanistan, they continue to do so: in mali, in mozambique and on the world's oceans. in a very short time, vast sums were decided upon for rearmament. at the same time, hospitals are lacking capacity. that's why there were massive civil rights cuts during the pandemic. the fact is that the arms race is not about the security needs of the peoples of europe, but about spheres of influence, markets and resources. ladies and gentlemen, in the current negotiations with russia and the escalation over ukraine, the only person who can be blamed for the continuing tensions is the autocrat putin. is that honest? we have good relations with turkey, saudi arabia, egypt and, today, colombia. isn't that hypocritical? not a word about nato or eu enlargement to the east. i say it clearly: the aspirations of the peoples of europe are peace and social security, a policy of détente, not armaments and war cries for markets and resources.
mr president, with russian troops on the ukrainian border and the european continent on the brink of a large-scale war, we are reminded once again that peace should not be taken for granted. peace should be aspired to and built. a stronger, more united eu is the best way to establish peace in europe, its neighbourhood and in many other regions worldwide. such an ambitious goal requires ambitious transformation. the eu needs to stop being only a timid economic giant and instead start acting more confidently on the global stage. to the militarisation by russia and the weaponisation of narratives by china and russia, we need to combat with a coherent european voice and action guided by our fundamental values and interest. we need to use all sources of our power, be it economic and normative. and we need to strengthen resilience and security of this union and its allies in eastern europe, in the balkans and elsewhere.
i have to say, madam president, the current tensions have put european security and defence policy in the spotlight. i was skeptical for a long time about the effectiveness of the gsvp. i believe that nato is the guarantor of peace, and i am not sure that the focus on the csdp would weaken nato. the current crisis has shown that the view from washington is not necessarily shared by all european capitals and that we need a more independent european voice in our relations with states such as russia and china, which reflects european interests. if csdp missions are to have any chance of achieving their objectives, they must begin by training themselves to deal with new and disruptive technologies that are rapidly entering the conflict arena. they must be closely aligned with nato's defence and deterrence strategy and with nato's efforts to promote cooperative security through the development of defence capabilities. and they must seek closer synergies with the national joint training and evaluation centres. however, i find it hard to believe that the csdp is the ultimate solution. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to find a solution to the problems of the third world. we need a defence architecture which is based in any case on the interests of the member states and not on the attempt to establish an ultimate sovereignty of the european union.
madam president, if we are serious about all these things that have been said today, about the promotion and protection of human rights, it’s actually human rights defenders who are our closest allies. they may not fight with weapons, they use the power of the word, they need a lot of persistence, but they are the only key we have to a sustainable change on the ground. and last year was clearly not a good year for them. the use of pegasus and other spyware shakes the foundations of how they do their work and their networks. afghanistan is just the most dramatic case of a global backlash on women’s rights and on political freedoms and many of us have lost friends and colleagues who were killed only because they protect and defend human rights. and we tend to move on, as if that’s a risk that comes with the job. it’s not. being harassed, being kidnapped, being tortured, being killed because of doing human rights work is something we should never accept, and that’s the line we need to hold. so, in the year to come, i hope we manage to move up the protection of human rights defenders on our political priorities and we ourselves will be better allies to our allies on the ground.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. as a shadow rapporteur, i listened with great interest to the rapporteur's speech, because i do not read the words 'putin', 'orbán' and 'le pen' in the report. so welcome to the hungarian election campaign! the word i am reading is olaf, the european institution which has been investigating you on corruption charges. unfortunately, this kind of double standard is something that confirms the prejudice against the house. and the fact that mr glucksmann of the s&d group is attacking the german social democrat chancellor schröder by name, i would also like to dismiss as brazen as a german member of parliament. corruption is opaque, and corruption leads to political processes being influenced outside the democratic process. but why don't you talk about the many ngos and the possibility of legally influencing this democracy? the report is unfortunately front-page news, and that is why we cannot agree with it.
mr president, too many europeans think that corruption is something that happens far away, that leaders stealing from their citizens is something that doesn’t happen in the european union. too few europeans, unfortunately, know that we make it possible. european banks launder the money. european accountants develop the shell companies structures to hide the money. european real estate companies help to create safe havens for the stolen assets, and european countries provide the golden visas or sell the passports that allow people to enjoy the stolen proceeds. but this does not only create devastation in the rest of the world. it actually has a real impact on our citizens because, for example, it inflates real estate prices in pretty much every city on this continent. so this is one of the direct effects that global corruption has on the life of our citizens, and this has to stop. the eu must not be a safe haven for stolen assets. dirty money should not be allowed and should not be welcome on our continent, and the eu should lead the fight against kleptocracies, wherever they exist. i think katalin cseh has made an excellent list of things that we can do to be better in that fight against kleptocracy, and we should get going right away on putting this into place.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 february 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is investigating the czech rapporteur katalin on the basis of a well-founded suspicion of fraud involving eu public funds. the business of the company headed by mr katalin and the business of companies related to his family are suspected to have operated as a network of companies fraudulently diverting domestic and eu development funds. so the corruption report with his name on it is rendered invalid in the field of human rights. the need to combat corruption more effectively is not an issue within the union or outside it. but it is questionable from all points of view that the ep's anti-corruption report on foreign affairs should be marked with the name of a politician involved in a serious multi-billion-forint fraud case. the report itself contains several unacceptable elements. the transition to qualified majority voting in the union's foreign policy is contrary to the eu's basic treaties and is therefore totally unacceptable to us. it is in the union's common interest to maintain the weight and voice of the smaller member states. the introduction of majority voting would deprive these nations of the opportunity to influence eu human rights policy on issues of importance to them, and of their fundamental right to represent their sovereign national interests on an equal footing and to the same extent.
the next item is the report (a9-0349/2021) by mr brando benifei, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the implementation of directive 2009/48/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the safety of toys (toy directive) (2021/2040).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the latest report on the european system for notifying dangerous products, safety gate, toys are among the products most frequently reported by national authorities: 27% of the total in 2019. play is a critical time for children's motor and cognitive development, but it can also expose them to numerous health risks, not necessarily visible at the time but also with long-term impacts. that is why toy legislation is a fundamental instrument. directive 2009/48/ec has certainly played a positive role so far, but there remain some problems of flexibility and inconsistencies to be corrected, as well as the need to address new challenges arising from both the latest scientific evidence and new technologies. we are examining these points in the report and are making proposals to the commission and the member states. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. derogations for carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction substances provide for a concentration of such substances that is too high to ensure effective protection. given their high risk to children's health, we ask that a reduction in the possibility of derogation be considered. the limit values for nitrosamines in the directive are too high, as the commission itself admits, and must be reduced to at least the threshold already adopted in germany, for example, in derogation from the directive. we also call for a serious assessment of whether the distinction for chemicals between toys for children under 36 months and others should be removed. a child remains vulnerable even at 37 months of age, not to mention that this distinction also allows for easy circumvention of the norm, declaring that a game is reserved for children over that age even when it is not. these points cannot be changed at present without a long-term co-decision procedure. we have therefore asked for a revision of the directive, which we have been pleased to note has been confirmed by the commission itself. we therefore ask that this opportunity be used to convert the directive into a regulation, so that it is directly applicable in all member states. we are asking for the commitments made by the commission in the strategy on sustainable chemicals to be maintained, including on toys. i would mention, among others, the extension of the generic approach to risk management to endocrine disruptors, to ensure that these substances are also banned in toys. the review may also be an opportunity to explore the possibility of including durability and repairability elements in the labelling to increase sustainability aspects in toys as well, in line with the objectives of the circular economy. as regards new technologies, the emergence of connected or ai-enabled toys poses new challenges, highlighting the particular vulnerability of children to external manipulation or tracking. we need to address these issues in this and other legislative tools, from cybersecurity, to connected products, to artificial intelligence, because the issue of privacy and children's mental health has become more pressing as these products are increasingly present in their lives. i'll conclude by addressing one of the fundamental issues for toy safety today, which is the proliferation of dangerous games, especially online. i want to make a premise: the toy industry in europe is overwhelmingly made up of small and mediumsized enterprises which make a great effort - it must be acknowledged - to bring to market only games which comply with all the rules. unfortunately, not all other producers are so keen to comply with them. so the problem will not be solved unless there is a strong action by the so-called marketplaces to control their sellers and prevent the reappearance of unsafe games, already removed from their platforms. the market surveillance authorities are doing their utmost and certainly need to do even more, especially in some member states, coordinate better and use new technologies, but they need resources and cannot cover everything. the outcome of the negotiations on the european digital services act, currently under way, will therefore be crucial to improve the situation and ensure that what is illegal offline is also illegal online. these are the main points of the report we are voting on tomorrow, and i hope it will have the broad support of the whole of the european parliament.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes this report and commends brando benifei and all the shadow rapporteurs for their detailed and balanced assessment on the implementation of the directive. toys are important for child development and for the economy, and children are particularly vulnerable and deserve the highest protection. we all agree on that. ensuring that toys do not put children at risk must be a universally respected priority. the toy safety directive already imposes safety requirements that are amongst the strictest in the world. however, as your report rightly points out, eu rules for toys can still be improved, in particular regarding protection from chemical risks. we in the commission share the main conclusions of your report, which also reflect the shortcomings that we ourselves identified in our evaluation report published two years ago. i’m very pleased to report to this house that the commission is already working towards the revision of the directive. the main objectives of the revision will be to strengthen the protection of children when playing with toys, in particular from chemical substances, and to reduce the number of non-compliant toys that can still be found in our european market. this revision will also follow up on the commitments in our chemical strategy for sustainability. we will look for measures to extend the prohibition of substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic, endocrine disruptors and other classes of harmful substances. in this manner, the most harmful substances would be preventively banned in toys. limited derogations to these general bans would, of course, be provided. furthermore, we will consider how to provide the directive with the necessary flexibility to adapt to new scientific knowledge, especially on chemical risks, which, as you know, is constantly evolving. this would allow for adapting or introducing limit values for harmful chemicals, not only for toys for younger children as is the case today. older children may be equally exposed and therefore should also be protected. we take note of the parliament’s concerns on cybersecurity or privacy in toys. we will explore options to strengthen protection not only of the physical health and safety of children, but also of their mental health and cognitive development. other initiatives at eu level which are currently addressing cybersecurity and privacy in products, including toys, will of course be taken into account. on market surveillance, your report highlights the need for effective market surveillance of products, particularly in online sales, and we share your concerns about the high number of non-compliant toys that are still found in the european market. we will investigate additional measures to improve compliance and enforcement of the toy safety rules, including the generalised use of digital technologies to require that certain compliance information be embedded in the toy itself. certain legislative developments, such as the recent market surveillance regulation, as well as the digital services act, will of course be considered in this assessment. honourable members, the commission looks forward to our continued cooperation on this important file.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what's better than watching a child play, drive a construction crane through a sandbox, or fall asleep with a teddy bear in his arms? it is all the more shocking to learn that last year one in five products classified as dangerous by the eu was a toy. today's toys cannot and should not contain toxic or harmful chemicals that can cause cancer or cause genetic mutations. we must act urgently to ensure that dangerous toys do not enter the internal market, but that if they do, they are detected and withdrawn as quickly as possible. we must intervene precisely where it is actually necessary, so as not to place unnecessary burdens on honest toy suppliers and to increase the price of products. at the same time, we must be consistent in removing the black sheep from the market. the proposed measures are designed to: (i) accelerate the response to scientific evidence by targeted adaptation of chemical limit values; (ii) identify and eliminate the risks posed by so-called networked toys; and (iii) address the challenges of online distribution channels. today, dangerous toys are mostly delivered to our children directly from online marketplaces and third countries. the online marketplaces need to do more to get the black sheep out of the way. in any event, declarations of intent cannot effectively prevent the import of unsafe toys and controls need to be made more efficient both offline and online. market surveillance authorities need adequate human and financial resources to be able to carry out their tasks efficiently. if enforcement doesn't work, the best law doesn't work. more security for our children and at the same time fairer conditions of competition for our companies - that is our aim, commissioner, and that is what we are aiming for in the proposal.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, thank you first of all, dear mr benifei, and thank the shadows for a cooperative atmosphere during the process and negotiation. a high number of toys on the market are unsafe and can harm children, and this is unacceptable for us as greens/efa. this is why we are asking for an ambitious revision of the toy safety directive that should guarantee that our kids are safe when playing with their toys. mr beneifei’s initiative report will give some good guidance for that revision. as greens, we are happy to see the amendments were accepted in the committee on internal market and consumer protection (imco), such as adaptive toys. we stress the need to develop ambitious standards for adaptive toys that allow children with disabilities to enjoy and interact with toys they may not be able to otherwise. second one, going beyond children’s age limit for chemical toxicity, specific limit values for any chemicals and toys can be set. however, these limit values only apply to toys for children under the age of 36 months and toys indeed intended to be put in the mouth. yet chemical toxicity does not vanish when a child reaches the age of 36 months. smart toys are very important. so far the directive does not cover internet-connected toys. we have therefore highlighted new vulnerabilities and risk posed by connected toys in terms of childrens’ safety, security, privacy and mental health. further gains are improving data collection, ambitious standards, the prohibition of cmr chemicals should have no derogation detecting unsafe toys, online sales of toys and addressing grey zones. thank you for your support tomorrow during that vote.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not as a 19th-century american constitutional judge noted, "law and order are what create, protect, and hold together a society". they are the essence of any civil society. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today we all have the chance to create the essence of our european civil society: a legal basis, minimum standards for its functioning, a secure legal form. that this is not a mere formality but a necessity was recognized by this house 30 years ago. at that time our predecessors called for european ngos to be given what they deserve: recognition, legal certainty, protection and an option - an option to be constituted and operate as transnational and truly european. this is what we want to deliver after 30 long years. the road to here was long and rocky. and i know the concerns of the other members and the commission too, that we are far from the goal. but, ladies and gentlemen, the time is right. it is ripe because the eu has long since become more than just a marketplace, it is a place for democracy. and that democracy includes a european civil society. the time is ripe because so many ngos and charitable foundations have long since considered themselves european, but still cannot act in a european manner. in my region of brandenburg, i travelled along the polish-german border. i talked to a lot of people, i met a lot of ngos from both countries, some pro-government, some critical. they all agreed that they had difficulties in being able to engage across borders. this report will address these difficulties. whether in gubin or guben, whether in frankfurt or słubice, whether in strasbourg or kehl, citizens want to contribute to europe. and that is exactly what this report wants. we want to give these citizens the opportunity to join forces and form european associations by means of a regulation. we want these associations to be registered as european ngos, to think in a european way about their charitable activities and to manage their activities according to common transparent rules and, if necessary, to have them dissolved. we want to ensure, for the first time in the history of the eu, that minimum standards are set for foundations and associations for the benefit of the general public and that they are required by the member states, against discrimination and pressure from public authorities, to facilitate crossborder charitable activities. we have a lot of work to do. in many countries, there are still obstacles. this report will not deprive member states of the opportunity to continue to regulate associations and foundations according to national needs. but it creates more clarity, more security and more options for european civil society. it's a proposal and a bit of a vision. we have worked hard on this vision across party lines, but in a very constructive way. and i am very grateful to all my colleagues and all the shadow rapporteurs for this. and i invite the commission to incorporate the results of this work into a legislative proposal. let us together finally put this vision into practice after 30 long years!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the id foundation recently carried out a study on the influence of ngos on eu legislation. of the 12 600 lobbyists in the eu transparency register, 3 500 are ngos. ngos maintain close contacts with the commission and politicians, drafting legislation like lobbyists, but are hardly subject to disclosure rules. from 2014 to 2017, ngos received at least eur 11,3 billion from the eu budget. that's at least 11.3 billion for pro-eu lobbying, because ngos are calling for more migration, more climate action, minority rights and more eu. "ngo" or "non-profit organization" sounds like philanthropy and "charity". but multinational ngos receive billions from financial investors and are financially stronger than the average savings bank. however, as so-called not obliged entities or privileged organisations, they are exempt from anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws. their sources of funding often remain in the dark. last year, hungary tried to tighten the transparency requirements for foreign ngos. but the ecj rejected the transparency act as a violation of the free movement of capital. it would be a good model for the eu if it were modified a little.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to thank my colleagues, regardless of their positions and affiliations, and i also thank the vice—president for taking this issue seriously – there is no doubt about that. i would like to go back to what mr manders said, in a very eloquent way. he asked what it is about, what we are discussing here. the litmus test about what it is comes from our id and ecr colleagues – unfortunately ecr, though many colleagues actually supported it and were part of many compromises in the negotiations: it is about the value of europeanisation and it is about the value of civil society, and this is what we saw during the debate. i honestly ask you, vice-president, and your colleagues from the commission, what side do you want to be on? i don’t want to simplify it, of course, as there is plenty to discuss and we are open to this discussion, but i would like to remind you how many large parties and how many representatives of the large majority of this house spoke for this form of fighting for, and creating, civil society in europe. that is an overwhelming majority. we will see how the vote is going to go, but if this is reflected in the vote, then the majority is overwhelming. i would like to remind us all about the promise of the commission to consider the legislative proposals coming from this house with such majorities seriously, in the form that they are proposed. yes, things are changing. colleague toia said this right. if you look at the position of the german government and the new coalition agreement, even that has changed. germany was the one who opposed this proposal, but now, knowing where we stand and having others who are responsible now, part of the coalition agreement explicitly says that germany would support this proposal – and many countries, i’m sure, will follow suit. i am looking forward to our cooperation and discussion and i am looking forward to the vote tomorrow. what we are doing here is for europe and for our civil society, and that makes me very proud and very grateful for this opportunity.
mr president, ‘war is so unjust and ugly that all who wage it must try to stifle the voice of conscience within themselves.’ these words belong to one of the greatest pacifists, leo tolstoy, who ironically also happens to be the person who president putin claims to have influenced him most. evidently, the russian president has stifled his voice of conscience and brought our continent to the brink of war. how else could he summon 135 000 soldiers to the ukrainian border? ukraine is a great country of great people. today it is stronger than ever. it stands up for itself and will only be stronger tomorrow. this is the reason for the kremlin’s warmongering. putin knows if he does not take over ukraine now, he won’t be able to do so in the future. what the russian president sees as a window of opportunity could be a lethal trap for his country. ukraine will be for russia what afghanistan was for the soviet union – an imperial overstretch and a painful end to putin’s empire. war is not only unjust and ugly, but also senseless, as there are no winners. it brings only destruction and suffering to people on both sides. if putin starts the war, ordinary russians will have to suffer the consequences – russian mothers crying over their fallen sons, pensioners feeling the chilling effects of western sanctions. ukrainians are strong because they fight for their country. they do not stand alone, because they have reliable friends and, above all, because they have the truth on their side.
mr president, the one positive thing about this week is that we are talking, but history will judge us only if we think beyond short-term. yes, in the short-term, we have to overcome the current crisis and talking and negotiating, especially the tough negotiations that we are experiencing is a great, great step forward. but what about the mid-term? how do we make sure that we have a sustainable solution and we do not allow russia to repeat its threatening posture vis-à-vis ukraine and its other neighbours again and again and again? we must make clear that we can only return to business as usual if russia will cease its propaganda crusade against ukraine, its threats against ukraine and its lies against ukraine – just as we heard the lie about an alleged genocide or discrimination of russian speakers, which are not true. we have to do everything possible that the blackmail that we are experiencing will not be repeating itself. and yes, we must start thinking about how to develop the minsk agreement beyond the mantra that we have been repeating so far, because we need a tool that is effective in the mid-term and in the long-term we will have to engage with russia where we can, but we must disengage where we must, and we must disengage also in the energy area. that’s why nord stream 2 is not part of sanctions. nord stream 2 is unacceptable no matter what.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation on the russian border with ukraine is still worrying and very opaque. whether the partial withdrawal of russian troops can be interpreted as a permanent relaxation is currently completely unclear. but to improve the situation in the long term, several steps are needed. the first is that ukraine must guarantee that it will definitely not join nato. as the renowned american political scientist john mearsheimer has rightly said: no great power wants to have another great power as its neighbour. let's just imagine that canada would join an alliance with russia. i'm sure the united states would be very pleased. these facts make one thing very clear: nato has been moving towards russia for decades, not the other way around. i therefore reject any unilateral condemnation of russia. there must be no new sanctions against russia. instead, the existing sanctions should be lifted in the future to reduce these unnecessary tensions. the ukrainian side should be given the status of a neutral state, so that it can maintain relations with moscow and washington without taking sides in any way, thereby triggering conflicts between the two powers. of course, russia must be clear about one thing: we are of course uncompromisingly on the side of the visegrad states, the baltic states or our polish friends in the event of russian aggression or threat. but what unites us all must be clear: war must be prevented!
in writing. the ukrainian crisis is a frozen conflict that has escalated. each country has the right to autonomy and to choose its own security solutions without external pressure or special interests. this right is also, of course, for ukraine, whose inviolability we defend with all our might. the eu has been unusually united and unanimous in communicating this to russia, together with nato. we are also prepared to rapidly expand the range of economic sanctions in the event of an attack on ukraine. it is clear that it is in the interest of all parties to avoid escalation. we must be able to maintain a dialogue with russia and even understand its priorities, even if we do not accept them. the solution to the crisis requires above all a broader international coordinated action to defend international multilateral agreements and the world order based on their observance. the talks, although they are intensifying, must be conducted rationally with russia. the ability to avoid provocation is essential, for responding to intimidation and threats can easily play into the other party's pocket. the most important thing is to stabilize the situation on the european continent, to establish peace and effective cooperation rather than an armed crisis that escalates into war. interventions are always easier to start than to end.
in writing. we must do everything to preserve peace. the territorial integrity of ukraine must be maintained. unfortunately, the calls for concrete de-escalation have not achieved anything. and there's no sign of a reduction in russian troops on the border with ukraine. i hope that we can find a solution through dialogue.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. 2022 is the european year of youth. that is good, for our youth is our future. but what about our youth? for many years we have been unable to control the rampant youth unemployment - sometimes over 40%. in germany, a supposedly rich country, there are very few unemployed young people, but many young people who are working are considered poor in this supposedly rich country. in the last three years the number of young people in employment who are considered poor has doubled in germany. the eu has also left a trillion-dollar debt mountain for future generations to build up with the reconstruction fund. all of these are real reasons to be afraid. our youth are actually afraid, but not of these real problems that i've been talking about, but of another problem: our youth are afraid of climate change. and that's understandable, because we have declared a climate emergency. that sounds threatening. there are, in fact, young people who feel that they do not need to learn any more because they will soon die. this madness is in the minds of some young people. they're afraid of dying in the future or soon because of climate change. this is insane. and the eu's climate policy is to blame for this madness. this is an irresponsible way of creating fear and panic. and it goes on to say: the commission now intends to make environmental sustainability a core theme of general education. what we need is an education without ideology. and what we need is a debt-free future for our youth. what we need is a future with less eu and more freedom.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am 32 years old, mr president, and i do not presume to know what all young people want. but before i came to parliament, i volunteered for ten years in youth policy, and in those ten years i learned one thing: there is a hell of a lot of talk about young people and pretty little with them. and if the commission declares 2022 the european year of youth, without a real programme, without a substantial budget behind it: yes, sorry, but then i have to ask myself: is there really more to it than a pr manoeuvre? i would like to ask the commissioner, the minister and the honourable members to listen to young people. i want us to take their ideas into account, simply: i expect more from the european union. i want an eu where young people do not care where they come from, where they have the same opportunities to achieve their goals and dreams, whether they grew up like me in rural schleswig-holstein, in sweden, spain or slovenia. young people have made quite a setback in the last two years: in education, in work, in private life. let's make 2022 their platform so that every year from now on can be a european youth year!
mr. president, young people deserve to be told the truth, that a full life is only achieved on a path of effort and development of virtues, where love and the search for the common good are present. but here in parliament, you are told about imposed agendas, ideologies that encourage victimization, guilt, hopelessness, fear, instead of learning to trust yourself. follow the natural dictates of reason, of your heart and display your talent. wake up, you are the present. look for a prosperous environment of hope and opportunities to earn a decent living, to be able to start a life and start a family. you are the light of the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in the european parliament's plenary about young people and how we can concretely support them to have a better future in every member state of the union. but we don't just have to talk about it, we have to act. for example, ana-maria, 25, a graduate of two colleges in my hometown of alba-iulia, told me that she was thinking about moving to a bigger city because she doesn't have the same opportunities in a small community. stefan, one of my students, wants to take advantage of european mobility, but his family cannot afford to give him extra money to go to the university he wants outside the country. clemence, an erasmus student, is having difficulty finding an internship suited to her training. these are just a few real and concrete examples of the problems faced by many young people in the european union. disparities are growing, youth unemployment is rising, access to quality education is unequal, poverty and the pandemic have caused many young people to have psychological problems, and unfortunately, we in the european parliament cannot reach a minor consensus that would lead to the end of unpaid internships in europe. unfortunately, there is no real political will at the level of some european political groups and this is reflected in a low level of ambition, including in the results of the european year of youth. the socialist group fought hard and won the funds for the european year, but unfortunately we see no concrete prospects. my call today is for the construction of a european union where young people and every european citizen can reach their potential anywhere in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, these two years of the pandemic have left a deep impression on our young people. we know the number of deaths and those infected by coronavirus, but not the extent of the damage it has caused to the younger generations. the european year of youth 2022 should not be a generic tribute to our future, but an opportunity to give our young people back their confidence, hope and the will to be leaders. concrete measures that give them the opportunity to train as citizens, to improve their skills, to find employment through a strong investment in education that leaves no one behind and is open to europe. concrete measures, such as psychological support, to overcome the impact of the pandemic; the commission has already taken concrete measures, such as the cultural bonus, which was introduced for the first time in italy by the renzi government, to give 18-year-olds the opportunity to nourish their souls with music, theatre, cinema and reading. if we can achieve these goals, we will have invested in our children, our most precious asset for the future.
mr. chairman, the nomen est omen. in the name of this point you have stated your main objective: one youth, one europe, i would suggest - one society, one european superstate. i've heard a lot of good proposals today, but i'm disturbed that you're using youth to promote this unitarianism, this european superstate where there is no longer a unity in diversity, where everyone should accept your one sort of european worldview. how far you are willing to go is also shown by the judgment of today's european court which condemns not only poland and hungary but all those who think differently, especially those who promote christian values. but if there's one thing young people hate, it's a uniform. every young person feels special, feels original and doesn't want to be part of some amorphous mass. so if we want to make a successful policy for young people, let's respect their originality, let's respect their differences.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: this is a fantastic case. after all, our youth is the best time of our lives. nevertheless, we must face up to the fact that the past few years have been very difficult: the miserable coronavirus has paralyzed young people's social lives, cutting young people off from friends and family, and preventing them from going out and having fun. let us not make youth a lost generation and give young people a boost in 2022 by involving them in our decision-making, by providing a budget for young people and, above all, by massively expanding the erasmus programme. i myself have been an erasmus student and would like all young people to take part in the programme. erasmus not only empowers young people, but also makes them genuine europeans. let us therefore ensure that all young people in europe can take part in the erasmus programme, so that europe can produce genuine, good and convinced europeans with their own dreams.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for taking the floor in this very interesting debate. i listened very carefully to the speeches of most of my colleagues, and there were a number of interesting suggestions. it's good that we're debating issues specifically for young people today. i personally see three key areas where the eu could help young people, both from my own political experience. first, in the field of education, secondly in the field of employment, but also in the field of housing. the last theme was the least frequent, and the commissioner did not stress it too much. i understand that the housing issue is not directly within the competence of the european union, but it is a subject that young people are particularly concerned about, and if we do not also debate it, the debate will not be comprehensive. in the field of education, we have erasmus. i'm sure it's a working project, we can improve it further. in the area of employment, i would like to mention the european social fund plus, where i would point out that the court of auditors, in its report of last december, drew attention to certain shortcomings, to areas where the employment of young people could be improved. it is therefore for the commission to look at the work of this fund and improve its operation. and again, housing is a topic that has not been brought up much here, but believe me, for young people, it's absolutely crucial.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, the pandemic has hit our whole society hard in the last two years. but if there is one group that has suffered especially from the consequences of the pandemic, it is the youth. being young can't mean having fewer opportunities. being young doesn't mean you can't have a decent salary. being young can't be synonymous with unpaid internships. being young is more than looking for job opportunities. being young means thinking about the future, and we must bet on the future of young people. their future also depends on the education and training they receive in the present. without quality, inclusive and barrier-free education, our young people will have a harder time reaching their goals. we celebrate the european year of youth and the conference on the future of europe in 2022. there is no better future than that which our young people represent. let us really involve young people in shaping the europe of the future. every person is only young once in life. as a society, we can't afford to let it go to waste. we must not let young people miss this stage.
mr. president, i am not young. yeah, i can see that. the fact that the european union has helped countries and many people to progress for decades is a fact. that those of us who are no longer young think we know everything that is best for young people, that happens in every generation. now, the technological transformation is so profound, the geopolitical challenges are so serious or our political weaknesses are so unprecedented that we cannot think or act as we always have. we are the first generation of adults who cannot and should not exercise paternalism and who must resolve the year of youth as never before. training, as has been said, and vocational training in each country, certainly, but the homologation of qualifications and professional accreditation throughout europe, as has also been said, are the first things we must tackle in a real dialogue with realism and ambition. the reality of employment - it has been said - youth emancipation - it has also been said - is the second thing and some countries stand out very negatively - for example spain and greece - in this. we can't settle, resign, or even think about not working together. at the conference on the future of europe we saw that young people want to be co-protagonists in shaping the future. and they're right. we can't do any less than that. so let's just push through and not be paternalistic. and let's give them the opportunity to co-design with us.
mr president, mr secretary of state, young europeans have been hit hard by the covid-19 pandemic - as many of us have said - and by the measures put in place to deal with it. their education suffered, as did their employment prospects and future prospects. the european year of youth is therefore a welcome opportunity to focus on them and to increase the number of proposals to address the challenges they face. among these proposals, i would like to mention in particular school mentoring, because i believe that it can be a powerful tool to prevent drop-out and early school leaving. mentoring creates intergenerational connection and meaning, while also giving new momentum and hope to young people who have felt forgotten at a key time in their personal development. beyond that, mentoring helps to redress social inequalities. in france, mentoring is a success and is gaining momentum, particularly with the '1 young, 1 mentor' scheme. i believe that this policy should be an opportunity for all young europeans to benefit from. the european mentoring network should therefore be supported and the funding of the associations that organise it should be supported.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, students in many italian higher education institutions are occupying schools in protest, to demand safety in school and in places where they learn a job, have rights and a chance for a better future. they do it thinking of lorenzo parelli, 18, and giuseppe lenoci, 16, two boys who alternated school and work in the company and who died. these protesting students are right, they are right, let us face the reality of the situation facing a significant part of europe's youth: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that after all the good words you have heard in this house today, you have all done the right thing by voting for this text, because it is about the future and the dignity of the new generations.
madam president, the situation of young people has deteriorated significantly during the pandemic. many of them were hit by the measures at the time they were looking for their first job. others have lost the opportunity to travel abroad to study or do internships. added to this were the lack of social contact, the impossibility of sports or culture, and long months spent in front of computers. education has moved online for almost two years. all of this has been written on the mental health of young people. statistics show it's a much bigger problem than we thought. in slovakia, a survey comparing the mental health of young people before and during the pandemic showed a shocking deterioration, which was caused by cyberbullying and inappropriate content on the internet, among other things. we recently voted on the digital services act, which fights against such content. but our work is far from over. we need to find more ways to protect young people from the negative impact of the online world. the second aspect i would like to mention is unemployment. to start a successful life, to start a family, and to take charge of your future, the key is to find a job and to fulfill yourself. unfortunately, the pandemic has also made the situation in this area much worse. i believe that these are the two main areas on which we must concentrate in the coming years. otherwise, we may find ourselves awakening to a reality in which we realize that we have lost an entire generation of young people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, we have heard many fine words and many fine phrases today. and we hope that it will not just be sunday speeches, but that we - and the commission - will finally be able to put forward something to give young people more and a better perspective throughout europe, because it is urgently needed. i myself come from germany. i am the federal chairman of the family party of germany. and once a year, a survey is conducted in germany among young people between the ages of 15 and 25. and for years now, 85 to 95% of young people say that the first thing they want to do is to have a family and a home in the future. this is what people in germany - and i think it is not so different in other countries - what young people want: they want security, security, family and a home of their own. so, now let's look at the realities. now let's look at the mass unemployment among young people in many countries. i am thinking of spain and greece. now let's look at how many young people live below the poverty line. and now let us look at the prospects of many young people in our europe. and that is where we must start, where we must finally act. we are obliged to give people a perspective and to give future generations, who will one day have to build and shape our europe, a perspective here. and that is our obligation, and that is where we have to start. and that is why i am calling once and for all for us to put forward the right, forward-looking concepts which not only give young people a perspective but also aim at european security and european further education.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the court of justice ruled today that the commission may make payments from the eu budget conditional on compliance with so-called rule of law criteria. the eu institutions have a very wide discretion when interpreting the concept of the rule of law. in concrete terms, payments to hungary and poland can now be withheld because both countries are accused of endangering the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. three things to note: first, the ecj follows an ultra-flexible interpretation of the treaties, contrary to articles 31 and 32 of the vienna convention on the law of treaties. in other words, the ecj does not give precedence to the wording, but often prefers other interpretation criteria that allow for greater eu integration. the treaties are being interpreted against their wording. right is what the judge says it is. secondly, there is no legal basis in the treaties for conditionality in the allocation of budgetary resources on the basis of a universal eu competence to enforce the rule of law, even against national constitutional law. under the principle of limited individual competence, all competences remain with the member states unless they have been expressly and exclusively transferred to the eu. the judiciary and even fundamental rights are not such exclusively delegated fields. thirdly, poland and hungary, according to the ecj, politicised the judiciary. in fact, neither country goes nearly as far as germany. because in germany, all constitutional judges are elected by the political class, all judges are allowed to be members of political parties, all prosecutors are politically bound and the opposition is monitored by the secret service. he's a corporate lawyer and a partner in a corporate law firm that brings in a lot of money and also likes to donate. but it is not germany that is condemned, but hungary and poland. let 's sum it up . the ecj ignores methods of interpreting international law, finds arbitrary aims and purposes in crystal-clear treaty provisions, judges arbitrarily and treats hungary and poland differently from germany because the rule of law has become a leftist state in germany. what is called the rule of law here is nothing more than the continuation of the left-wing rule of law practised here by other means, in this case the judicature.
i have to say, madam president, the time for excuses and distractions is over today. you've fulfilled your dirty deal from the eu summit. they have been illegally waiting to use this mechanism, but with today's ruling, that's over. the period of ineligibility for orbán and kaczyński has finally expired and the commission must now fulfil its statutory task. it is not enough to just finalise guidelines, you must act! and then to all the right-wingers here in the european parliament: lgbtq law? that's not the point. more power for brussels? that's not the point. it's not about putin, either. why do you use these ridiculous arguments? i can tell you this: because you want to hide what is really going on, that eu funds are being stolen, that they are being funneled through dark channels. you're trying to cover it up! they want to cover up the fact that the hard-earned money of european taxpayers is to be stolen further. everybody needs to know that. that's what you care about. you're trying to cover it up! the commission is not going to do anything to get involved in this. do something! this is not the time for guidelines. this is no time for pen pals. it is time to act now and protect the rule of law in europe. otherwise you will be in cahoots with those forces - those forces which are not committed to the common values but which want to continue to conceal the fact that european taxpayers' money is being stolen in these member states - or else you will be in cahoots with those forces.
madam president, mr hahn, you are very welcome. the mechanism has been in place for 14 months now. since then the commission has been here nine times in the house on this subject. we have been told nine times that the time is now very near, that the guidelines will be published in the autumn, in a few weeks. it has been said time and again that no case is lost. we are here today, and we have heard it again: we must now analyse carefully, we must complete the guidelines. mr commissioner, since the mechanism came into force, you, as commissioner for the budget, have transferred 6 billion euros to hungary - 6 billion of which, as you know, are not going to where you are supposed to go. you wrote in detail in your letter to the orbán government that the procurement system is not working. there is no longer an independent judiciary, there is no real fight against corruption, especially against the corruption in viktor orbán's immediate environment. and yet you continue to send money, 16.8 million euros every day. you know that orbán uses the money to stay in power. you know he's doing everything he can to buy his way to the presidency in a few weeks. and yet you do nothing. now mrs. von der leyen is basically throwing you in front of the bus here today. now you're here to defend a policy you don't want. you want to trigger the mechanism, but the commission president won't let you. is there any point where you say: i am no longer supporting the european commission's failure to protect the rule of law in the european union?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today's judgment by the european court of justice is a victory for democracy with a clear message: the european values of the rule of law and solidarity are at the heart of the european union's identity. and the court is thus confirming something that we all know, except perhaps on the right side of the house, namely that fundamental rights apply throughout europe, including to the citizens of poland and hungary. they're not second-class people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the polish and hungarian citizens have the same right to protection against arbitrariness and corruption as people in other european countries. and it is the commission's task, mr commissioner, to ensure that this is finally done. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give a ruling on the application of article 85 (3) of the treaty to the case of a member state which has failed to fulfil its obligations under the treaty. the commissioner, this is a slap in the face of democratic europe. and you have heard today what lies are being spread here, what disinformation is being spread by the representatives of the hungarian ruling party. hungary is in an election campaign, an election campaign where the government is spreading such lies, where there is no free press, where there are no free universities anymore and the whole thing is financed with european money. it is the commission's task to enforce the law so that people in poland and hungary can finally enjoy their rights again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the commission and the council! the european court of justice's judgment today was incredibly important to all of us. this is important because the court of justice has stated in detail that the commitment to european values does not disappear with eu accession. the judgment was incredibly important because it refutes what we are constantly told by some government officials: that the rule of law is too abstract for some. no, she's not. fortunately, the judgment found that the conditionality mechanism is valid and has always been valid, among other tools. and yes, today's judgment was important for all of us, but for you, dear commission, this judgment was unnecessary. because the assumption that we have to wait for the judgment is as pointless as the assumption that we have to wait for implementing directives or that we have to wait for hungarian national elections. what are we waiting for? the rule of law does not tolerate delay. that's why this house sued you for negligence. that is why we continue to insist that governments be notified immediately. you do not owe it to us, you owe it to our eu citizens. you owe it to the people whose money and liberties are being taken away by their governments.
madam president, thank you, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, the european court of justice has spoken, and the commission must act now. no more holding back, no more hiding. the european court of justice has confirmed today what we all knew from the very start. the rule of law conditionality is fully compliant with union law. it is a strong mechanism to protect the budget of the european union and the money of the people in europe. this mechanism is a powerful tool to safeguard the rule of law in every member state. now is the time to act. as the european court of justice said today, the values of respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law define the very identity of the european union as a common legal order. it also said that the european union must be able to defend those values, and i add the european union has to defend those values. we, the european parliament, expect the commission to now come forward and do exactly that – defend our shared values. the guardian of the treaties must not let more time pass by, for example, by drafting unnecessary guidelines. the commission must act now based on the law and on the absolutely clear cases of poland and hungary. together, we have to stop the democratic backsliding in the european union. we have to stand up for our common values and show the people in the european union, and in hungary and poland, that we are in this together. defending the rule of law is what the citizens of europe were promised when joining the eu. it is what we owe to the citizens of europe.
before we continue with the debate, i'd like to announce the results of the first round of voting today, february 16, 2022. (the president declared the results of the votes.) (a) the following paragraph is inserted: for further details, see minutes.
we now move on to the council and commission statements on the rule of law and the consequences of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union (2022/2535 ((rsp)).
the commission has already done so. i think it is quite right to conclude by saying that the intense debates here in the house are an expression of our long struggle for the rule of law, an expression of a union that is fighting for its values, with the establishment of instruments, with the reform of instruments. it is about our fundamental values: the separation of powers, the neutrality of institutions and procedures, freedom of the press, the protection of minorities, the fight against corruption, and nothing less than the fundamental trust between member states. we are all passionate about this and we have fought for the rule of law mechanism for good reasons. with so much at stake, we can't afford to make a mistake. that is why it is clear today at the latest that the mechanism must be drawn. because we're pulling the mechanism for the first time, it has to be legally and politically sound. the commission has already said that any action against the application of the directive against the commission for its application must not be a risk to the mechanism itself. but with today's important ruling, the way is clear. the time is more than ripe. our goal as a union must remain to strengthen each other in the face of adversity. let's focus our full strength on those who question our values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm gonna come out today, i'm an old white man, and i love women. and that's why i fight with all my heart for equality and against the oppression of women. i am all the more appalled to see what the eu is and what it values: it is important for the eu to recognise that women are disproportionately affected by climate change. it is also important to promote the implementation of targeted gender equality measures in conjunction with gender mainstreaming in climate policy. it also finds that women and girls are the most likely to be climate refugees, at 80%. and also a huge scandal is that only 32% of the renewable energy workers are women. what a scandal! so i personally have other problems: i have problems with oppression and exploitation of women, i have a problem with violence against women, i have a problem with sexual assault against women, i have a problem with child marriage, i have a problem with forced marriage, and i have a problem with genital mutilation. and all this is happening, for example, in north africa and the middle east, and in the country where the situation is worst for women: this is afghanistan, before the taliban, when this puppet government was still in power, supported by the eu with 4 billion euros - 4 billion! and all of that has come to nothing. so i'm interested in other things. and we should finally get down to the real issues and be honest with each other. the enemy of women is not climate change. the enemy of women is islam. it is the fundamental misogynist ideology of islam.
mr president, our response to climate change is a magnifying glass for gender discrimination around the world, but also in our own institutions. eighty per cent of the people displaced by climate change are women. only 10% of the aid provided for local solutions goes to women, and only 0.2% of the funding goes to women—led organisations. while women are most affected by climate change, they receive the least support. and even though women prioritise climate action higher than men, they still do not sit at the key decision—making tables. in recent cops women only received one quarter of the speaking time in plenary, and amongst the chief negotiators, women are largely absent, packed off into informal track-two workshops. so when it comes to climate change or climate action, we are doing the same old mistakes on resources and representation. i hope the upcoming un commission on the status of women is the moment to change that, because it needs to change profoundly.
mr president, madam commissioner, the covid-19 pandemic has prevented the implementation of effective climate action and has thus led to the exacerbation of already existing social and gender inequalities. climate change and gender equality are linked. gender inequality, associated with climate and environmental crises and disasters, disproportionately affects women who are victims of intersectional discrimination, such as women with disabilities, black women and older women. with climate change, many women have found themselves in situations of extreme vulnerability and precariousness. we are also concerned that the adverse effects of climate change, often accompanied by a deterioration in the socioeconomic situation of women, could lead to serious violations of their fundamental rights. the european union must therefore adopt a clear and unified position on how to achieve gender equality in the context of the fight against climate change. only through the meaningful and effective participation of women and girls, in all their diversity, in decision-making bodies at all levels will we achieve a real climate transition.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the daughter of a french mother and a german-swiss father who now lives in spain, i myself live in southern germany. and like you, ladies and gentlemen, we are working in belgium and france. and of course, it is not just us members of parliament who are dealing with this, but many people in the eu live and work across borders. for the past two years, we've been going through a very difficult time in this pandemic. and here again, my heartfelt condolences to all those who have lost loved ones or who have suffered greatly or are still suffering. as europeans, freedom of movement within our internal borders is and remains in our dna. and even if it was not possible at times for health reasons, just in the short term, the eu has done everything possible to make it possible. the uniform covid certificate was quick to come and made things easier. but today, the pandemic is different, and national rules are more confusing. so my questions to you are: what concrete steps can the commission take to harmonize the current rules and, above all, to make them clearer to the public? how can the commission ensure that the use of allowances remains proportionate and evidence-based? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we might be able to find the weaknesses of the chosen tool or assumptions. or what mechanisms in the member states would have helped to coordinate the certificate better?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the great opportunity for an eu-wide toll system that is both socially just and good for the environment is being squandered with this reform. the climate emergency is so great that 72% of co2 emissions from transport are still attributable to the road. we still see the same wheeled halls every day in europe. of course, the whole truck toll thing isn't very sexy. but to achieve our common goal of the green deal, this instrument would be so predestined. the reform, while it touches on a number of issues, is full of exceptions and loopholes. as greens, we believe that road transport must not be given any more priority over rail in 2022. the main objective of the reform - that is why it was introduced - of establishing the polluter principle in road transport and also of mapping the true social costs, thus setting the stage for a profound transformation of transport, is being missed. the railway will continue to be subject to a compulsory toll, while road tolls will remain optional. there is no earmarking of the revenue from the toll for the extension of the railway. a vignette, which is essentially a flat rate without any steering effect, will continue to be possible. and the major external costs, such as noise, are hardly taken into account. now a majority in this parliament is backing this reform. we have to accept that. but i do want to make a few points: the introduction of regional surcharges - as the honourable member has said - which would reduce the high traffic burden in sensitive areas such as the alpine regions, is, in the present version, subject to the agreement of all the neighbouring countries. and to change that, we are proposing our amendments nos 1 and 2 and others. i would ask you to accept these important suggestions for improvement. i'm sure we can renegotiate with the council. we've earned it in europe.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. last year we were talking about the spring frosts which had caused a great deal of damage to the vine and fruit growers of southern europe. today we are talking about drought and drought on the iberian peninsula. what do you think we're gonna be talking about next year? i am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that the farmers - and i am the son of a farmer - are suffering such heavy losses and have no reserves to compensate for them. thank god there is an eu fund for natural disasters, but i think it should only be used to compensate small farmers. natural disasters come and go. the iberians have known droughts for centuries and have adapted their farming methods to these droughts. the many oak forests are a testimony to this. they also knew that someone else was in charge of the weather and that the one who sent the storm would not abandon these people. but let's get back to the point. what can we do? what should we do? let us learn from israel. we see that droughts do not have to be catastrophic if we learn how to extract water from the sea - the iberian peninsula is almost completely surrounded by the sea - and if we use scarce resources effectively and efficiently through sophisticated technical irrigation systems. i have seen with my own eyes how well this works and have been able to enjoy the result of this effort, a delicious israeli wine from samaria. iberos, learn from israel, plant vineyards, even if it is not something that this house wants to hear. and practice conserving water. then you will not need any future eu aid payments and i can look forward to a good portuguese wine.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, in front of you stands a proud member of the parliament. thanks to the persistency of this parliament, we achieved a big step forward in the protection of workers from occupational exposure to carcinogens, mutagens and reprotoxins. the biggest step forward entails the intention of the aforementioned directive with reprotoxic substances that adversely affect the ability of men and women to reproduce, and pose a threat to fertility. protection against exposure to these substances is now legally covered. this is important for almost two million workers across the eu prevailing in sectors varying from agriculture and care, to petrochemicals and maintenance services. this update also provides more and better training for care workers on the potential hazardous impact of exposure to hazardous medicinal products. this is highly important for the millions of carers handling these products, such as oncology nurses. they put their own health in danger for saving the lives of others, whereas there are ways to protect them. but the work is not done yet. as greens, we are looking forward to keep on seeking better protection. we look forward to future updates – 25 additional substances are still to be included and we need to establish a risk-based methodology to set exposure limits. we cannot allow that even one single worker gets sick or even dies due to a lack of protection. we need to care for those who care for us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. let me be quite frank: european social policy, many people turn off and think: 'this has nothing to do with me, it does not concern me, most of it is decided at national level anyway.' here, european policies show that european policies save lives, hundreds of thousands of lives - in case of doubt, your colleagues, your friends, your relatives. and that's why it's important that we all come together and say, we've done a lot here, but we have to go a lot further, because there are still a lot of people who are sick at work, who are dying because they go to work every day and do their jobs. and that's why we want to make sure that even more substances that are carcinogenic, that are genetically altered, are taken in, and that we make sure that our goal is that we have zero deaths from work, because work should not make you sick, work should not kill you. and that's why we have to be much more ambitious here. in this sense, support the directive, put pressure on it!
author. – mr president, since president rodrigo duterte took office, the human rights situation in the philippines has eroded in a landslide. there has been an appalling number of extrajudicial killings and human rights violations. this has been going on for years. this house last asked the commission to act in 2020, and it pains me that the commission has in fact not acted. the only thing that has happened since is that human rights in the philippines have worsened. more filipinos have suffered. in fact, the un high commissioner for human rights estimates that between 12 000 and 30 000 people have been killed in duterte’s so-called war on drugs. around 6 000 people lost their lives during police drug raids alone. for me, as a democrat, it is unbelievable that president duterte personally encouraged extrajudicial executions and even promised immunity to perpetrators. another way – and i’m sad to say this, but a popular way – to silence anyone who does not support the regime is the alleged fight against communism. the so—called red—tagging has even been institutionalised in the anti-terrorism law. this red—tagging is the procedure where the authorities link organisations and individuals to communist groups and use this as an excuse for killings, threats, warrantless arrests, harassment and sexual violence against human rights defenders, opponents and journalists. one can ask now, what leverage does the european union even have to react to this? trade policy. the generalised system of preferences (gsp), the preferential access to the single market, is a tool to support less-developed countries in their economic growth. it is a tool to help communities and individuals enhance their opportunities through trade. but this access comes with conditions, and respect for human rights is the most important requirement a country has to meet to even qualify for these preferences. the philippines does not respect the agreed human rights standards and still the regime profits from these trade benefits. i have said it many times before, and i will repeat it today: the european union is not yet the diplomatic power we strive to be, but we are an economic power, promoting value—based trade. but this will only stay true if, while we wholeheartedly advocate for free trade, we also make sure that the agreed conditions are actually met. colleagues, i’m going to be very precise. today, we ask the commission to set clear goals and benchmarks and, if there is no substantial improvement and willingness from the philippines government to actually meet their human rights obligations under gsp, then we expect you to withdraw the trade preferences. this house will no longer accept inactivity and we will not compromise on our european values.
author. – mr president, some of you may remember it, 17 months ago, we already had a resolution on the philippines. like many of you, i spoke back then and for some reason my video was dragged all over filipino news. troll armies were sent out against me, i had 35 000 hate comments on my facebook page and i have to admit i was glad i could just close my laptop and turn all of this off. i was glad i was not in the philippines and it was just cyberattacks. that’s a privilege our activist and politician colleagues in the philippines do not have. my friend, the nobel peace prize winner, maria ressa, faces dozens of lawsuits, so—called slapp cases made up just to intimidate her. and only yesterday she was once more denied to travel outside of the country. my training partner in the parliamentarian solidarity programme of this parliament, sarah elago, is being attacked. it means the government initiates campaigns against her to brand her as communist, as terrorist, even her minor siblings are drawn into it, with their pictures all over fake news sites. and we know that these kind of attacks lead to also attacks in real life and sometimes even murder. the philippines, the country that was once known for the most vibrant civil society in asia, has seen more than 220 killed human rights defenders in the last six years. maria ressa often says democracy dies by a thousand cuts. frankly said, this country has seen more than one thousand cuts. in may, there will be presidential and parliamentary elections. they could bring about change if only the process behind it were free and fair. the eu has offered to send an election observation mission. i want to thank eas for that. but the philippine government has bluntly ignored this request. it’s important now that the eu delegation, but also the embassies of all member states, do everything they can to support local election observations and raise problems that they observe with the philippine authorities. and it is important, and all my colleagues have underlined that, that we send a clear signal to any new government. if the human rights situation in the philippines does not improve significantly, the country’s special privileges under the gsp+ scheme will be revoked. we have a very broad majority in the parliament behind this. last time, dear commissioner, you ignored it. we will not let this happen again.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we can all agree on the analysis. it is, unfortunately, very, very shocking, clear and unambiguous and shameful for such a country. and the question now remains: what can we do about it? the philippines is an island nation, far away from us. can we really intervene here? can we really make a difference here? i am asking you about the commission. if you can do something, you must do it, you should do it. but please consider carefully: who will be affected by these measures? because there are over 100 million people living on these many islands, and it's not their fault that they have a president like that. they can vote him out, of course, but you all know it doesn't work like it might work with us. and so i urge you to consider carefully: if you were to close down this privileged status, this market access, who are you really meeting in the end? that is the question, the all-important question. and other than that, we have to admit, there's not much we can do. we must also say to ourselves in a certain way: we cannot interfere and we do not want to interfere in things. if we cannot succeed even here in the western balkans, for example, in enforcing the rule of law after 20 years - this is what the court of auditors has found in a study - if we cannot succeed here, how can we succeed in the philippines? so ultimately, there is only hope that the sons will not follow in their fathers' sins and that they may deliver a better regime.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. i am grateful for the ecr resolution and also for this debate here, that we are talking about the death penalty in iran. and i hope and pray that it will serve to save the lives of political prisoners and that we will also be sensitized to the unspeakable suffering of persecuted christians and baha'is. i cannot help feeling that some of us, ladies and gentlemen, are not very much in favour of these resolutions, or only halfheartedly. and i don't understand why. you're against the death penalty, too. what reason could there be to vote against the resolution? you don't want to piss off the mullahs and continue to do lucrative business with them? please be honest with yourself. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator in the world. make it clear that there can be no further cooperation, let alone eu funding, until iran abandons its inhumane policies and also its hatred of israel. let us take a clear course here and help the persecuted christians in iran, especially the converts, so that they can live again without fear of death. and let us also help the baha'is who, despite the guarantee of religious freedom, cannot practice their religion at all. i was particularly shocked by the honour killing of 13-year-old romina aschrafi, who was executed by her own father in her sleep. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i'm sure god will reward you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday, 17 february 2022.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the political crisis in burkina faso (2022/2542 (rsp)) i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it has just been mentioned that the situation in the sahel is a difficult one, a region marked by instability. at the moment - it has just been said - it is the fourth coup d'état in a country of the region. and i think that we as europeans also have to ask ourselves a bit: what is the role that we have played in the region and what is the role that we want to play in the future? we are discussing this issue of the european union's role at the summit with the african union. and i hope that we as the european union will be an equal partner with the african countries and contribute to the return of stability and security in the region. because the situation in burkina faso, which we are talking about today, is characterized by a number of terrorist attacks. it has just been said by maria arena: some 7 000 victims, 1.5 million displaced persons in the country. and this situation of insecurity, these terrorist attacks have been an unbearable situation for the population, so this coup d'état is in a large measure a reaction to the feeling of lack of security that the government of burkina faso has not been able to guarantee. i would also like to say at this point that we must not neglect or lose sight of the fact that russian mercenaries from the wagner group are also very active in the region and that we as europeans must be careful that these russian mercenaries are not seen as a solution to security problems. because, ladies and gentlemen, these russian mercenaries are not the solution to security problems, they are only exacerbating those problems. i invite the burkinabe to return to the path of democracy and to return to constitutional order. i call on the military forces currently in power to guarantee a peaceful transition, with a clear timetable, for the return to elections or a clear and democratic electoral process, so that burkina faso can return to the ranks of democracy. on this journey, in this quest, burkina faso will have the full support of the european union.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm having another déjà vu today. we talk about situations in countries that have problems that go to the bottom of the sea, and we wonder why we can't offer solutions. we are obviously a powerless organization, because we can do almost nothing. today, these talks with the african union are beginning in a wonderful way. but will it lead to a solution for burkina faso? i don't think it was. why would you do that? because we just don't have any leverage to go on. and i think that's what we have to think about: how can we help these people there, these 1.5 million displaced people? that's almost 10 percent of the entire population. this is terrible. and we have no solution at all. there's no point in sending money. we all know that. this is going into the military's pockets. we also know that there are many things that we simply cannot enforce. it's good to call for democracy. but as i said earlier today, we cannot even do it in the western balkans, how can we do it in africa? and that 's why: we have to ask the question: what role do the islamists play in this whole story? why is the sahel not calming down? what solutions are needed? and i think it's more that the african states have to help themselves. we must release them into self-reliance. we have this kind of paternalistic approach, this kind of moral imperialism and colonialism. this has got to stop. and we cannot make them dependent on their vaccination status in any way, that we require these countries to be fully vaccinated. this has to stop, or we can never help these countries, and they will never rest.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday, 17 february 2022. the meeting is adjourned. it will resume at 1 p.m. with the announcement of the results of the first round of voting. (the sitting was suspended at 12.30 p.m.)
i would inform the house that the president has received the motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 195. i give the floor to mr dzhambazki for a minute.
we'll take that under advisement. the proceedings are continuing. the political groups and the non-attached members informed the president of the appointments of the members of the delegations. the list of the names of the delegations shall be published on parliament's website.
i now come to the announcement of the results of the first round of voting today. (the president declared the results of the first round of voting to be adopted) the sitting is closed. it will be resumed at 1.45 p.m. with the opening of the second round of voting. the following table shows the see minutes of the sitting. (the sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m.)
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is important and necessary that the eu protects designations of origin and geographical indications. they are a kind of copyright, and we do well to protect that intellectual property in the future. that is why we are supporting our friends in italy in this case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is also to protect workers and to protect consumers, so that they know what they are getting. but you should be careful, madam commissioner, that the design of these protective rights does not introduce new bureaucratic obstacles which make internal trade difficult and which in the end are even harmful to the business of the protected producer. if you take all of that into account, you can't really go wrong. you should have a prosecco. that's my wish, because i've never heard of prosek in my entire life. i hate to say it, but i've had a lot of prosecco. i would like to ask the commission to clarify this point, simply to put an end to the confusion which is associated with it. it is not possible for these two concepts to stand side by side. it's just confusing.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. as the son of a farmer, i know very well how difficult it is when not only the droughts we had at the beginning of this morning, but also the price increases make the life of a farmer almost impossible. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that would not eliminate the problem, it would make it bigger. what can we do? i want to remind you of two things: we have an ecb which is responsible for fighting inflation. what's she doing about it? mrs lagarde calms down and says, "it's just a bump". but the farmers say, "that's not a valley, that's a mountain, that's a himalaya. and we need solutions urgently. please, mrs lagarde, fight the inflation. and the second is, i got a letter yesterday from my gas supplier. the price of the gas i get is going up 70%. what are we doing about gas prices? and i ask you to consider the following: please open nord stream 2 so that finally more gas can flow to europe and the price can come down.
mr president, slava ukraini! we did not ask for this confrontation. ukrainians did not ask for this confrontation. ukrainians didn’t spread hate. ukrainians didn’t dream of empires. ukrainians did not dictate their neighbours what policies to follow and which alliances to join. ukrainians did not occupy, did not annex and did not blackmail. those actions came from moscow, and my heart is bleeding when i say those words. but ukrainians, all they want is to live a free life in a free country. this is not much to ask, but this is a lot to defend. and this is why it is our european moral imperative to help, to help ukrainians with refuge and money, but yes, also with military equipment to help them defend their own choice, to help them save their children, their families, their loved ones, the loved ones who take arms and walk to battles, help them to return. and yes, this is why we have no other options than to put a clear alternative in front of president putin. either you stop this war now, or you will have to bear the consequences that will be devastating. we did not ask for this confrontation. you did.
in writing. i condemn putin's invasion of ukraine, but i have serious doubts that the instruments chosen in this resolution are the right way forward. if article 42 of the resolution welcomes measures affecting russian sportsmen and cultural workers, i am sure that it is not the right people who are being addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states and other countries on the issue of the nuclear deal. i am not sure that the citizens of the member states are intelligent enough to decide for themselves what they consider to be right and wrong, using the means at their disposal. it does not need a patronage in the sense of selection by the eu. and those who, like commission president von der leyen in paragraph h of this resolution, call for ukraine to join the eu are pouring more oil into this conflict instead of de-escalating and acting prudently. we will be hitting ourselves first and foremost with these sanctions, because we need security of supply and affordable prices. the opposite is what this resolution will bring about.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner ferreira, dear colleagues and most importantly, dear europeans, currently we are facing two devastating crises: the climate crisis, but most importantly, of course, russian war on european soil. these lead to great uncertainty, but not what is uncertain – that’s quite clear. we know what we want to do. we want to become independent from russian fossil fuels by extending our energy efficiency and renewable energies like wind and solar. this will hurt russia now and make europe stronger in the long term. we know we want to help those who help refugees. poland, hungary, bulgaria, romania and the whole european union says refugees are welcome and we need to support those people. we know that we want to strengthen the eu’s unity through cohesion. economic prosperity in all regions brings the european people together, and a united europe will perceive any crisis. the uncertainty, though, is how we reach those goals. in this uncertainty, we need, on the one hand, strategic stoicism, on the other, localised expertise. the commission needs to ensure that even under these time constraints and the russian aggression, our strategic goals, and the means, will be kept, including the rule of law. most importantly, though, the commission must ensure that the partnership principle is valued and that local expertise is included. partnership agreements that do not include those means must be rejected, even if we are facing time constraints. the solution to this less time is more efficient spending of money through local experts. leader has shown us that it can be spent very wisely and we should use clld and leader approaches in the partnership agreements. lastly, let’s be honest, we also have to criticise ourselves (i’ll be finished in a second) that we have taken too long to finish this. it was a problem from the member states also, to not have taken the time accordingly, but that should not end up hurting the regions, and we must ensure that this comes out in the end and that they get a little bit more time in the end to use the money accordingly.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's a good day when i can agree with you on a lot of things. it is also a first, and i hope that you will now actually implement what the committee has been asking for a long time. mrs in veld said: of course there are also sensible investment programmes, but the problems of corruption, tax evasion, money laundering, but also the rising property prices are major problems for the citizens of the respective state. the only thing i have a real problem with here, although everyone likes it, is the suddenly and quickly introduced tribal prison for all russians. so, naturally, you wonder, didn't you know who putin was? does the name politkovskaya mean anything to you? does the name boris nemtsov mean anything to you? do the conflicts in crimea, donetsk and luhansk mean nothing to you? we have to be very careful, because we are not going to be able to do anything. and what if we all look at the russian oligarchs now? what about the african warlords? what about the war criminals? what about the chinese communists, the high party officials? and what about the arab despots who also bought themselves golden visas everywhere? we say that european values are not for sale. but for me - i am now a lawyer - the individual responsibility and the individual responsibility for european values are also good. and i find it extremely problematic that we're introducing clan confinement here. i know this is a difficult story, but we should all think about it. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but i can't make friends with the clan.
mr president, dear colleagues, a passport of an eu member state is valuable, provides freedom, provides protection and rights. it’s not because of any one member state, but it is because of schengen and the european union that all our passports are valuable. you might ask how valuable? well, member states malta, cyprus, portugal will charge you up to two million euros to get one. and let’s not fool ourselves: such a price tag does not attract the brightest scientists or entrepreneurs. it opens the door for corrupt oligarchs and criminals. golden passports support corruption inside the european union. we have pointed to the freeloader countries for years, but the real issue is that it shouldn’t even be possible for any one member state to sell something that belongs to the 27 member states collectively. the rules on how european passports are handed out should be european rules. indeed, there should be one european passport, one that is not for sale, but one that represents our shared values: democracy, self-determination, freedom and the protection from the enemies of democracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, thank you to anna, and on behalf of erik, i would like to thank everyone – the rapporteur, shadows and technical staff, for the great collaboration on this report. it’s a very timely report indeed. the recent intensified crackdown on civil society in belarus and russia shows one important truth: an organised civil society is a horror for any form of autocratic leadership because it shows if and how they fail their societies. but we don’t need to look that far. sadly, we see civil society organisations also being targeted and limited in our own member states. some leaders don’t want to allow societies to correct their mistakes. i’ve witnessed systematic persecution and criminalisation in the field of migration, an area where all our governments are currently failing. and the recent events in ukraine show another and more humane face for europe in that matter. so let us build on this humane europe and show that every human being is worth saving, no matter how far they’ve travelled and no matter what their skin colour. let us build a humane europe, commissioner, by supporting civil society organisations, ensuring sufficient funding for csos and developing a green strategy for safeguarding civic spaces in the eu.
the commission has already done so. shrinking spaces, shrinking fields of activity for civil society: this is nothing but fake news. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what are civil societies? civil society is what is commonly referred to as ngos or now in modern german as npos non-profit organizations . in fact, there is nothing more behind it than lobbyists. and if you talk to people at europol, as i did recently, you will find there are very clear concerns. they talk about how many ngos have already been infiltrated by organized crime, and also that many ngos are used to launder money. but unfortunately the european parliament does not look into this. but above all, ngos or what is called civil society here are a concrete theoretical problem of democracy. at least in germany, they say: "all state power comes from the people". it does not say that all state power comes from civil society and lobby groups. but that is precisely what happens when the eu, and indeed the countries, give more and more money to such lobby groups. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. civil society is not, as has been said here more often, a guarantor of democracy, but it is an acute threat, and that is why all funding should be stopped.
(mike turns off) ...for weeks: what are you afraid of? what is the bulgarian government afraid of when it wants to ban a renowned human rights organisation, the helsinki group? what is the cypriot government afraid of when it bans a well-known anti-racist organisation? what is the orbán government afraid of when it bans organizations just because they want to help other people, refugees or the lgbti community? i know what it is: fear that there are people helping people and empowering people, people who make a democracy, who make our democracy. and mr fest can repeat that as long as he wants. that is part of our democracy. these organizations are not dependent on the goodwill of their governments. it is not a privilege, it is a right, a written right to freedom of association. and that is what the report is about, and i thank the rapporteur for that.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not no one may be discriminated against or favoured on the grounds of sex, descent, race, language, home and origin, religion, religious or political beliefs - so article 3 of the german constitution, to which i feel fully committed, and similarly article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. but the house has a rather disturbed relationship with fundamental rights. they are more or less applicable or are withdrawn altogether, as the case may be. today we have a comprehensive report with proposals to combat racism, while just last week we celebrated an unthinkable renaissance of racism in this house. in a resolution adopted last week, this house expressly welcomed sanctions in the cultural and sporting fields against russians. in germany, russian opera singers and conductors have already been fired and russian athletes suspended. the invasion of ukraine by putin is to be condemned in the strongest terms, but to punish russian sportsmen and cultural workers on the basis of their ethnic origin is pure racism. the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at the next voting time. this report does not provide any basis for combating racism. ladies and gentlemen, identity politics is not about overcoming racism, but about taking us back on the right path to the very tribal societies that are the breeding ground for all that you claim to be fighting here. if you say no to racism, you must also say no to identity politics. and the seriousness with which the fight against racism is being taken up in this house is shown by the fact that of the 705 members present, not 25 are present. this is embarrassing!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is timely: it reinforces the european union's current efforts to combat the structural racism that i myself have experienced and that i have mentioned to you. however, we must step up concrete action in this respect, recognising the important role of the media, sport and culture, which can contribute to social cohesion and the abolition of racism. discrimination in sport is a recurring theme. it is observed that whenever black footballers miss a goal, they are called all kinds of names by the fans, as was the case during the football championships, and victims of hate speech on social networks. sport is an inclusive element that promotes integration. reporting in times of crisis, whether it's the pandemic or, now, russian aggression, reveals the persistence of racism, which we must actively deconstruct. the media as a whole has been reluctant to report on the situation of african refugees from ukraine, mostly students. they were forced to shout, "we are students, not criminals!" because they knew that there was prejudice against them. they were thus subjected to racism at the borders of neighbouring countries and their testimonies were called into question, according to fake news. racism is reflected in the hierarchy of refugees, which is contrary to the vienna convention and the values of the european union. black and white, we want to build the europe where everyone can flourish, according to the motto of the european union: "united in diversity".
i have to say, madam president, the eu is also calling for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. in fact, europeans want to help displaced ukrainians. but according to the results of the large insa migration survey, 80% of europeans also want more border security. over 80% want to see an end to unskilled migration, and 75% believe that migration will be a problem for personal security, the survival of social systems and/or our cultural identity. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her very cooperative approach during the course of writing this report. putin’s russia is at war with ukraine and, with that, putin is challenging the entire democratic world. the current war is fought not only with guns, but also with disinformation. eighteen months ago, we decided to combat disinformation. today, russia’s actions are the reason for this report’s existence. democracy should never be taken for granted and needs to be built, practised and defended. those who wish to harm us compromise our democracy by interfering in our elections, co—opting our officials, and spreading disinformation. actors such as russia and china choose these methods only because they do not fear to be held accountable, because these methods have high profits and still very low cost. a firm and resolved response is overdue. we need to establish a comprehensive sanctions regime that will deter any foreign interference. for the sanctions to work properly, we need to close the loopholes and take the following actions. firstly, coordination among the member states is paramount: united we stand, divided we fall. we need to strive for unity in the eu, and this requires strengthening our crucial institution. eeas stratcom must become more independent and a much stronger voice in the eu. disinformation is best fought by information. we have to provide russian and chinese courses, and not the confucius institute or any kind of russky mir. independent, fact—based journalism is the cornerstone of democracy, and we need to protect our critical infrastructure. digital platforms need to put the credibility of content before profit. the world where disinformation is not countered is dangerous and scary. a very sad example is putin’s russia, where propaganda has reached dystopian levels, and where putin tries to intimidate its population into believing that a democratic ukraine, led by a president with jewish roots, is run by a genocidal nazi regime. critical thinking is the best remedy against foreign interference on the continent of enlightenment. critical thinking is already part of our eu’s dna. this needs to be further strengthened, all this while safeguarding our fundamental values of freedom of expression, assembly and education. i hope we stay on the right side of history.
the commission has already done so. i was just about to say something nice about mr borrell, and then he leaves. that's the way it is. but, mr borrell, i see you up there again. you are right: correct information is the basic ingredient of democracy. unlike many in the inge committee, however, i have worked as a journalist for a long time and therefore know: yes, false information exists, by accident, from lies, when you are lied to, but also when you are exploited. and the main source of this misinformation is usually either the economy or politics. mr glucksmann has said it: the main source of information for the pro-putin propaganda was for years mr schröder, but then also mrs merkel, who also supported and promoted all the gas supply contracts with mr schröder, and also always with the help of the current president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, who then ruined the german armed forces at the same time. so, misinformation and propaganda is always out there. we've seen this in the iraq war, we've seen this in the refugee crisis, and the antidote to misinformation and propaganda is good journalism. and that's the problem. we have today - at least in germany - editors-in-chief who are no longer interested in the truth, but in the attitude of journalists, that is, in their ideological attitude. the media as the fourth force has largely failed, and therefore the controlling body to distinguish between propaganda and truth is also missing. we have seen this in numerous media scandals in germany, especially the mirror under claas relotius. the problem is that the media is getting less and less funded, and therefore can hardly afford good journalism that really investigates. i don't know how to solve this problem, but certainly no solution is a ministry of truth. mr borrell said he didn't want a ministry of truth. but in fact the recommendations made here by the inge committee are exactly in that direction. you want to set up fact-checkers and things like that. but fact-checkers are also people who usually have an agenda and are paid by someone, in this case, doubtful, the eu. and that means that they are not independent and neutral either, but have a certain direction of purpose. there are no algorithms that can check the truth. so the only thing that can be said is that if journalism is no longer a source of truth, and we no longer allow the free exchange of opinions -- including opinions that we may not like, including opinions that may be wrong, including opinions that may be funded by foreign powers -- then we have a society that is ruled by censorship, we have a society that is actually like orwell's 1984. we're seeing this in russia. russia has passed a disinformation law. this is basically the very picture of what's coming. many media outlets have stopped their work because the work in russia is becoming too dangerous for free journalists at the moment. that is exactly what will happen here if we impose severe penalties on false information. in that respect, mrs jourová, i disagree with you. it's not about the inge. inge is not only unnecessary, it is downright dangerous, because with inge we are walking into a censorship state.
madam president, putin’s invasion of democratic ukraine shows that democracy is under siege. the shelling with bombs and missiles was preceded and is now flanked by a bombardment of propaganda, fake news and dirty money. there’s a widespread and coordinated attack by the world’s autocrats on democracy, on open societies, on our way of life. we all know this didn’t just start two weeks ago, but it’s been going on for years and is well documented by this committee. autocrats in russia and china, azerbaijan and elsewhere are spending billions to determine the news we read, the social media posts we see, and they’re paying massive amounts to buy politicians, like the german former chancellor gerhard schröder, or entire political parties, some of which sit here in this house. these actors do not seek to enrich our debates. they want to divide our societies. they want to destroy our democracies, because they fear nothing more than the truth and open societies that openly speak it out. the eu has been too naive. we have ignored the threats for far too long. we’ve done too little to make the money flows transparent. we have not done enough to fight corruption and bribery. and most of all, we have been far too divided, because if we seek to combat this with 27 different national approaches, this is not going to work. so we have to have a resolute democratic defence. we need to make the money flows transparent and we need to stand together as europeans and have a joint approach to this threat from the outside.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the sanctions also banned russian broadcasters rt and sputnik for spreading disinformation about the russian government. it is surprising that in democratic countries freedom of expression should be restricted in order to defend oneself against russian war propaganda. who watches that? in the analog world, almost no one. but on the internet, especially rt, the superstar. in 2020, rt was the most watched channel on youtube. and why is that? simply because the social media algorithms, especially google's youtube, which always flushes rt's posts to the top, offer proactively. why would you do that? because these posts confuse and upset people with false information. and then they stay online longer, and then you can show them more ads. because disinformation, russian war propaganda, is money to be made. so we need clear rules on transparency, on algorithmic systems and on data collection bans that allow platforms to target this content to groups that are receptive to it. this data collection also allows foreign states to manipulate targeted population groups in our country. all this is being called for by parliament in the trilogue on the digital services act. i call on the member states to finally comply with these demands and to take a decision in the next few weeks. then we won't have to ban media in the free world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for many years, we have been arguing that democracy is in danger. we have a lot of studies that show that we have more autocratic countries in the world today than democracies, and that we are back to where we were in 1990. and it is very clear - and that is why i am very pleased about raphaël glucksmann, about the whole group that is now putting forward proposals - how we can strengthen resilience in europe, namely democratic resilience. we have seen in the debate that the crack also runs through this house. i would therefore like to point out once again that it is not just a few bombs that say: we must also protect our democracy much more strongly. we have disinformation not only from foreign countries, we have it from governments within the eu, and we cannot be blind to that either. but it is the citizens who have made this proposal to us in the conference on the future, in the working group, and are asking us to make sure - in their proposal no. 28 - that we really do have to spend significant financial and human resources to really stop disinformation, and that we actually also have to support civil society here much more, that we have to make sure that we strengthen media literacy, and that we also present appropriate sanctions against, for example, these big platforms that are not doing enough to stop it. so let's get to it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. disinformation is the seed of evil with the goal of eating into people's hearts. disinformation is not new, it's an ancient tool that's over 2,000 years old. something new is the digital platforms - not more than 20 years old, that's something new. and we're going to see where these digital platforms have led us. we see that it has led to the spread of radical parties throughout the european union, which communicate with each other, spread the same seed. we see that in a gigantic disaster like covid, our society is not closed, but divided into different radicals. we see it coming to brexit, and we see it coming to a brutal war of aggression by putin in the middle of europe against ukraine. we need to fight this cancer and take digital platforms to task. they earn excellent sums of money from their work and can also invest those sums in stopping this division of society.
i have to say, madam president, we are having this debate here today, on 8 march. this is international women's day, and a core demand for over 100 years is bread and roses for women. we now see that we have over two million - mostly women and children - who are seeking safety with us, seeking protection with us, and we are really seeing a wave of solidarity in europe. but what we can also see - and i was able to see this in berlin, i was in budapest last week - is that europe's strength in this situation is the active civil society in europe, which does not debate for long, which has rolled up its sleeves and is standing at the train stations everywhere helping people. governments alone, municipalities alone, could not have done this. i think this active civil society deserves great praise, great applause and great support. from bread to roses. we gave the refugees bread, a roof over their heads. but the next step has to be -- and this is where the communities need support -- that we find school places and kindergarten places for these refugee children, that we integrate them here. these regions need support, because you see, especially when you go to the border regions with ukraine, that these are also the poorest regions in these countries. that is why we must show much greater solidarity here. we must mobilize all the resources we have so that we can say at the end of the day: we have done it, not just at the beginning, but throughout the whole period.
madam president, when i volunteered in a large registration facility in berlin-reinickendorf last sunday, i saw the scars of war. those were people, but they looked like scars. i saw the eyes of young women and old babushka holding their grandchildren, looking lost in the cold and grateful for a cup of warm soup and shelter in the container. just two weeks ago, they had been happy. there were families, workers, teachers, lawyers. they had a life, a different life. it is instrumental that we help them to fight their way back to a life that is a little bit normal. i heard so many of them who are grateful that they could benefit from the temporary protection directive that will allow them to stay, live and work in safety. but there are issues that go beyond the obvious. we must make sure that russian and belarusian citizens fleeing from ukraine have also a chance of safety here. they had escaped from lukashenko and putin, and now putin and lukashenko are getting to them. they must also be safe in europe. we must also remember the new wave of russian immigrants after the tv dozhd and echo moscow radio stations were banned and it has become impossible and penalised to talk the truth about the war in russia. those waves of refugees are fleeing a country sliding to despotism. when i volunteered and i looked at those refugees, i felt sad and horrified, but i also felt proud, proud that this time the european union seems to be on the right, on the humane side of history. let’s continue helping, and let’s do it right.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you said the eu had acted quickly and effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the poles, the romanians, the slovaks and also hungary have acted quickly and effectively, without consulting the eu in detail. the polish and hungarian people in particular were, however, until yesterday the cold racists for the eu, who allegedly had no heart for refugees. now poland alone has taken in 1.2 million refugees. if the u.s. did something like that, it would be about eight million now. when - and this is a crucial question - will the european commission actually apologize for this continuing slander of the poles and hungarians? it's about time. it is true that the poles, hungarians, slovaks and romanians take in mainly women and children. ukrainian men are defending their country. and the ukrainian women and children don't want any asylum for long. most of the time, they're looking for relatives or friends to hide out with. so you don't want government benefits either. and that, dear mrs johansson, is a fundamental difference from the other migrants, especially the african ones. most of them are not refugees - whoever moves through 30 peaceful countries is no longer a refugee - but social migrants who want to immigrate into the social systems. countries like poland and hungary do not want that, and neither do most other countries. the only ones who want that are, i think, you and the european commission. unfortunately, these migrants are now blocking the capacity to receive people in many countries, especially in germany, including my home city of berlin. berlin has to create new premises, but can't find them. and why is that? because of your, mrs johansson, flawed, insane, reality-blind migration policy. i therefore appeal to you to stop slandering poland and hungary. secondly, stop your unfortunate immigration policy. and thirdly, mrs johansson, you'd better stop yourself. it would be the best thing for this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european union is reacting with solidarity to putin's war of aggression against ukraine. it is right that we now activate the directive on the granting of temporary protection. as europeans, we open our europe and our hearts to welcome the refugees who have to flee ukraine. it is right now that we provide immediate help. however, support is needed for the countries which are organising the first intake. i firmly believe that we need to send the aid from easo and other agencies to poland, to hungary, to romania and to the other countries, and that in the end we probably also need a mechanism for distributing the refugees, at least if the power is not cut off. it is true that the directive on temporary protection also says that it is possible to take up work, and i would ask the member states to ensure that this actually happens, that children are educated, that students can continue their studies. ladies and gentlemen, we all don't know how long this war will last. we hope it will end soon, but we don't know how long it will last. that is why we must do everything we can today to ensure that people who flee to us find a home with us.
mr president, every morning when we wake to the live documentary of this terrifying war on social media, i feel helpless when i see the images of bombed streets, burning nuclear plants and lines of people fleeing. i feel helpless. but while our options within ukraine are limited, our options for helping those who are fleeing the war are not. that’s why i wanted to thank you very much, commissioner, for your swift action and for bringing all the countries together to grant legal protection so fast. and that’s why i want to thank everyone who’s opening their doors currently in poland, hungary, slovakia and romania, but also all across the continent. but much more needs to be done and we have to adapt to the situation and every moment. so, i would ask you, commissioner, to also ensure that everyone who’s fleeing is protected, no matter their skin colour or nationality – also the russians and belarussians fleeing their crazy tyrants. even if we decide that some can’t stay, please make sure that they’re all covered by health protection so that they can go to the hospitals to tend to their mental and physical wounds after fleeing. and please ensure that we have a new approach to the european asylum system, so that we can learn from this humane reaction to the fleeing refugees, in our new asylum system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when i say 'united in diversity', most people think of the european union. but i also think of the greatest strength that lies in bosnia and herzegovina. but this very equality and diversity has been blocked for 26 years by ethno-nationalists - not for the people, but for political calculation. but the forces are shifting to their disadvantage, not least because of putin's attack. the commission and you too, commissioner, must finally, out of shock, not make deals with agitators like milorad dodik, but sanction them, lend a hand to the brave men and women of civil society, strengthen the office of the high representative and support reforms. after 30 years of independence, i wish this beautiful country to be able to draw strength from its colorful and courageous society, with us as a reliable partner at its side.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. when we put this question for oral answer some time ago, no one could have imagined that we would not be discussing prices today but whether we will be able to heat our homes and supply our industry with energy in the european union next winter. it is now taking its revenge for the delay in the expansion of renewable energy and the failure to put a stop to the waste of energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. that is why we need an emergency plan now to expand renewable energy - no roof without solar energy - to modernise the energy of the most poorly insulated buildings, to provide free energy advice, especially for low-income households, and to promote energy advice, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are suffering very much from high prices. we are thus relieving the burden on our citizens' pockets and helping our companies, some of whose existence is threatened by the prices. but we must also do something in brussels. we need urgent procedures for the examination of all state aid to promote the development of renewable energy and efficiency measures. i would ask the directorate-general for competition to submit a proposal on this. it cannot be that a law like the new renewable energy law in germany is under consideration until december 2022 before it is approved. that's not how we get out of addiction. mrs simson, you have thankfully mentioned the subject of citizen energy and its importance. i ask you: how will the commission ensure that, given that the deadline has already expired nine months ago, that something finally happens in the implementation? how will you support the member states? i'd appreciate an answer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. gas and crude oil prices are rising faster and higher. russia is to blame for the shortage of natural gas and the manipulation of the price. i might. but the main culprit is the president of the european commission, mrs von der leyen. first, since taking office, she has replaced long-term supply contracts with spot contracts because she believed that gas demand would decline. but in fact, prices are going up. but the price tag is not the price tag, and the price tag hits the consumer hard. secondly, the green deal. the bank of spain simulated the effects of the co2 tax and transfer pricing. conclusion: spain's high inflation rate of over 6% will rise by another 1.5 percentage points. in the view of german economists, ecological policy contributes as much as one third to the rate of inflation. even the ecb's director, isabel schnabel, has now admitted that climate rescue is driving inflation. today is international women's day, and women are running europe. for 16 years, it was angela merkel who decided to give up nuclear power and save the climate in germany. the leyen, which gives germany the highest electricity prices in the world and the highest gasoline prices in europe, and christine lagarde, who finances the world rescue with negative interest rates, dispossesses savers and gradually makes the euro worthless. by 2030, we're going to be broke. but then the three most expensive women in europe, klaus schwab and elon musk, have long since escaped into their transhuman future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. gas prices are going up! gas prices are now almost twice as high as they were 12 months ago, +17% since the terrible war broke out. we are too dependent on russian gas, and we are too dependent on fossil fuels in general. the energy supply must be secured in the short term and the dependence on fossil fuels must be reduced in a consistent manner. people with low and middle incomes must not pay the price for putin's war of aggression. it is not enough to rely solely on long-term measures. we need national measures such as a noticeable increase in hartz iv rates in germany. but we also need a european gas price cap which ensures basic supplies at fair prices for all. a european fund can pay the difference to the suppliers at market price. a limitation to basic services would prevent the development of false incentives. we cannot leave the people in this crisis alone.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu needs a new energy policy. after putin's brutal attack on ukraine, including the nuclear meltdown, this is more urgent than ever. people are suffering from high energy prices, and companies are afraid of losing their competitiveness, their existence. we want europe to be completely independent of fossil fuel imports. such imports make us vulnerable and precisely not sovereign. we know that energy policy is security policy. we have to reduce our energy needs. we need more energy efficiency and 100 percent renewable energy as soon as possible. investing now in indirect electrification and green production technologies, in energy efficiency to save directly on gas imports: that is the way to a competitive industry! we are now calling on the commission to finally take more action on energy efficiency, to withdraw the delegated act on taxonomy and, above all, to present an emergency plan for a rapid energy transition. we need a strong european framework for carbon differentiation agreements and more pace and ambition for a sustainable energy policy. because it's good for our safety, good for the climate, good for the environment.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not i was 29 years old when i ran for the last european parliament. i had a lot of conversations about my political goals back then. but i have also been asked a surprising number of times whether i would like to have children, because that would be difficult to reconcile with such a mandate. because women in politics are reminded over and over again that they must not forget the kitchen table when they aspire to the tables of power. women who have an opinion are often singled out for hostility for their participation in public discourse. insult, humiliation or threat for me and other female politicians is part of our daily lives. it's part of a culture that's eager to push women out of the public eye. as a society, we must consistently oppose this culture of discrimination and hatred, solidarity and visibility. as parties, we need to put more resources and more commitment into encouraging women to work in politics, to strengthen their candidacies. only about 40% of our european parliament is made up of women. that is still good on the european average, but it cannot be enough. we need to make our parliaments more inclusive and family-friendly. there is no parental leave in our european parliament. living and working between three countries is a particular challenge. colleagues, let's make it possible for parental leave! let us enable young members of parliament to be parents and at the same time to continue to represent the votes of their constituents. because when i talk to young women about my work, the first question i'm often asked is, what discrimination do i experience as a woman in politics? because as girls, as teenagers, as adult women, in school, in the workplace, in politics, they are constantly confronted with the need to work against prejudice because of their gender. that gender no longer plays a role in individual opportunity and gender no longer plays a role in political participation, that's what i'm arguing for. we will start with ourselves and make the european parliament more equal. i would like to thank our co-rapporteurs and, above all, irene from my group for your important work.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the femm committee, euphemistically called the 'high level group' in the report, wants to push for gender parity in politics and elsewhere, but of course only in the executive, never in road building, garbage collection or among canal workers. the fact that the femm committee does not even submit itself to its own, repeatedly demanded, 50 per cent gender quota 35 of the 37 members are women shows once again that it is precisely in this committee that one mistakenly believes that hypocrisy replaces competence. but everywhere else, you just have to get the quota. in germany, electoral laws have already been amended in some of the länder to be immediately declared invalid by the landesverfassungsgerichte and to be declared unconstitutional by the bundesverfassungsgericht. normally, the story would end there. but where would we be if these people, gathered here, riding the high horse of their moral superiority, and crawling in the saddle of their know-it-all, allowed their beautiful new world, built on ideological nonsense, to be destroyed by constitutional principles? the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. what would really help to promote women in politics is simply to avoid blatant miscalculations such as mrs angela merkel, ursula von der leyen, now new to the process annalena baerbock. the extent to which these women have contributed to the consolidation of traditional role models cannot be captured by any report in the european parliament, let alone a thousand. which, in this case, wouldn't be so bad. the fact that the european parliament has been able to take part in the debate on the future of the community is a good example of the importance which its members attach to the importance of this parliament and its work. of the 705 members of parliament, 13 are present.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have other days of the year to deal with these so-called women's issues, not just one day. according to the world economic forum's 2021 global gender gap report, if current efforts continue, it will take the world 135.6 years to close the gender gap. the glass ceiling phenomenon remains a problem in various fields, political participation, position of business and economic decision-making. women still face a lot of prejudice, stereotypes and double standards and, of course, challenges. we need to raise awareness in society to understand how female politicians, with their passion and experience, make an immeasurable contribution to the quality and content of politics. women are not often in so-called positions of power, and that's clear to everyone. when we talk about this document, i think it also raises a lot of controversy. however, i do not have time to discuss them today. if women were given equal opportunities, gdp per capita in the european union could increase by €3.15 trillion by 2050. well, wouldn't that be great? if we take just one small step, if we introduce something different and make a change, then we really take a step forward. and finally, we care about the media. what's happening on the screen and off the screen is important because what you don't see is what you don't want to become, and women make up only 24 percent of the people we hear or read about in the news. this term is unlikely to end up in the headlines.
the debate is closed. the vote on this item will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. you have adopted another report on gender mainstreaming. as usual, you're throwing everything into confusion and fighting phantom enemy images. we are, therefore, as a right-wing party, of course in favour of equality between men and women. your perpetually false assumptions that it is otherwise are completely absurd and dishonest. but it is ridiculous that young, successful women politicians should be portrayed as victims of discrimination. the fact that they are female should not have hurt their careers, but on the contrary, promoted them. when female politicians are insulted, degraded and threatened, it is appalling, but it affects many politicians, regardless of gender. usually it's the nature of the medium. social media is corrupting the discourse for everyone. if you really want to fight for women's rights, then go to the countries from which the eu has received so much immigration in recent years. the gender gap is still very real there. you'd have my full support right away. instead, you're convincing young women that every setback they experience is because of their gender. it's narcissistic and it prevents personality development and adulthood.
the debate on the report by mrs chrysoula zacharopoulou, on behalf of the committee on development and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the eu action plan iii on gender equality (2021/2003 (ini)) (a9-0025/2022) will continue. i would remind members that there will be no catch-the-eye procedures or blue-card questions, as has been the custom.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, do you still remember how we chuckled at putin’s horse riding pictures, his long table that just got longer the more lies he was telling us? well today we know this man is peak toxic masculinity. and what we see in ukraine is the suffering that comes with a foreign policy that focuses on domination and aggression. what hides behind the term feminist foreign policy, on the other side, is the foundation for a badly needed different approach to foreign policy: one where the security of humans is more important than that of nations or empires; one where the diversity of perspectives is seen as an asset and not as a threat by those in power. so while we fight putin’s aggressions, while we define sanctions, while we increase military spending, let’s not lose sight of the kind of change to change the kind of foreign policy that got us in this mess in the first place. if you want peace, we will need to get rid of the patriarchal structures dominating today’s foreign policy, also in our own institutions. the gender action plan iii is an ambitious tool in the right direction: let’s implement it with full force, exactly because of the crisis we are seeing today.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, on international women’s day, many people seem to know what women really need, but the answer is very easy. they need equal access to power, but also to money. and the good news is that the eu gender action plan for external action is a very good step in the right direction. eighty-five per cent of all new actions need to incorporate gender as a significant or principal objective. twenty per cent of oda must be allocated to gender equality. we have gender-disaggregated data collection, gender budgeting, a system for tracking, monitoring and evaluating eu expenditure, gender impact assessment, gender parity in management positions. this is what we do in external action because we know that it works, because there’s ample evidence to prove that the economic, social and ecological outcome is better when women take the decisions. but what works for countries outside the eu would also work in europe. so why can’t we have the same high standards also in the eu? it is high time.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to start by thanking the european parliament, the deve and femm committees, and in particular the rapporteur, ms zacharopoulou, for this excellent report. with our gender action plan and our new programming under way, we have achieved visible results in a short period, and i would like to outline three important aspects of our good work. first, country-level implementation plans: for the first time ever, we have a shared strategic eu vision for promoting gender equality in over 120 partner countries. this is the result of the eu working as team europe in close cooperation with partner governments, civil society – including women’s organisations – and youth and the private sector. second, we are investing both politically and financially in gender equality. i am pleased to confirm today that our gender action plan iii (gap iii) target – which was successfully introduced into the neighbourhood, development and international cooperation instrument thanks to the support of this house – of 85% of gender-sensitive projects by 2025, is already almost in reach. after one year of implementation, preliminary indications show that 78% of all new projects in africa, asia and south america target gender equality: 78%. this is a significant increase compared to the previous years. the spotlight initiative also continues to achieve solid and promising results. for example, 84 laws to protect girls and women against violence have been strengthened or signed across 17 different countries. and third, capacity and resources. there has been a major effort to strengthen delegations’ gender expertise and capacities through training and awareness-raising. we are reinforcing our gender focal points network and encouraging gender-responsive leadership. the gender action plan has brought people together like never before. last november, we held the first annual structured dialogue on the implementation of gap iii, with great participation of civil society and women’s organisations. honourable members, we can commit to you that your report will contribute to this joint endeavour for a gender-equal world. and i would like to conclude by expressing my solidarity with the women and girls affected by the conflict in ukraine. the commission is working to support, protect and save lives, and this implies a gender-specific approach, too. in ukraine and all areas of violent conflict, we must ensure that women and girls’ needs are addressed, that women as human rights defenders and as members of the armed forces are protected, and that women’s role for a sustainable and peaceful tomorrow is strengthened.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what do you expect from the 21st century? i asked horst köhler that question. it will be the century of women, he said. i said, "why?" his answer: because they are more patient. horst köhler was president of the federal republic of germany and for four years managing director of the international monetary fund. in his numerous trips to africa, he advocated making the fight against poverty on the continent a key task for the imf. and he has always spoken with respect and reverence about the role of women there, fought for it a strong ally, not just today on international women's day. oksana sabuschko, the ukrainian writer, has also opened our eyes here in parliament today. putin's bombs, she says, we can't stop. but we are stronger in spirit. and that's what the equality action plan is about. gender equality is not only a fundamental human right, but a necessary prerequisite for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. so, too, do the united nations: reduce poverty rates, reduce multiple discrimination, recognize and pay for real working hours, reduce gender-based violence, improve access to health care, enable women to be promoted to leadership roles, and so on. i thank everyone who has contributed to the report - the rapporteur - and i will support it, even if i do not agree with it in all its aspects.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, the international day we are celebrating this year is a tragic one and our thoughts are with all these women in countries at war, whether in ukraine, the congo, yemen or ethiopia. that is why our gap iii report highlights the violence faced by women worldwide, such as sexual abuse, rape and all the outdated traditions such as female genital mutilation that affect the health of women and girls. empowerment cannot be achieved without the right to education and reproductive and sexual health for all women. this is why it is important to provide women with training that will enable them to be independent in the face of life's uncertainties. women living in these conflict zones are vulnerable targets and, as i said at the outset, we have a special concern for all these women. in this sense, national peace strategies must integrate the gender dimension and fight against impunity. as the fictional rapporteur for the committee on development, i stressed the need to include the notion of intersectionality as a fundamental principle for gender equality. the european union must take this into account in all its actions. indeed, many factors come into play, such as multiple identities, religious affiliation, cultural or sexual origin. the european union must recognise these diverse characters and support women and girls in their quest for empowerment, so that all women can flourish within their societies and be themselves agents of change. achieving equality between women and men is a matter of respect for fundamental rights.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, dear colleagues, the gender action plan iii report is full of big concepts and ideas, but we could break it down to the real and biggest issue: submitting the bodies of millions of poor women across the world to surrogacy, using their vulnerability to blackmail them into selling themselves off to the desires of clients from the most privileged parts of the world and then having the audacity to call it ‘sexual rights’. under the threat of taking away humanitarian aid, members of this house are ready to mould third world countries into a copy of what they fantasise europe to be, without any regard for the right to self-determination, especially the one of women they claim to defend. while insisting to be the home of human rights, embracing diversity – lifting it as a banner just to show the world how great we are – we are about to vote in favour of enslaving women from all over the world under the pretence of saving them from sexual violence. yes indeed, we have lost all sense of shame. you claim you want to fight gender stereotypes, yet you are reinforcing those stereotypes by repeatedly referring to women as a vulnerable group. please spare the women your hypocritical pity. instead of empowering women to be strong and self-confident, you degrade them into helpless beings in dire need of the administration’s help. surely you couldn’t be any more misogynistic than that. and here, too, for the record, out of the 705 members of this house, only 17 are currently present. that is a shame in and of itself.
this session is adjourned. it will be resumed tomorrow, wednesday 9 march, at 8.30 a.m. with the joint debate on the european semester.
as regards the decision of the pech committee to open interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71 (1) of the rules of procedure, announced at the opening on monday 7 march 2021, the president did not receive any request for a vote in parliament from members or from one or more political groups reaching at least the middle threshold. the committee may therefore enter into negotiations.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by irene tinagli, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for economic coordination: annual report on sustainable growth 2022 (2022/2006 ((ini)) (a9-0034/2022) and by helmut geuking, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european semester for economic coordination: employment and social policy aspects in the annual strategy for sustainable growth 2022 (2021/2233 ((ini)) (a9 0040/2022).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report which has caused so much trouble is now on the table, because many people could not understand what was written in it. it's a report on sustainable economic growth after covid-19. and the report starts by saying that the next crisis will be in our house. when we started writing the report in december, the ukraine crisis was still far away. we have the next crisis: the ukraine crisis. and one thing they all have in common is that the victims of these crises are the families, the children, the most vulnerable in our society. they're washing away what these crises are causing. europe is heading for disaster if we fail to make our markets more resilient and better equipped to withstand such crises in the future. yes, that is why we have produced this report, which is based on the social and employment aspects. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. i found that very positive. i think we've been pretty compliant in most areas. the fact that other members have come from behind, who were not familiar with the report but simply gave their knowledge for the sake of it or thought they had to give it - which made the whole thing even more difficult - is due to the nature of the matter. as i said, this is about social affairs and employment, and these are the main issues. we want to get children out of poverty with this report, and the core message of the report is: we need to have an economic program where we strengthen economic power, where we strengthen purchasing power in each and every country. and who better to do that than poor people? who better to do this than children who are starving in some parts of europe? if we introduce child benefit - which does not violate the principle of subsidiarity - and give the money directly to the people, that money will be spent. and the families need the money. they put it into the money cycle, which means, as a result, higher tax revenues in each individual country, more productivity, less unemployment, more jobs, more job security. and that's the starting point of this report: to increase purchasing power and to be with the people. making policy for the people. and that's what we all signed up for. we want to make politics for the people, and if i look at you across the aisle, regardless of which group or party you belong to, here you have the opportunity today to give a very clear signal by your consent and to say: yes, we are europeans, and we are for the european idea, we are for each other. we can't tolerate it any longer. we want to lift 30 million children out of poverty with this program. it is our duty, and that is why i ask you to accept this report. in addition to the promotion of purchasing power, this report contains many, many other things. but one thing is certain: this report does not attack the principle of subsidiarity. this report does not attack the idea of a debt pooling, as many people always claim, but on the contrary it shows solutions to how we can better manage crises together in the future. and the next crisis is just around the corner. if the ukraine crisis and the covid-19 crisis are overcome one day, another crisis is guaranteed to come. it's only a matter of time. that is why we must now set about making markets more resilient to crises. this report is a contribution from the social and employment point of view to making europe's markets more resilient to crises. and this report is about people. and that is what we all, all of us here in europe, have come to do, to make our world a little bit more livable, to fill our europe with prosperity, peace and freedom, with life, and not just to produce some papers - social papers - that lie in the drawers, that are wonderful to read, that you take out in election times - but you have not done anything. this report is a guarantee that we are willing to implement and that we will and can implement. and this report, addressed to the commissioner, contains measures which will pay for themselves in a very short time. the child allowance - there are calculations - has also been amortised after two or three years. the long-term effects of combining poverty and crime are such that in ten to twelve years' time, you could be in a plus. so what we have here is a tool where we can actually get people out of precarious situations directly. and that is why there is absolutely no objection whatever to voting for this report, no matter which group you belong to, and that is why i am calling for it: please vote in favour of this report. please show the people of europe that they are worth it and that we stand up for them and make our society more crisis-resistant. this report is a small contribution to this.
i have to say, madam president, the economic crisis is coming back. high inflation and low growth are a dangerous cocktail. the road to recession is not long. it is important to keep our european economy together. we must continue to boost employment, support businesses and invest in energy independence. unemployment remains very high in many parts of europe. and if the eurozone continues to split, all of europe will suffer. too strict monetary and fiscal policies would harm us economically. the budgetary conservatives in this house should be told: we must keep states in a position to act and therefore suspend the stability and growth pact for 2023 once again. we need joint european investment - yes, including a new fund - and a fair distribution of the costs of the crisis. and we need a european central bank which acts prudently and does not choke economic development by raising the key interest rate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what's the story today? we are talking about the european semester for economic policy coordination employment and social policy aspects. what is the importance of the eu in terms of employment and social policy? it is about the eu's climate neutrality goals. this is important for the eu. sustainable economic growth should be the goal of an inclusive and sustainable socio-ecological transformation of our economy socio-ecological transformation! we're being honest for once. so for me, this is nothing but eco-socialism that this is about. this is where trillions are going to be invested in the future -- trillions that we don't have, that we create -- to transform our economy, wherever it is. the consequences will be that people will be left behind. to help these people who are falling into poverty, who can no longer afford the energy, who can no longer afford their housing, we set up a social climate fund. so first we invest billions to drive people into poverty, and then we invest hundreds of billions that we don't have and then we re-create to help them. so it doesn't make any sense to me, this parliament has gone mad. but - and this is interesting - as early as 1977, french president mitterrand said: europe will be socialist or it will not be. in a few decades, the eu has transformed itself from an economic area into an eco-socialist area of transfer and debt. this has got to stop. and the alternative for germany is the only party that opposes it in germany.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the council, honourable members of the commission! the majority of speakers here clearly see that we cannot continue with the routine of the european semester here. we are in a completely new situation, and that's why business as usual is not an option at all. we have taken the step in the last crisis to say: we need to build resilience. and that is the resilience of the economy, but also of society. we have to keep going. because if we look at the situation now, we simply have to see that we are facing huge challenges, including in terms of the social stability of our societies. the council representative said that in the last crisis, it was already mainly people in precarious living and working situations who were most affected. it will be no different in this crisis. that is why it is important that we address this in the european semester. strong shoulders must shoulder more, and those who are particularly affected now need support. if we can do that, we can avoid further destabilization of our society. in this sense, europe will be social or it will not be. at least that's the right quote from mitterrand.
i have to say, madam president, we are the winners in the ukraine war, not moscow, kiev or beijing, but - in the meantime anyway - paris, rome and frankfurt. the maastricht rules should be reactivated after covid-19. but the war in ukraine means that paris and rome in particular do not have to save, and the ecb in frankfurt continues to print billions every day. following the covid-19 crisis, public debt in the euro area is close to 100% of economic output, with the ecb's balance sheet total at over 82% of gdp. this means that the euro countries spend much more than their countries earn, and the money supply expands without the economy growing. the result is devaluation of money. the maastricht criteria should moderate governments, prevent waste of money and protect citizens and their savings. but here you are, embezzling from governments, and speculators are increasing the vast wealth and dispossessing the citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote on the amendments will take place on wednesday 9 march 2022 and the final vote will take place on thursday 10 march 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say, madam president, it's only been two weeks since we woke up to war in the middle of europe. russia has upset the peace. for two weeks ukraine has been resisting heroically, the civilian population has been suffering the horrors of war. europe has shown that it can act quickly and decisively. it's a spark of hope. this is a determination that putin did not expect. but now, ladies and gentlemen, we must take a deep breath, not back down a bit in the face of putin and support ukraine in the long term, economically, humanitarianally and with arms supplies. we must implement the sanctions we have decided on precisely, tighten them up, close loopholes. we must use all the means at our disposal to stop european energy imports from russia and act with determination. no more euros are allowed to flow! it's up to us to drain putin's war chest. europe must assert itself as a bastion of law and freedom. we need to build our capabilities quickly and sustainably. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. and we must also be united with china. beijing must decide whether it wants to be a partner or an adversary of the free world. it is not yet time for china to become a peacemaker and to stand on the right side of history.
madam president, dear prime minister, high representative, the world that was is no more. it changed irreversibly when putin’s troops crossed the ukrainian border and started killing civilians. putin did exactly what some of us have been warning you about for years. yet i don’t feel pleasure for saying i told you so. it’s no time for pointing fingers, it’s time to stand up for ukraine and bolster our security. putin’s bloody war has shaken us to the core. now we need to protect our democracy and our union by all means. many things we considered unthinkable happened. nord stream 2 is stopped. russia is partly cut off from swift. the eu member states’ defence budgets have increased significantly. this means that we can act and adapt in the face of danger. regardless of how the russian invasion ends, putin has already lost this war. he turned his country into a pariah state and destroyed its economy. modern russia is not the military superpower as claimed by putin. its imperial ambitions will be forever buried under the ukrainian rasputitsa. it is not a war only against ukraine. this is putin’s war against the civilised world. ukraine, on the front line, is defending us and every democracy. we cannot let ukraine fall. we need to support our fellow europeans with all resources they require in their defence war.
madam president, with russia's aggression against ukraine, we are in a new geopolitical scenario: putin's russia chooses to openly become an enemy, ignores our values and unleashes war. we have a cruel adversary on our eastern borders who ignores international law and even threatens to use nuclear weapons. for the european union, the choices are clear. in addition to the necessary solidarity with ukraine and its citizens, we have three well-known priorities. firstly, to seriously strengthen our foreign and defence policy - fortunately, we are already on that track - secondly, to diversify our energy supplies, that is to say, to drastically reduce our dependence on putin's russia; thirdly, to strengthen our relations with the united states, with an administration, like that of biden, much more sensitive and close to european interests than the previous administration. the union must also increase its links with nato and with allied countries in this multipolar world, although a possible rapprochement between russia and china could lead to a bipolar order of authoritarianism versus democracy.
madam president, the events in ukraine have struck us all. the violence is a threat to our european peace and it is still unclear what consequences the war will have on our lives. i lived through war. i know what war means. one thing is certain: the world has changed and the eu has changed with it. within days, even hours, european member states have shown their unity by condemning the aggression and by taking concrete measures to safeguard our security. over the last two weeks, we have witnessed why european strategic sovereignty is so crucial. the eu is showing that it has the leverage and the power to make proactive policies, to reduce its dependency, and to increase its cooperation with like-minded partners. although the end game is not yet in sight, let us use this clear momentum to create a real security union. let us improve our resilience and defence capacity, based on a strong strategic compass, in cooperation with our transatlantic partners. while managing the crisis today, we should ensure our peace and stability for tomorrow. let’s work for peace – because families and those who are fearing for their loved ones only want peace at this moment.
madam president, it was sir winston churchill that said that democracy means that if the doorbell rings in the early hours, it is likely to be the milkman. well, ladies and gentlemen, these days it is not the milkman ringing our doorbells, but bombs, missiles, misery and pain. authoritarian regimes that want to destroy our liberties, our freedoms and our way of life are ringing that doorbell. make no mistake: we are the main course on putin’s menu. only through the brave and courageous resistance of our ukrainian brothers and sisters, only through our help to those who fight for democracy and european ideals in georgia, in moldova, in belarus, in the balkans and even in russia, will we prevail. thanks to them, we might give an opportunity to our children to live the democratic dream. let’s fight, outside and inside this european union, the enemies of our liberties. let’s start by cleaning our house of populists and extremists financed by moscow, caracas or tehran. europe, this is a wake—up call. let’s show the world our desire to have the milkman at our doorstep.
that brings us back to prime minister kallas. you see that you enjoy the full support of this house in the work that we can do together. over to you.
prime minister of estonia. – madam president, i would like to thank all the members for this very, very good debate. i think we are very much agreeing on different topics, but i will just point out a few things that i wanted to react to. first of all, we have been very united during this as the eu, also with our transatlantic partners, and we should keep it this way. it’s going to be tougher because putin wants to see us divided. let’s not give them this pleasure. let’s stay united. i think that’s very important. second, there were some calls for making agreements regarding the security architecture. the problem is that the goal of putin, or russia, is to get those agreements because he knows that one of the values of the european union is that we respect agreements – pacta sunt servanda, which means that we follow the agreements – whereas the russian side is never going to follow them. so when we talk about disarmament or we talk about taking down military exercises or limiting defence, it actually means that we are making ourselves weaker because the other side is not going to follow those agreements, and we should not do that. there was also somebody who said here that expanding nato, taking new members into nato, would be provoking russia. well, it’s not provoking russia. every country has the right to decide in which union or alliance it wants to be. it’s not up to any other country to say that you can’t be there. and i remind you, nato is a defence alliance. it’s not attacking anybody. it’s meant to be there for defending the countries that are in this alliance. and from what we see right now, it’s very much necessary. so we shouldn’t fall into that trap. regarding the sanctions, i think we should also think about how one side is seizing assets, but the other side is also confiscating assets, so that we can use the means from those assets to build up ukraine. and therefore, if this signal goes out, then it also means for every bullet that they fire, for every building that they destroy, they’re going to pay for this. they’re going to build this from their own money. it’s coming from their pockets. i think it has to be very clear regarding this. on energy, we have to understand that it’s going to hurt. and of course, ukrainians are suffering now, and i do agree with those who have said that we shouldn’t finance the war machine of putin, but we also have to understand that some of the countries in europe are 100% dependent on russian gas – bulgaria, for example. if we don’t have alternatives, it’s going to hurt them a lot and maybe so much that there is not going to be unity within europe. we have to see what the alternatives are, how we can help those countries so that it wouldn’t be so hard on their populations. some members said that we, the eu, have emerged stronger from the crisis and i do agree with this. we have built on the lessons that we learned from the debt crisis, which enabled us to be better in the health crisis. we had all the funds ready to react to a possible economic fall. but now we also have to use the lessons learned from previous crises to be stronger and i do agree we are stronger here as well. and the last point – no, one more point before the last point – and that is that the representative of the epp group from france said that the defence clause for article 42(7) (teu) has never been used, but actually, that is not correct. it has been used once – and it was for france – because of the bataclan crisis, so i just wanted to correct that. and if some countries who are not members of nato, like finland and sweden, need this article to be in force right now to feel more secure, then we should agree on this. i think we are not giving anything away. and the last point is about the ukrainian perspective to join europe. i think what the ukrainians need right now is hope. they are literally fighting for europe in ukraine, and the least we can do is give them this hope and say that ‘yes, you are part of europe; you are welcome in our family’.
thank you very much, prime minister kallas. thank you to all the colleagues who participated in this debate and stayed until this time. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. i am proud that estonia was one of the first countries to send the javelin anti-tank rifle to ukraine. i'm also proud that lithuania was one of the first countries to send stingers to ukraine. estonia and lithuania did so at a time when public opinion in many european countries was not in favor of such arms transfers to war. i am grateful to germany and all the countries that have given arms to ukraine. to stop this aggression, we must completely isolate russia. we must immediately stop buying russian gas and oil. the financing of the russian war machine must be stopped. ukraine must be given the prospect of joining the european union immediately.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. there can be no more war in europe. it is in the common interest of all of us that peace is restored to ukraine as soon as possible. we must prevent the war from spreading beyond ukraine. i welcome nato's action in this respect, in a responsible way. it requires strategic calm and responsibility. we must avoid any steps that would drag our country into the war in the neighborhood, endangering the security of the hungarian people. hungary is committed to restoring peace. i have personally experienced that many hungarian ngos, including those working with people with disabilities, are helping refugees. one of hungary's largest humanitarian operations is underway. that is why i am puzzled by the malicious false news and disinformation that is being spread against us, which even endangers the security of hungarians living across the border. i'm gonna ask you all to stop this. we need peace!
in writing. russia is a major supplier of natural gas to the eu and the current energy crisis has further strengthened its market position as europe is experiencing its worst energy crisis since 1973. since the end of the autumn, the market price of natural gas has skyrocketed and the price of crude oil is at its highest level in years. the rise in prices and the subsidies that have been applied to them have not only increased the cash flow to the gas and oil producers but have also inflated russia's war chest. the support for putin's war crimes at the expense of europeans should not be ignored, but self-sufficiency should be increased by investing in renewable energy sources. energy security must be at the heart of the eu's strategic autonomy. the commission should make every effort to phase out russian gas as soon as possible, starting with its exclusion from the eu taxonomy. the green labelling of russian gas and nuclear power now in the midst of war is also contrary to all sanctions and also undermines the credibility of europe.
in writing. – the russian invasion of ukraine stems out of a longstanding instability in the european security architecture resulting from the collapse of the ussr that was glossed over. yet, none of the concerns russia might have can excuse the ongoing war it has launched. today, it is understandable that member states feel the need to upgrade their military capabilities, as well as to coordinate this at a pan-european level. nonetheless, neutral countries must retain the option to stay out of any long-term commitment equating to a military alliance. yet, bread and butter issues remain fundamental to the internal security of europe. there is the urgent need for eu-level coordination on very basic issues. to start with, a secure and stable supply of energy. the commission’s long-term push towards the liberalisation of the energy markets is, in this current juncture, showing major weaknesses. energy supplies and their security cannot be left to the management of private interests operating under ‘free’ market conditions. the war in ukraine is also putting under threat the concept of secure food supplies at affordable prices. finally, a thorough assessment of the contagion risks that a russia default would bring to the european economic and financial system is needed. concrete measures in this regard must be taken.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine marks the beginning of a new era for europe and the world. i agree with the estonian prime minister that we must reduce our energy dependence on russian gas and oil and strengthen european defence linked to nato. the brutal aggression of russian president vladimir putin is appalling and i admire the ukrainian army and the ukrainian people who are fighting for their country, freedom, democracy and common european values.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. apart from the fact that it is completely insane to force the car market by political decree to switch to expensive, by no means co2-free, resource-intensive electrical and thus battery technology - so apart from the usual nonsense - i agree with the commission that batteries are a key technology - or were ordered to be one and therefore need to be regulated. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. because, contrary to claims to the contrary, batteries are not particularly sustainable, co2-free or environmentally friendly, which is partly what this regulation is trying to change - and i think that is welcome. however, for my taste, you want to take too much time. instead of the certification of the carbon footprint of batteries that i have requested by mid-2023, it is only to be left with a carbon declaration one year later. strange for an e-mobility that claims to be co2-free! the fact that a recycling rate is being used to deal with the enormous ecological damage, but also with the foreseeable economic dependence, is at best a nice attempt. one study concluded that to electrify britain's 32 million vehicles, it would take twice the world's production of cobalt and 75 percent of the world's production of lithium. but worldwide, 56 million cars are produced each year. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. i think the problems of future dependence on raw materials are more serious. up to 20 percent of the nickel used in batteries comes from russia. china's dependence on rare earths and almost all processed battery components is no less worrisome. the current crisis should be a lesson to us. we should not arbitrarily create new dependencies. so my conclusion is that another grand political blunder in the name of climate, with subsequent legislation, is likely to fail. but in the end, something that is very dear to me personally as a mother: all of my proposals to implement child labor as an exclusionary criterion in the supply chain were rejected in committee. please don't let children become victims of the e-lifestyle wagons of the green-skinned clientele. don't look away from me. i would like to ask you to approve our proposals in this respect.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the decarbonisation of our economy, the phase-out of fossil fuels and the massive expansion of renewable energy since putin's terrible war of aggression against ukraine, i think, makes it clear to the latter that we need the green transformation not only for our climate, but also for our strategic sovereignty. and batteries are the critical building blocks of that transformation. huge industrial batteries store the renewable electricity and feed it into the grid. battery-powered vehicles are displacing diesel and petrol engines from europe's roads, even if the afd doesn't like that. however, 90% of batteries are currently imported into the eu. whether imported or manufactured, all these batteries require raw materials, and their extraction often leads to human rights violations and environmental destruction. i have campaigned - and we have worked hard in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - for a stricter battery regulation and for mandatory human rights and environmental protection along the supply chains. and this is also an important message for the citizens who keep saying, yes, i want an electric car, but i don't want batteries that have blood on them. we've made sure that batteries last longer in parliament. and we have created a right to repair battery-powered devices. this will finally allow us to get rid of glued batteries and to use devices for longer if the battery should die. we have improved the commission proposal so that all batteries sold on the internal market are produced with clean energy. after all, 70% of a battery's emissions come from the production phase, and many batteries today are made using coal power and other fossil fuels. with this battery regulation, we are moving towards a genuine circular economy, in which the raw materials in old batteries and appliances are systematically recovered, recycled and reused. we should do this as soon as possible for all products for a genuine green internal market.
madam president, the regulation modernises the eu’s regulatory framework for batteries and aims, among other things, at strengthening the internal market, while reducing the environmental impact of batteries. although i support the original intentions of this regulation, i believe the final position of the european parliament is too ambitious and may prove not to be realistic. without the right balance, it could hinder innovation and eventually increase battery prices. this is especially important as, by 2030, at least 30 million zero—emission electric vehicles are expected to be on eu roads. too high environmental and social standards, combined with shorter deadlines, risk hindering customers choice to switch to zero—emission vehicles. consequently, new, greener and more ethical batteries would ultimately, and paradoxically, not become an effective tool to combat climate change. we need to use the leverage of the internal market to establish an eu world—leading competitive cell battery industry and reduce our dependency on other parts of the world. i fear that this legislation, as it stands, could weaken the desired result. despite my reluctance regarding some proposals in the final text, i nevertheless welcome the fact that the issues and risks related to the manufacturing of batteries are addressed in the regulation, including child labour and other human rights violations.
madam president, batteries are everywhere in today’s world, and demand is only going to increase with the rise in electric mobility and our ever-growing reliance on handheld devices. sustainable batteries and vehicles underpin the mobility of the future, and swift progress is crucial to enhancing the sustainability of the emerging battery value chain. the current battery supply chain is not very sustainable, although batteries are highly recyclable due to the nature of the critical materials inside of them. cells often travel more than 20 000 miles from mines to manufacturing facilities. a significant shortage of supply for battery materials is also looming in the near future. therefore, it is imperative that we put the framework in place to boost the reconditioning of batteries for reuse. new measures for batteries are crucial for the transition to a circular and climate-neutral economy. we must also make it easier and safer for consumers and independent operators to remove or replace portable batteries, such as those in smartphones, which often contain integrated batteries. it is crucial we solve this waste-to-scrap problem. there is an opportunity to link recycling, solving the end-of-life problem, with the supply chain, allowing us to bring more materials back into the feedstock so as not to bottleneck battery production. setting green criteria for batteries sold in europe will boost domestic production and help the continent to take its place as a centre of excellence for battery production and adoption of a circular economy.
i have to say, madam president, in 1991, batteries were something we put in the remote control, in the alarm clock, in the walkman. today, we have batteries in everything from cell phones to electric scooters to electric cars, not to mention batteries in industry. and the battery consumption is not going to decrease for a while. it is important for our green transition that more things are powered by electricity in the future - and thus also by batteries. in fact, all indications are that by 2030 world demand for batteries will be 14 times greater than today, and that as much as 17% of this demand will come from the eu. and batteries don't grow on trees, you know. many of the ingredients in batteries are mined, and very often, these are the limited resources available to us. so it goes without saying that we have to ensure a much better use of our batteries. we must recycle them, and it is therefore good that the european parliament's report has succeeded in encompassing more types of batteries, both household and industrial. many more than the commission had expected. it is important that the vast majority of batteries be covered. at the same time, we are also ensuring that the requirements for hazardous chemicals remain in the battery legislation. we get standards for chargers, and we get guaranteed co2 labelling and so on. we get to do a lot of things. if the european parliament approves it, we shall have european legislation on batteries covering the entire life of the battery. it's circular economy at its best.
i have to say, madam president, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. the need for substitution and a circular economy with functioning markets for recycled critical raw materials in europe is all the more urgent. the battery regulation is now an important step in the right direction. the right to repair, sustainability criteria, battery due diligence, the value chain with a clear focus on social and environmental standards and a mandatory share for recycled raw materials such as lithium are all real successes in the european parliament's demand, and critical raw materials can contribute to greenhouse gas reduction in green technologies. we all know the much-discussed example of electric vehicles, which of course also require lithium batteries. the battery regulation will now help us to develop alternatives in europe to the increasingly environmentally harmful extraction of raw materials. a european industry with green production technologies embedded in a circular economy is possible, and a circular economy is the need of the hour from an industrial policy point of view, from a climate and environmental policy point of view and now also from a geopolitical point of view in the face of the war in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation on batteries, on waste and on how they are to be treated is actually a key report in the field of circular economy. europe must develop dynamically. we still have a lot of catching up to do on environmental and safety issues. and if in 2019 only 51% of portable batteries sold in the european union were recycled, then something is wrong. a much higher rate of battery collection and recycling is needed, and much higher support is needed for this recycling. it is absolutely inconceivable that we currently have only four facilities in europe that can recycle lithium batteries. it's just a matter of time before they run out of capacity, because they're already on the edge of it. a major shift is needed in the search for new facilities and ways of recycling. for example, for various types of batteries, there are no recyclers in europe, i'm talking about lithium-iron-phosphate batteries, which are thrown into mixed waste. this approach, despite several calls for change by the commission, is not environmentally friendly and concrete changes are needed that are sustainable and lead to further recycling of batteries. at present, it is also worth mentioning that unfortunately recycling is more expensive than importing from some countries, especially china, and this also needs to change. that's why i'm calling for a systematic approach from the european commission and for us to continue to fight for more battery recycling.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. from the morning alarm to scrolling before bed, batteries are a part of our daily lives. every year we import over a million tons of batteries, and the demand is increasing. battery technology is a key part of our climate goals. we need more and more, but the extraction of raw materials and the recycling rates are far from sustainable. we're miles away from rechargeable batteries, and we're here to change that. but the problem starts with the design. many batteries are so built-in that we can't even extract them. that's why it's important that we have a clear position here: batteries and accumulators must be interchangeable! it's not sustainable if it's cheaper to buy a new device than to put in a new battery. the eu battery regulation allows us to set new global environmental and human rights standards when these rules are binding and enforceable. companies responsible for water scarcity in chile through lithium mining could be held accountable by such regulation. we need to be clear: there can be no sustainable use of batteries and accumulators if we don't guarantee human rights standards and environmental standards. and here the green deal also has a responsibility beyond our borders. so i thank mrs simona bonafè and all those involved for this good report, and i hope we can get it done.
madam president, the importance of independence with regard to energy supply has been made painfully obvious by the russian invasion of ukraine. we must use this pivotal moment – as we transition away from combustion engines to electrification – to become more energy independent. the amount of batteries the eu will need will increase immensely in the coming years, and we must not simply switch our dependence from fossil fuels to dependence on rare materials from regions that are problematic when it comes to democracy, human rights and the environment. to be energy independent, we must instead create a circular economy for batteries. this is an important strategic topic for the eu, with many serious implications.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to contribute to this rich debate and i also want to support this draft regulation. i agree with what my colleagues here have said in the long debate in defence and support of this motion. for me personally, besides these environmental reasons, there is a very strong geopolitical reason, which we all feel and which is being debated at various points during this session of the european parliament, and that is that we should greatly limit the future import of raw materials from russia, and thereby weaken the influence of putin's dictatorship on european countries. i would be in favour of restricting the supply of these raw materials as soon as possible. some are for slower restrictions, but we all agree that dependence on russia is wrong, and this regulation concerning batteries will certainly contribute to that in some way. as i said, i very much support this proposal, because as our green policy develops, as electric mobility develops, it is expected that in the future we will need up to 19 times more batteries than we use today. and if we look at the current issues that some of you have been raising here, like battery recycling, which is not working very well in practice, it's about half and half, half of the batteries are recycled, half are not, we really need to adopt new, tougher rules that will strengthen recycling. i think this regulation is good, there are a lot of positive things besides, for example, the specifications for battery recycling, there is the question of charging batteries, the interoperability of individual chargers. these are all concrete practical provisions which, if we manage to put them into practice, then i am convinced that we will be better able to deal with the battery issue in the new world of electric mobility, so i support this regulation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i welcome the new battery regulation that we are adopting today, because it contains important strategic positions from us, the european parliament, on the circular economy and on critical raw materials. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. we have made the necessary adjustments to the present requirements by means of this regulation. our goals of sustainable product design and more independent supply chains will become a reality. we have made real progress, particularly in the area of recycling, which is particularly important to me as rapporteur on raw materials. empty batteries and batteries that are no longer functional are not just waste, but important raw materials that we want to keep, collect and recycle in the eu in the future. we need to build reliable secondary resource circuits. that is why we are increasing the collection quotas with the new regulation, not just the recycling quotas. we therefore call for more collection points and for specific and better information for consumers. i am personally one of those who also believe that it is necessary to think about the establishment of a european deposit system in this context, so that we can really create the best conditions and the highest incentives for the collection of batteries, which will be coming onto the market in ever greater numbers throughout europe in the future. the commission's request, which we have now in the voting text, to analyse all open questions of feasibility, safety and costs and to make appropriate proposals, is an important first step in this direction. i hope that this will also give the member states an opportunity to reflect. i am glad to say that at least in my home country, germany, i have received indications that at least a national battery tracking system is being considered. a happy note.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are voting today on the outcome of the trilogue on the eighth environmental action programme, and for the first time in a european legislative text the need to end subsidies for fossil fuels is enshrined. however, in the light of the current situation in ukraine, it is more than regrettable that the member states have blocked parliament's position to end these subsidies by 2025 at the latest. we are seeing the precarious waters into which this artificial cheapening of coal, oil and gas has led us. and other environmentally harmful subsidies are already falling on our feet. the subsidies for unsustainable fishing have led to the collapse of cod stocks in the baltic sea and the virtual disappearance of tuna stocks in the mediterranean. export subsidies and land-use premiums in agriculture are increasing the use of agricultural land, and insects and birds are losing their habitat. fifty years after the first club of rome report, it is high time to redirect these funds towards a sustainable economy that ensures a habitable planet for our children and grandchildren. i am therefore glad that many good points have been incorporated in this text. for me, the key is to focus on the planetary boundaries and the commons economy. because the focus on gdp has blinded us to what's wrong with our society and also with the environment. now in the future, there will be progress reports beyond gdp, which include important indicators like resource consumption, like circular economy, like pollution, like health. we shall be examining the commission's proposals in detail so that this environmental action programme can have an impact. amazing grace: i want to thank our reporter for negotiating this wonderful outcome.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. over the past decades, eu environmental policy has brought significant benefits to both people and the planet. i therefore welcome the eighth environment action programme for european environmental policy up to 2030, with its ambitious goals and plans for people and our planet. we want to stay ahead of the curve. but the criminal putin war in ukraine is posing huge challenges to europe: food security and energy supplies are in danger. the war in the heart of europe will have brutal short- and long-term effects on the people of ukraine, on us europeans and, last but not least, on world markets, especially the developing countries which are most dependent on wheat exports from ukraine. when the german minister for agriculture says that we have enough food, he is simply ignoring the reality in the countries which need our help now and in the future. if ukraine and russia are shut out as suppliers, we're responsible for the people who can't help themselves. the poor must not be played by the rich. the change of time is also called the change of production. the eu needs to rethink its approach to food security and resilience. we cannot afford to close down fields when there is a threat of major crop failures because of the war. this is particularly urgent for products most affected by shortages due to the suspension of ukrainian exports, such as cereals, oilseeds, protein crops and fertilisers. it is urgent that in the coming weeks our farmers should be able to make decisions which will have a decisive impact on the future of their crops. because farming doesn't work at the touch of a button. we must now do everything we can to avoid supply shortages.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, times are changing and new emerging challenges, such as digitalisation and climate change, are highly affecting the way we work. on top of this, the pandemic, as not only a general health crisis but also an occupational health issue, has shed light on old and new challenges. some economic sectors have been major vectors for the spread of covid-19. it’s unacceptable that workers remain exposed to risks that put their health and even their lives in danger. prevention to secure safety and health at work is key. that is why i support the ‘vision zero’ approach to work-related accidents and diseases presented by the commission last year. unfortunately, the commission failed to propose appropriate measures and, as a result, its proposal lacks ambition. this report, however, is ambitious, which is why our group is happy to support it. the report calls for legislation that is more stringent towards the so-called ‘old risks’, such as exposure to hazardous substances like asbestos, for instance. the report also identifies fields in which we urgently need new legislation to address the growing cases of stress, burnout and other problems. therefore, we call on the commission to legislate on telework, the right to disconnect and psychosocial risks, and to produce clear guidelines for member states and employers on the protection of persons with disabilities at work. finally, yet importantly, we call on the commission to look into the potential risks due to climate change in occupational settings. only when doing so, can we adapt our labour markets to the needs of these challenging times.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about the eu strategy on health and safety at work. in 2018, 3,300 people died in fatal work-related accidents and 200,000 died from work-related diseases. that's way too much, of course. this is a subject which is very close to my heart, because as a foreman in the last german coal mine, i was responsible for safety for many years. and we did that well. although mining is dangerous, we had one of the lowest accident rates in german industry. how did we do that? we've invested a lot. job security costs money, a lot of money, and that has led to german coal being and being more expensive than coal from russia, china or colombia. and i'm gonna wander off for a second because it's the news of the day. but german coal mining has not only provided secure jobs, but also energy security for our country. because german coal is the only domestic energy. and it also secured germany's coal reserves. it is only four years since the whole thing happened, and suddenly german politicians can imagine that this german coal reserve is a good thing. time and politics can be so fast-moving. but back to the main issue: what does the commission now propose to do to make the workplace safer? covid-19 is to be included in the list of occupational diseases. i can't even begin to understand that. yes, and the ultimate enemy we must also face in the field of safety at work is climate change. so climate change is now threatening us in the workplace as well. so hot workplaces have actually always been around: wherever machines are running, it's hot, in kitchens it's hot. that's been dealt with so far. but the main reason now is that climate change is particularly bad for skin diseases. skin cancer is the big story. skin cancer tell that to a german construction worker, he'll laugh his ass off! they like to work with their upper body free. and now it's also the case that when it gets too hot and there are skin problems, people usually put on something. that's why no one works in the desert naked! and i can't think of any workplace in europe that employs people in the nude. they're usually all dressed up. there you go. this should be fun. but now back to the serious stuff: the recent studies from the united states say that the increase in skin cancer is not at all related to the real sun, but to the artificial, to the false sun from pears or spotlights. i can't think of anything else to say about this whole thing except that we're talking about bullshit all the time. and what's interesting is, who knows what the safest place to work is? does anyone have any idea? a nuclear power plant! nuclear power plants are pretty much the safest places to work in the world. i think that this parliament is an unsafe place to work. apparently a very unsafe workplace, because this was the only parliament in the world that was sent home during the covid-19 crisis. we ran away, we were out of here. this is obviously a particularly dangerous area. and then we're talking about a steady increase in mental illness. i see that danger in this parliament and in the commission too. and that has a lot to do with the fact that people who are not so highly qualified get incredibly much here -- not necessarily earn, but get -- and stay in their own bubble for years and not engage at all with people who earn their money honestly. and that needs to change. the people here, the parliamentarians, should also go back to work.
the commission has already done so. the protection of workers at the workplace is a really important issue. that is why you deserve better than this new so-called framework, which is steeped in ideology and - i regret to say it so clearly - nonsense. three examples: first, climate change is now blamed for an increase in skin cancer. this is particularly true for construction workers. if you go to southeast asia, you will also see construction workers working in the heat of the day in full disguise, wearing hats and woolen scarves. in germany, construction workers like it a little more liberal. it's probably something to do with the ideal of beauty. in southeast asia, white skin is the ideal of beauty, but here it's probably different. but seriously, should the european parliament now be concerned with whether or not construction workers are topless? so, guys, if you intervene, we're really going into a nanny state. more ideology: covid-19 is now supposedly an occupational disease. this is surprising at first glance, because covid-19 has affected not only workers, but also older people, but across all segments of the population. you have to read the report carefully to understand this line of thought. why is covid-19 now an occupational disease? because many people had to work from home and allegedly moved less. and that would affect the muscles and the musculoskeletal system. but of course, this is a ridiculously close circle, because it's not covid-19 that's caused any of these occupational diseases, it's the lockdown. but that is not what we want to say, because of course the european parliament and the european commission have also imposed such lockdowns on their employees. and you don't want to admit that you may have contributed to occupational diseases yourself. the existence of occupational diseases in this sense is also highly questionable. looking at the growth in sales of online fitness classes and especially of equipment manufacturers, you might think that there has never been a bigger boom in this segment and people have moved more than ever before. the third ideological overload of this framework is, of course, the reference - which must never be missing - to alleged sexual violence. the reasoning is this: because so many people were at home, female delivery drivers were also more likely to be sexually harassed. it's clear that the women drivers of uber eats, amazon fresh, dhl, are known to have a lot of time when they pass by, and that's probably why they're the perfect victims of sexual violence. so if someone gives a package for a moment and then immediately squeaks away again, i can't imagine how there should be any nuances. but maybe there'll be a study on that one day. in short, safety and health at work is an extremely important issue, and that is precisely why european workers deserve better than this study, which is full of ideology and stupidity.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the eu member states have the highest tax burden in the oecd. the german tax burden on selfemployment is 50%, compared with the oecd average of 34.6%. nevertheless, the eurozone has the highest unemployment rate in the oecd: 7.2%, compared with the oecd average of 5.5%. 3.9% in the usa and 2.8% in immigration-free japan. the hidden tax inflation expropriated german savers by 116 billion euros in 2021 alone. but inflation is rising. this year, therefore, it will probably be 200 billion euros. the answer to these problems is staring us in the face: we need a comprehensive tax reform. this means that member states must reduce the tax burden on ordinary earners, reduce the enormous expenditure on non-european immigration and stop the inflation of the money supply as a stealth tax. instead, this parliament ignores the overtaxation and even calls for new eu taxes to support the green deal. the commission is also proposing to harmonize vat rates at a high level, so that member states cannot reduce taxes on fossil fuels to save the poorest from freezing. their green revolution is the most anti-social ideology since the industrial revolution. the principle of unanimity is a legal principle that protects national tax authorities from eu encroachment. amendments to the treaty also require unanimity. the european parliament therefore now calls on the council to circumvent the tax rules laid down in articles 114 and 115 tfeu. tax matters requiring unanimity in the council are to be recast and redefined as competition policy matters in accordance with article 116. then the qualified majority was enough. the eu, however, wants to hold member states accountable for breaches of the rule of law. it is not the council's responsibility to make the necessary adjustments to the treaties. the eu's position is always the same: if the treaties get in our way, we ignore them or we override them. the european court of justice will be right with us. and that's exactly what it is. while the ecj rules in favour of the commission in 80% of infringement cases against member states, the same ecj regularly rejects actions for annulment brought by member states against the eu institutions. this is why the legal certainty in eu law is particularly high, as the ecj regularly decides on a case-by-case basis. however, such legal certainty has very little to do with the rule of law. hypocrisy, said the french moralist la rochefoucauld, is the tribute paid by vice to virtue. the same is true of all the talk about the rule of law in this parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. commissioner jourová, i see that you have your mobile phone handy and have probably written dozens of messages today. like all of us, we carry our cell phones with us 24 hours a day. i hope that the president of the commission has it available 24 hours a day, because she must be available. like all of us in this house, each one of us, the commission president uses her mobile phone to contact her team, to exchange important ideas, to make policy. and we know that she also used it to organize the purchase of vaccines for 450 million europeans, and to improve their lives. what happens on mrs von der leyen's phone is politics, and at the same time the commission's legal service now claims that sms messages 'do not, in principle, contain any important information about the commission's policies, activities or decisions'. so i can only assume that the phone is being used exclusively for candy crush. i don't think that's what you mean. access to documents is one of the central fundamental rights of any democratic system. it is not possible for journalists to be given a shallow explanation and be beaten up. it is not possible for the commission itself to ignore the ombudsman's recommendation. and it can't be that access to key documents is being blocked again by ursula von der leyen deleting text messages. let us finally make it clear what is happening on the commissioners' phones.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing a central and important issue today: the transparency of all administrative action within the eu institutions. i find it really embarrassing that your boss, mrs. von der leyen, is not present. because the elephant in the room is not the transparency rules that we can safely agree on. the elephant in the room is mrs von der leyen's behaviour in the context of her duties in procuring the vaccine, and i would ask you to tell her that it really cannot be done that way. we need absolute transparency about this behaviour and what actually happened. because it's not just about getting the vaccine. it's about what she knew about the dangerous vaccines, about the danger, about the vaccine side effects that have already been found in the trials of the pfizer trial itself. there are tens of thousands of vaccine injuries, and that's why this needs to be on the table. we need absolute transparency here, and i would ask you to give mrs von der leyen a letter i was going to give her earlier and then tell her that i'm sorry she wasn't here today.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. many of us probably have piles of clothing in our homes that we no longer use. but what happens to these clothes? the numbers are really devastating. less than 1% of clothing is recycled worldwide, but more and more is produced, sold, bought. and this is really interesting: we're not talking about fast fashion anymore, we're talking about superfast fashion. the ecological footprint is huge. the textile sector - and this has just been said - is responsible for one tenth of the world's co2 emissions. just to make one t-shirt, we need 2,700 liters of water. that's enough to quench a man's thirst for two years. the textile industry is also, like no other sector, a symbol of the throwaway society and the injustice of the global economy. we all know the images of workers - yes, especially women - huddled together at the sewing machines. no daylight, instead of chord work. and as long as companies are giving badly paid contracts at the last minute or canceling them again, working conditions will remain precarious. these problems show that a strategy for sustainable textiles must address the environmental but also the human rights issues. the textile strategy - and many colleagues have said this today - must not be limited to announcements and fine words, but must also be accompanied by concrete legislative measures. we also need a genuine circular economy for textiles in our internal market, longer durability, effective reduction targets for material consumption and emissions, high collection rates and finally more recycling and recycling! the environmental footprint of the jeans or the jacket that consumers buy must be made clear to them. and for that we need an electronic product passport that gives us accurate information about it, and i am glad, commissioner, that you have announced this. the commission has already adopted a directive on unfair trading practices in the agricultural and food sectors. i think that such a rule is absolutely necessary for the textile sector as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. responsible and sustainable consumption is important to many consumers. and yet, very likely, each of us has a sweater or a t-shirt of forced labor hanging in our closet, because 20 percent of the world's cotton alone comes from china's forced labor region of xinjiang. as consumers, we have great power. we can make a difference. but we cannot all be responsible. the textile strategy is the legal framework for this. the textile strategy must set this fair framework. because in a globalized world, responsibility is also global. fair play in a social market economy strengthens responsible entrepreneurship and cuts out the black sheep. the textile strategy must promote the global circular economy. we hear: reuse, recycle and reduce is the credo. because the textile industry accounts for about 10% of global emissions, more than air and sea transport combined. the textile strategy and the textile industry must finally strengthen human rights. the textile strategy must be a building block in the fight against child and forced labour. the textile strategy must therefore also be closely linked to the supply chain act. the commission proposal on the supply chain act does, however, still need to be improved in some areas. my dear colleagues, we associate clothing with emotions. clothing is warmth and protection, clothing is an expression of our personality. some items of clothing are special souvenirs. but clothing also has an ecological and social footprint. and we must finally tackle this with our textile strategy.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. for a year now, the military junta in myanmar has been murdering, deporting, arresting and raping with impunity - in a manner so perverse, planned and systematic that we must clearly speak of crimes against humanity and war crimes. and there is no end in sight to the cruel military rule. last year, my colleagues and i had the opportunity to meet with elected representatives of myanmar online. they had to go underground to protect their lives or the lives of their families. the civilian government is in exile, on the run, murdered or imprisoned after mock trials. it must be in the interest of all democracies to restore myanmar's fledgling democracy. that is why we cannot have international cooperation with myanmar's rulers, especially when we see who the friends of the military junta are: china and russia are reliably supplying weapons for the killing and blocking the un security council. you are destabilizing a country that hopes for a democratic future. you're destabilizing an entire emerging region. the great conflict of our time is autocracy versus democracy. this conflict is more than just economic competition. the autocrats and despots of this world terrorize and murder the world because they despise and fear the desire for freedom and democracy. i therefore find it completely incomprehensible and frankly intolerable that the commission has still not initiated an examination of myanmar's trade advantages. i thank you, commissioner jourová, for being here today, but i often wonder in foreign policy debates: where is mr. borrell? i ask the commission to ensure that no military company benefits from preferential access to our internal market. suspend the trade advantages! the european union must live up to its responsibilities as a democratic and economic power. no democratic country can be too small or too far away from us to not stand on the side of freedom and democracy. thank you for your efforts, colleagues.
author. – madam president, the caucasus, and particularly nagorno-karabakh, is the crossroad of civilisations. for millennia, different cultures, nations and religions have been creating masterpieces here. these masterpieces belong not only to the people of the caucasus, but also to the world. it is our common obligation to preserve them. what took millennia to build in times of peace can be destroyed in a moment by the war. after the second karabakh war, thousands of armenian monuments came under azerbaijani control. very recently, aliyev’s government erased armenian churches, crushed stone tombstones in another azerbaijan region, nakhchivan. this provides a dramatic peek into the potential future of armenian artefacts in nagorno-karabakh. we cannot allow the cultural devastation of nakhchivan to repeat in nagorno-karabakh too. attempts to revise history should be condemned, be it the so-called albanisation or removing the conical dome from the armenian holy saviour cathedral in shusha. equally unacceptable is the destruction of azeri cultural heritage sites left behind by 600 000 idps. after the first four, many azeri religious sites were destroyed and neglected. cultural heritage is erased not by bulldozers, but by people full of hate. if the two caucasian nations focus more on what unites them instead of what divides them, they will discover that their cultures are much more similar than they imagined.
the commission has already done so. i fully support an independent commission of inquiry, led by unesco, to investigate and establish the full extent of cultural vandalism in arzach. i am also sure that this mission will reveal the willful destruction of armenian churches, monuments, artifacts and memorials, the so-called chatchkars. what we are witnessing is the systematic destruction of the armenian cultural heritage in arzach, which is clearly contrary to the judgments of the international court of justice. an independent mission led by unesco must finally be granted unhindered access to arzakh to prevent further destruction of armenian cultural heritage in arzakh. and we should not allow the azerbaijani authorities to delay and impede such a mission indefinitely.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to say to commissioner kyriakides that she has described the problem very well and has already listed quite a few of the issues that the commission is doing already, such as focusing on promotion and prevention, screening, diagnosis and knowledge data. commissioner kyriakides, i’m glad that you are ready to take up the idea of having digital transplant registries in order to improve the situation of people that are waiting for an organ. but actually i missed a bit of the answer to part of our oral question, for example, when it comes to equitable deployment, when it comes to innovation and when it comes to greener dialysis. actually, dialysis is still done in the same fashion as it was done 30 years ago when i was at university studying pharmacy. i think there has been so much progress in other parts of medicine and treatment that it is quite curious that this has not changed a lot and that it is still as time consuming, as resource consuming and as strenuous for patients as it was 30 years ago. i think that is really a realm where we should focus in our research activities and in our innovation programmes. i would really like to see an approach by the commission which takes this into account. we have repeatedly heard that, in the eu, 100 million people are suffering from chronic kidney disease. 9 874 people are currently waiting for an organ, and more than 3 000 of those have been waiting for more than five years. for these patients, going to dialysis three times a week, which is a time-consuming, strenuous and expensive exercise, and which also uses up a lot of energy and consumes a lot of plastic waste and lot of water, that should be our push for action. we should also have a talk with member states. i come from a member state where organ transplantation is not as widespread an issue as it actually should be, because i know that there are other member states – i’m looking to you, ms kyriakides! i would like you to address the ministers of health of the european union in order to find how we can actually raise the numbers of people that are ready to donate an organ, for example, having a sort of default choice ‘yes, i will donate organs’ instead of, as in germany, where you have to opt in, not opt out. i think that would be the right way to address this issue in order, in three years, maybe no longer to have 10 000 people waiting for a kidney. and these are only kidneys. there are also things like livers and others. the numbers on organ transplants are stagnating. they should actually go up because people should be aware of the problem, but they are not. i think the major lack is in screening and early detection because, when this disease is detected, people are already very ill. i think what we need is a really good training programme for the health workers on the front line. i would be very happy if you would support this at the health minister stage.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not 100 million people -- we've heard this before -- suffer from chronic kidney disease, and it's projected that by 2040, kidney disease will be the fifth leading cause of death worldwide. kidney function declines by one to two percent per year in every person over the age of 50. added to this are certain risk factors, such as diabetes, obesity, or high blood pressure, which can cause kidney function to decline by as much as 15% annually. kidney disease is a human burden, but it's also a financial burden on health care systems. the annual cost in europe is around eur 140 billion and rising. however, research into new therapies for chronic kidney disease is lagging behind internationally in europe. most patients are unaware of their health status due to the lack of early diagnosis, which is also the result of a shortage of specialist nephrologists in europe. the preferred treatment for end-stage renal failure is transplantation. but the wait for a postmortem organ donation is six to eight years. the only alternative is dialysis. as a result, only 45% of intensive care patients in the eu receive transplants, and 55% are dialysis dependent. where can we save money to help kidney patients? here are some suggestions: the european institute for gender equality has a budget of almost 8 million euros, which we could save immediately. the asylum, migration and integration fund, the emergency fund for africa and the refugee payments to turkey cost us around 5.5 billion euros a year, which could also be saved if we secured the borders. by the way: the federal government can cost its migration policy at least 60 billion euros per year, and the climate rescue and energy policy alone cost the germans already over 100 billion euros per year. think of the hours of dialysis, doctors, nurses, and organ donation campaigns that could be bought with it. while we waste hundreds of billions of dollars every year on world-saving projects, we must ask here in the european parliament today for adequate funds for 100 million people who are in dire need of health care. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for moral duties are like concentric circles from near to far. we see it that way, but we agree with the stoics, the scholastics, immanuel kant, the scottish moralists, or even hegel. you just don't want to know anything about european culture. because you're thinking mostly of distant lands that we know little about.
madam president, based on article 195 [inaudible] that it would have been more appropriate for mr trudeau, prime minister of canada, to address this house according to article 144, an article which was specifically designed to debate violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, which is clearly the case with mr trudeau. then again, a prime minister who openly admires the chinese basic dictatorship, who tramples on fundamental rights by persecuting and criminalising his own citizens as terrorists just because they dared to stand up to his perverted concept of democracy, should not be allowed to speak in this house at all. mr trudeau, you are a disgrace for any democracy. please spare us your presence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are always talking about our european, our democratic values, which should be the basis for all our actions. i have been a diplomat for five years in syria and four years in pakistan, and i have a great appreciation for democracy. now, madam president, invite canadian prime minister justin trudeau, who has recently trampled on these values; who declared a state of emergency for ten days because free citizens protested against the corona measures which were completely disproportionate; the commission has already announced that it will be closing the accounts of some 200 canadians for supporting an unapproved movement. obviously, you can't ignore the values any more than he did. i therefore put forward a motion for a resolution calling on the council to give this enemy of democratic values no time to speak in this house of democracy.
madam president, never let a good crisis go to waste. in common parlance, crises instil fear and disorientation, which allow clever politicians to impose otherwise unacceptable policies. we saw that during covid and are seeing it now over ukraine. we are told the war is fuelling energy and food price explosions because we are too dependent on russian gas and oil. the eu’s conclusion: to end russian energy imports and to accelerate the green transition. the truth is, without russian energy, the lights would go out over most of europe and energy prices would rise sky high – not because of delays over the green deal, but because of the green deal and because germany, when president von der leyen – who’s now slipped away – was still a minister under merkel, decided it would quit reason and be the first happy-go-lucky, hippy, green industrial power without nuclear energy and fossil fuels at one and the same time. madness is trying the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. this includes the insane obsession of creating a single eu federal state, even if, as a result, most people are worse off. why does the european commission not invite eu citizens to submit their energy bills to the commission and indicate how much more they are willing to pay for the green deal, or whether they would prefer the commission to use that money instead to pick up their energy bills.
i have to say, madam president, my solidarity is with the people of ukraine. but the suffering of the ukrainians is being exploited here for their own geopolitics. the eu is moving towards a military union, because the battle is now between democracy and autocracy. but if you believe that, you may also believe in santa claus. because militarism is always accompanied by a reduction in liberal democracy. the eu is cutting off its supply of russian gas, so they say. but at the same time, they're building deals with qatar, like in germany. is not qatar an autocracy? isn't qatar at war with yemen? yes, the aggressive war of the putin regime is without question to be condemned. but with the military union, with the billions for high-tech war equipment, no ukrainian is being saved now. the poor and the workers are to pay for the rearmament. i want them to work harder. they're supposed to accept higher prices. the eu global strategy has already said what armaments really are: the eu must be able to defend important trade routes and sea routes - including militarily - if necessary. well, in the strategic compass with a flexible combat force, it's to be elevated to the throne, the military union. the eu has always boasted of being a power of diplomacy. the message to other great powers today is clear: the eu is not only an economic power but also a military power, armed to the teeth, ready to fight for future spheres of influence. the need for security of the peoples of europe is not being met by all sides. we, the peoples, the working people, the workers, do not want to pay for these wars or fight for them.
madam president, russian bombs in ukraine are falling not only on kindergartens and maternity wards, but also on silos and tractors. in today’s global world, a grain field burnt down by russia in sumy spells hunger in yemen. ukraine is a major exporter of wheat and other crops. the poorest states in africa are facing a looming famine because one man in the kremlin wants to destroy a nation. millions of displaced ukrainians, among them farmers, who cannot cultivate their land, are also on the verge of a humanitarian calamity. while russian bombs kill thousands, russian-caused famine endangers hundreds of millions. china and india contribute to skyrocketing grain prices through excessive hoarding. there’s enough reason to be alarmed. all international donors and organisations, every responsible party, has to act to prevent the catastrophe. the eu has a responsibility to decrease meat production, reduce livestock numbers and to scrap mandatory admixture of biofuel. in this way, the eu could at least mitigate a famine and a humanitarian disaster.
mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president, it is essential to show solidarity with the ukrainian people, with the humanitarian tragedy we see every day before our eyes. but for that to happen, it is essential to end the kremlin's and putin's funding of the war. that means being able to immediately embargo the purchase of oil and gas, and eventually a total trade embargo. right now, putin wants gas and oil to be paid for in rubles, which will only strengthen his economy. we cannot make a deal with the financing of war, we cannot empower those who wage a war of aggression and invasion. and to protect ourselves it is of course essential that we deal with energy supply and food supply, and in the case of energy supply that this council has a special plan for interconnections throughout europe, from the iberian peninsula to greece, from northern germany to the adriatic.
i have to say, madam president, millions of refugees have arrived in europe, millions of traumatized children, millions of women who have had to leave their loved ones, their fathers, their brothers, to seek refuge in europe. the majority of these refugees are in poland. poland has taken in more than all the other eu countries combined. but also in my home city, berlin, thousands of people arrive every day. more than 20 000 people have found shelter, and we see groups arriving who need special support, especially those who are sick or in need of care. that is why it is right and i would like to thank the commission for launching care so quickly. we must send a clear signal to all the municipalities, to all the cities that are helping now, that have such a strong, wonderful civil society: we will not leave you in the lurch, we will support you now, wherever we come europe helps here. but this aid will only work in the medium term if we really adopt a distribution key for all refugees throughout europe. that is why i am calling on the council to put this matter to rest. otherwise, in six months' time we shall not be able to say: long live unity!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, mr vice-president, i think we all know the sense of frustration and confusion of our citizens after two years of a pandemic and the arrival of a war on our borders. but europe is perceived as a protective home more than ever. that is why the outcome of the next council must be a substantive message. we expect strong signals from the heads of state and government in the coming working days. we expect a signal to be sent to ukraine by continuing to support its resistance and its citizens who are fleeing, and by guaranteeing them welcome. we expect a signal to our families, to our businesses, by putting in place common gas purchases and a ceiling on energy prices. we expect a signal to be given to the european sectors affected by the sanctions against russia by approving a support plan, as was done in the past for brexit. finally, we expect a signal to the world and in particular to those countries which voted against the resolution on russia at the un. you don't expect to be a business partner tomorrow, who today chooses to be on the wrong side of history.
madam president, 85 years ago, nazis and fascists bombed guernica. today, putin’s totalitarian regime destroys mariupol by bombing civilians there just as cruelly. or should we compare the siege of mariupol to the criminal siege of leningrad in the second world war? in 1937, democratic europe did not do enough to help defend the spanish republic against nazi and fascist terror. are we doing enough today to help defend ukrainian democracy? no, not yet. i appeal to the council: send ukraine more arms and stop financing putin’s war machine now!
madam president, let me be very short. maybe it’s time to speak less and act more. so let me ask the council first to drastically reduce or eliminate the cash flow to russia for purchasing gas and oil. second, to take measures that will minimise the negative impact across the eu of these steps. last not least, in order to support millions of ukrainian refugees, to use as much as possible of eu money to assist the countries that are welcoming these millions of people.
madam president, i would say to dear ukraine: you show us what is important in life. it is peace, it is democracy, it is the rule of law and it is friends. we don’t need more authoritarian leaders or violent nationalism, but cooperation and unity. you actually, putin, made us love the european union. you made us see the things that we should have done earlier, take the steps that we should have taken earlier. we are too dependent on fossil energy, and we are paying into your war machine. this needs to stop. also, the council needs to take brave steps on the strategic compass and make europe more resilient. sanctions will hit russia, no question about it. but it is not possible, if we are to continue your energy politics, that we will pay so much. putin, the blood on your hands will not be long hidden from the people of russia!
a uachtaráin, the bombs continue to drop in ukraine, and while putin, hiding his evil from his own people, levels cities with complete and utter disregard for human life, we now see the most intensive refugee crisis since world war two. putin, the tyrant, has been placated and facilitated by some even in this house, most of whom have desperately scrambled to rewrite their own record, but also a small minority who remain wilfully blinded by russian propaganda. the enormity of the amount of people fleeing terror will require a response from government and society unlike anything most in europe have ever seen. we must meet this challenge. the cost of living crisis across europe must also be addressed. we need urgent, targeted measures to prevent more surges of energy prices. the council must look at vat and energy tax rates immediately, and the commission should adopt extraordinary measures to allow subsidies to alleviate energy policy and wean ourselves off russian fossil fuels as soon as possible.
madam president, for four weeks now, the criminal russian military invasion of ukraine has been underway, and for four weeks now, the ukrainian people have been valiantly defending not only their homeland, but also freedom, democracy and europe. i am absolutely certain that we must stop all, indeed all trade relations with the aggressor who directly or indirectly finances the russian war. such a decision is not only logical and economic but also moral. economic sanctions against an aggressor not only make it harder for him to function, but also increase our security. a common european approach to energy, cooperation on energy storage and common energy purchasing - these are the guarantees that, as in the pandemic, so in this crazy russian war, we can manage the situation together. our support for the brave ukrainians is at all levels. today, president zelensky is a leader in the defense of life and freedom of thought, not only in his own country, but around the world. i'm sure he deserves our support, and our highest award, which is the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. thank you for your support.
dear prime minister, colleagues, this war, this horror, has been going on for a month. have we done enough to bring peace? i don't think he did. we need to not only listen, but also hear ukraine, what it needs and how much we can help it. i think it's time to decide on the status of the candidate. i also think we should increase sanctions on russia. it is now clear to everyone that we must abandon russian fossil fuels and stop funding the war machine. the commission's data show that europe is fully supplied with both gas and fossil fuels by winter. let's also stop manipulating. and if we've cut off russia's access to swift, let's cut off all banks, not just some.
madam president, what the council's discussion allows us to anticipate is the intention to accelerate the process of considerably deepening the militarism of the european union: a strategic compass geared to war, interventionism, interference, confrontation, which ensures a greater and substantial mobilization of financial resources for the arms industry, the creation of operational capacity and an alignment with nato, assuming the eu as its european pillar. who will pay for this trip? this path does not serve peace, it does not serve the interests of the peoples and the response to the needs and problems they face. at the same time as the exemption from vat on armaments is being proposed, millions of people are faced with unbearable speculative increases in energy and fuel prices, along with the general increase in the cost of living. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in electricity and natural gas is a step in the right direction.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, first and foremost i would like to thank all the members intervening in this very important debate, because they truly underscored the historic times we are living and the need for courageous european decisions to support brave ukrainian people in their fight for freedom and in their fight for our european values. and in this respect, this week’s discussion of our leaders at the european council will be truly a strategic one. the leaders will consider all issues related to the russian war against ukraine, and i think that we should be proud of our response so far. it has been resolute, robust and rapid, and i think that it was also a result of the first-class cooperation and coordination within the eu, among all our institutions, but also beyond. if you allow me to reiterate, in unwavering terms, the european union stands by ukraine and its people. and i think it was very clear from today’s debate in this house that we all share a determination to remain united, that we will continue to work on further coordinated political, financial, material and humanitarian support to ukraine; that we are standing ready to move quickly with further coordinated sanctions and close the loopholes, as some of the honourable members have been highlighting how important it is, and add all of those to the sanctions which we already adopted and which we see that are having a crippling effect on the economy of russia. a lot of the honourable members brought very emotional, and rightly so, stories of refugees fleeing the ukrainian war. and i have to say that we approach it with the same emotion in the european commission. therefore, you saw that today we’ve been adopting new rules to make sure that these 3.4 million people, so far, who are overwhelmingly women and children, would have proper shelter and proper protection. that we would make it easier for them by our welcoming reception, but also making sure that their kids go back to school as quickly as possible. that everyone who needs it will get proper healthcare anywhere in the european union and therefore we guaranteed 10 000 beds – and i really would like to thank all the member states for being so solid there in showing the possibility to treat patients in all the hospitals across the european union. that the housing will be provided for those who need it and that we will protect the children more than anyone else. many of the honourable members have been referring to the very important issues of energy – our dependence on fossil fuels coming from russia and the need to reshape our system as quickly as possible. i am glad that here we are not starting from scratch and i was working with many of you on the energy union in the previous mandate. and i have to say that your work, your support, was so crucial for us having now the world interconnected, an energy security network, and it helps us a lot in these very difficult geopolitical circumstances. but we are working further on increasing diversity of the supplies, having more lng in our system and we are working with all partners. and just last week i visited the united states, where i felt a strong desire to help us, to supply us with lng in quantities that europe would need. but i agree with all of you that we need much more coordinated eu policy on gas: on buying, on storing, on responding to any supply disruption. and to this end, we stand ready to create a task force on common gas purchases at european level to make the best possible deals with this and put our purchasing power of the european union being the number one, top-class client in the world. i believe that the leaders tomorrow will give a green light to this solution, and the task force will be up and ready to make sure that we will secure those deals for european businesses and for european consumers. i also recognise the need to tackle high energy prices, which are hitting our households and businesses and therefore we adopted a series of options for the leaders to debate tomorrow. what can we do with reduced vat? how can we use the vouchers for the most vulnerable consumers? and do we want to go in the direction of the possibility to cap electricity and gas prices, as well as using the new temporary crisis framework for state aid? all these are on the table, and we believe that after leaders’ deliberations tomorrow, we will be able to proceed very quickly with concrete proposals. to answer the honourable member, i totally agree with him that the cleanest energy is the energy which is saved. therefore, we see this as an opportunity to accelerate green-energy build-up, to reduce energy consumption and increase energy efficiency. i am very glad that now we have legally binding targets when it comes to energy efficiency and by 2030 we would increase it by 36-39% and reduce our energy consumption by 9%. to conclude, let me once again say that we are absolutely united more than ever to support the ukrainian people, and i’m sure after what we have seen over the last four weeks, what i’ve witnessed in the debate today, that the brave people of ukraine will prevail and ukraine will come victorious out of this atrocious war. slava ukraini!
president of the council. madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a month since the start of this abject war, for which the only responsible and the only guilty party is vladimir putin's russia. this was done in a spirit of, i believe, unity and responsibility. we have three european messages and three lines of action since the outbreak of this war. firstly, we must be firm with russia in order to exert maximum pressure, which is already having a major effect on russia, particularly economically. we will continue to do so - this was said by the president of the european council, this was encouraged by the european commission and this was noted by many of you - we will have to do more, particularly in the area of sanctions. as you know, this is discussed regularly in the council. we will have to continue this effort, as many have stressed, including on the energy issue, of course. a message of solidarity, of course, to ukraine and its people, who are fighting this fight with extraordinary courage in the name of our values and the european spirit, for the freedom of their territory and the sovereignty of their country. this solidarity is expressed through european humanitarian aid and exceptional military aid, the emphasis being on military efforts. it is true that, as mr danjean has said, it is the political will that must be strengthened, and i believe that the european peace facility has shown that it is not just a budgetary tool, but also a practical tool, which makes it possible today, with the doubling announced at the beginning of the week, to actually deliver arms for the defence of ukraine. this solidarity must also be shown between european countries, particularly in the case of the reception of the refugees who have already fled ukraine by the millions. i welcome the special welcoming and solidarity shown by the countries at the front line: poland, romania, hungary, slovakia and, outside the european union, moldova. with all these countries we must also strengthen the support effort, activating, as we have done, temporary protection, which already allows us to share part of this effort, and, as we have said, as a presidency and as a country, we are ready to further strengthen this effort of european solidarity in the coming weeks. the third message is precisely that of this unity of the european union, which we must develop and deepen. this means improving our defence capabilities and our sovereignty capabilities - we have often said and carried out this in the energy and agri-food sectors. the strategic compass was adopted this week and will be confirmed at the level of heads of state or government tomorrow and the day after. it is not just a document; it is a roadmap for action with concrete measures. it will also require the political will to translate it into reality as soon as possible. it is also this unity, this strengthening of european sovereignty, the reduction of our dependence in the areas i have mentioned. yes, we must do it more quickly, as has been repeatedly emphasized in the energy field, and not just for the next few weeks. we must reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, particularly from russia, in a rapid and sustainable manner. energy will be very important in the discussions of the european summit which has been mentioned and which will therefore take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. i welcome the new proposals put forward today by the european commission to feed this debate. i mentioned the reduction of long-term dependence. it also means, in the short term, that we have measures to be discussed, which are sometimes difficult, as we know, of common purchasing and storage, or measures to control prices, so that our dependence is precisely better controlled. all this european effort is being done in coordination with our international partners. we shall hear from the prime minister of canada in a moment, and you know that tomorrow, before the european summit, a nato meeting and a g7 meeting will also be held, so that all our efforts will be made with the strongest message of firmness and unity from the international community and the west against russia. we will have to do more, we will have to do it together and we will have to keep in mind at all times, despite the dependencies that exist and that we must limit as quickly as possible, that we are the strong power, we are the ones who will impose our values, we are the ones who will defend our interests, and we will do it in support of ukraine and alongside it.
thank you, thank you very much, undersecretary beaune. i would also like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to the debate. the joint debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. hungary is helping, ukraine can count on us. so far, almost half a million refugees have arrived in hungary, mostly women and children. we help everyone: those who flee the war, and those who remain in ukraine. more and more internally displaced persons are seeking safety in the western half of the country, in transcarpathia. hungary doesn't supply weapons to the war, but it does provide all the humanitarian aid it can to those in need. right now, we're sending a huge amount of aid to ukraine, to provide the medical supplies and to provide clean water to the region. we condemn russian aggression, we stand for the sovereignty of ukraine, and we focus our efforts on peace. we must do everything possible to avoid the escalation of the war, to prevent the conflict from spreading beyond the borders of ukraine. we are determined that hungary should stay out of this war. hungary does not support the extension of eu sanctions to the energy sector. a proposal to sanction energy from russia would make it impossible to maintain a united european approach and would impose a disproportionate, almost unbearable burden on hungary and some other eu countries. the security of energy supply is a priority, and for us, the safety of the hungarian people comes first. i condemn in the strongest terms the dangerous disinformation campaign and the false information that has been unfortunately spread irresponsibly by some of my colleagues in the house, because it endangers the safety of people across the border.
in writing. we spanish socialists underline the strength of european unity and call for all efforts to be concentrated not only on maintaining pressure on putin but also on strengthening the strategic autonomy of the european union in energy and defence. we advocate in the medium and long term diversifying energy supplies, increasing interconnections, creating strategic reserves, launching joint gas purchases and accelerating the pace of renewable energy installations. and in the short term, we call for urgent decisions to alleviate the economic consequences of this war which are already being felt in the pockets of european citizens, mainly in the shopping basket and in the energy bill. that is why we are advocating the design of a mechanism to reduce the most vulnerable households and businesses while at the same time increasing taxes on electricity companies for the profits that have fallen from the sky, in order to balance the social costs of the crisis. it is also time for europe to take responsibility for its own security by increasing its defence and security capabilities in an efficient and innovative way. finally, the spanish socialists are calling once again for a new pact on migration and asylum.
in writing. we remain stunned by the violence we face every day: russian attacks on civilians and civilian objects, including hospitals, medical facilities, schools and shelters, have resulted in countless civilian deaths and injuries. i supported the call for all countries to join the sanctions imposed and for all attempts to circumvent the sanctions or to provide assistance to russia in any other way to be stopped. the reception of refugees fleeing the war in ukraine calls for our solidarity. i therefore welcome the rapid mobilisation of eu funds for refugees and those who host refugees.
i have to say, madam president, we are talking today about the consequences of the russian invasion of ukraine, which is contrary to international law, for our food security and thus for the eu's agricultural policy. we were fortunate to have never had too many subsidies, too much bureaucratic control from brussels and, of course, far too expensive for the taxpayer. recently, green lifestyle ideas such as greening or the 'from farm to table' strategy have been added. ladies and gentlemen, it is a real shame that it was only the war that opened your eyes and that we can only now hope for an end to the policy of rewarding farmers with subsidies for not farming their land. for years the commission, supported by this house and many on the left and the greens, has done everything possible at national level to make food more expensive. the german minister for agriculture - a green, of course - called for higher food prices in december. now you and he fear and lament the same. how untrustworthy can you get? it took a war to finally wake you up from your global and - as we know today - security and socially irresponsible agricultural dreams. that is why i ask you to reform the agricultural policy at last! you must accept modern production methods! our amendments are on the table.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. putin's war of aggression is terrible. terrible, of course, especially for the people in ukraine but it can also quickly become a terror for the weakest in the world. ukraine alone could feed 400 million people. it was the granary of europe. the european union is not prepared to accept the death penalty. but it is also responsible for the fact that millions more people are starving and many more are dying. to prevent this, we need more humanitarian aid in the short term and more results in food security and poverty reduction in the medium term. to achieve this, it is good that we are speaking here in parliament, but we also have to invest. we cannot stand by and watch china and putin assert their interests on the african continent. we've seen where this is going with putin. a minute will not suffice to describe this subject - complex as it is - or to show the solution, but perhaps a minute of speaking time is also quite symbolic of the subject we are talking about. we have little time left, we must hurry, and the biggest mistake we could make would be to wait until it's too late and it's already over.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. putin's aggression against ukraine has serious and long-term consequences that go far beyond ukraine itself and even europe. one is the risk of a global food crisis. in the present situation, we must not be under any illusions that our policy will in no way jeopardise or reduce food production or impose additional burdens on farmers. current and newly introduced union agricultural policies need to be assessed urgently for their potential impact on food production and food security. we need a comprehensive strategy for the european union to ensure a secure supply chain. we must also use all the instruments we have in the cap to stabilise markets and support food production in the union. it is also important to provide for greater flexibility in the granting of state aid to agriculture. the european union should also support the world food programme and developing countries in building their capacity and resilience. in these difficult times, we must be realistic about the enormity of the challenges we face and take decisive action. we can't feed people with empty words.
madam president, commissioner, minister, european farmers are worried about fuel, fertiliser and feed prices, and citizens are rightly worried about food prices. at times like these, we realise how important it is to have a common agricultural policy that ensures our food security. we now have a duty to use all these tools at our disposal at european level and to support our farmers, not only to produce food for the union, but also for other regions dependent on exports from war zones. we need to activate the crisis reserve to help farmers access fertiliser at a reasonable price; we need to cultivate every remaining unused hectare to replenish exports from ukraine and russia; and, not least, we need to help ukraine with financial, logistical support and the establishment of alternative transport corridors.
madam president, commissioner, this illegal and criminal invasion of ukraine is going to create a situation of food insecurity thousands and thousands of miles from the war. many countries that are already living on food aid will see their situation deteriorate and low-income countries that are heavily dependent on food imports will also. in the european union we are self-sufficient in a great many products. we export wheat, but we depend on inputs like fertilizer, pesticides, or fossil fuels that have increased production tremendously. that is why our farmers need exceptional, flexible, rapid and temporary measures to help them produce, but of course without compromising the european green deal roadmap, which will prevent the deterioration of our ecosystems and biodiversity and will undoubtedly make european agriculture much more sustainable, resilient and of course independent.
i agree with the resolution and call on parliament to support the epp group's amendments. i ask the commissioner the same thing. no more good farmland to nature! the 'farmer to plate' strategy and the biodiversity strategy are undermining food production. we hear it everywhere. these need to be put in the fridge. the objectives must be reconsidered. it is time to invest in innovation: that is europe, isn't it? to allow the full use of green fertiliser substitutes from processed animal manure. i've been waiting 35 years for that. would you ask commissioner timmermans to make this happen? this is necessary to reduce our dependence on carbon-intensive and expensive chemical fertilisers and to use biogas as an alternative energy source. that's very important. it is time to increase food production in our european countries. we must now support our farmers, gardeners and fishermen to achieve this. finally, europe must do everything possible to save the current seed and legume season in ukraine, as the ukrainian minister for agriculture has asked us to do. europe is peace, plenty of food, but also innovation. let's get to work.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when this brutal war started in the middle of europe, the first reaction of a commission representative was that putin wanted to distract from the climate problem and that parliament was abusing the putin war by calling for more production. i want to make it clear to you that we are not only responsible for what we do, but also for what we do not do. and our real world is not a healthy world. that is why it is our duty to provide humanitarian aid. and the tears of the ukrainian minister of agriculture yesterday were not only real, they were a real cry for help. our farmers in europe are in the starting blocks to help. i therefore welcome all the measures that are being taken now and in the future to fulfil our potential and contribute to food security for the people of ukraine and for hungry people worldwide. this is sustainable policy. i thank all the political forces for their insight and foresight.
in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, seven motions for resolutions were tabled. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 march 2022. the president of the commission written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the id group has sent the president decisions on the change of appointments to committees. these decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr van overtveldt, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a pilot scheme for market infrastructures based on distributed ledger technology (com ((2020) 0594 c9-0305/2020 2020/0267 cod)) (a9-0240/2021).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 march 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs angelika winzig, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on roaming on public mobile networks in the union (recast) (com (2021) 0085 c9-0085/2021 2021/0045cod)) (a90286/2021).
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. there is no doubt that we must also provide support to those countries which are providing humanitarian aid here in a disinterested manner. i would like to point out, however, that we are sending out signals with macrofinancial assistance. the aim here - and this has already been made clear today - is at least to give the impression of future eu membership. i'm just warning you. i think we should use the funds we are now sending to moldova - also in the light of the current refugee crisis - which i would be happy to increase - in a targeted way and not in the context of macrofinancial assistance. because in the end, it also means that we are sending the wrong signals to moldova. and that makes no sense at all, because we say: this country is still ranked 105th in the world in the corruption index, and it hasn't improved in that ranking since 2012. in this respect, let us give aid. let us also take account of the humanitarian situation, but in a targeted way and not in the context of macrofinancial assistance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. oligarchs own a football club, oligarchs own a superyacht, oligarchs build palaces for themselves. when you think of oligarchs, you immediately think of putin, of abramovich, of the enemies of democracy. but oligarchs do not only exist with russian oil, but also with eu agricultural funds. the eu has bred its own caste of super-rich oligarchs. viktor orbán is building a football stadium in front of his house. his foreign minister is sailing a superyacht across the adriatic. orban's father is converting a former royal palace into a golf course. and we're funding the enemies of the eu with our tax dollars to live a life of luxury. mr hahn, you are the commissioner for the budget. they send 527 million euros every month to the orbán government. the money is actually intended for the hungarians. but far too often they don't. instead, the money might fund the next private jet. or in the worst case, the orbán oligarchs buy the last independent daily newspaper in the country. the russian oligarchs are being frozen funds and superyachts are being taken away. it is time we finally got serious about fighting the eu oligarchs and freezing eu funds, which end up blatantly corrupt. let us finally trigger the rule of law mechanism.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you very much, mrs hohlmeier, for this excellent report. i think we can all agree that oligarchic structures, corruption and fraud - no matter who is doing it - must be fought relentlessly. we also agree that the main obstacle to effective fraud prevention is the lack of or often inadequate cooperation between our fraud prevention authorities and the national stakeholders involved - and often these are the oligarchs themselves. and unfortunately we cannot exclude a single member state. it's all over the place. if we do not have the political will, we can make so many rules here, we can carry out so many checks, we can strengthen olaf and the eppo, financially or in terms of staff, and we will fail in the fight against these oligarchs. we've seen it over and over again. maybe we should take a completely different approach. i'll make a suggestion, i've made it before: if funds are proven to be misused or used, if there is and is evidence, then they must be repaid in full, including a let's call it a 20% handling fee. only after repayment can new appropriations be authorised and disbursed. if fraud is not worth it - yes, if it costs more than it brings in - then, ladies and gentlemen, this evil business will soon be over.
in writing. ukraine has been attacked by russia. she has other problems than what we're discussing here today. nevertheless, it is right to point out that putin is to blame for a lot, but not for ukraine's poverty despite its mineral resources, its fertile fields and 20 years of eu subsidies. i quote the european court of auditors from september last year: corruption at the highest level and so-called state takeover are widespread in ukraine. tens of billions of euros are lost every year as a result of corruption. the eu has long known about these links between oligarchs, high-ranking officials, politicians, the judiciary and state-owned enterprises. but the commission is often too generous in its assessment. it's good that you finally recognized the problem with the oligarchic structures and the state takeover. but what you continue to underestimate is your own share of the situation. if you spend taxpayers' money - no matter how much flowery talk - without checking its whereabouts thoroughly, you logically encourage that money to be seized before it gets where it should go. you'll have to stop this and wipe out the corruption.
i have to say, madam president, the conference on the future of europe claims that europeans wanted an eu state with an eu constitution, decided by the participation of 800 citizens, selected by a subsidiary of the us private equity investment company bain. let me remind you: 800 is 1.8 millionths of the eu's nearly 450 million citizens. the 1.8 millionth is hardly a fault. they come with joy and curiosity, and pro-eu spinelli experts tell them that only brussels, which knows exactly what to do, but fails to veto the national vote, can solve big problems. the choice now is between european virtue and national obstinacy. it is no wonder that the citizens' recommendations are similar to the plans that macron and merkel launched with ursula von der leyen in 2019. nothing is random and everything is orchestrated.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on 'the eu's energy' and 'a common european approach to more affordable, secure and sustainable energy' (2022/2589 ((rsp)). i would point out that you can use your voting machine to request spontaneous messages using the 'catch-the-eye' procedure and to insert blue cards after you have inserted your voting card. so please bring your voting card to the plenary. the instructions are also on display in the chamber. if you wish to register for a spontaneous debate, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. this does not apply to spontaneous comments made under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure, to blue cards and to comments on the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the answer to the energy crisis cannot be that we subsidize fossil fuels unconditionally. of course, the green deal will make us more independent in the long run. that's not gonna help us now. this does not help our citizens who suffer from high prices, nor does it help the businesses whose existence is threatened. the commission has made proposals. that's good. however, the focus here is on diversification. say, we exchange this one fossil gas for another fossil gas, which has one dependence with the other dependence. but there's now an impressive number of studies showing that we can be significantly independent of russian gas and oil by 2027. we're gonna have to start over here. i call on the commission to show more courage. accelerate aid procedures for efficiency measures and for renewable energy. help member states to get citizens' energy moving across europe. and think strategically. we need a strong solar industry in europe, and it is high time you started doing that.
i have to say, madam president, mrs paulus, to quote you just now: we need a strong solar industry in europe. we saw what that led to last time. it was a billion-dollar grave. it didn't work out the way you think it did. ladies and gentlemen, there is a certain amount of audacity - many in the room would say courage - in the fact that we are building ideological air-tight castles like the green deal as a sign of a certain foresight, and then we are caught up in reality and then we want to go back and sell this whole actionism as foresight. a small example: the moorburg coal-fired power plant near hamburg cost us 3 billion euros, was inaugurated in 2015, has been producing for exactly five years and is now to be decommissioned again and is at best still in reserve. i think it would have been more important in the past to have an open ear for the critics of this whole state than open time slots for selfies with some influencers. i would now like to do the same for the future. have sympathy for the critics, have an open ear for what's happened here so far, and row back from this failed green deal.
i have to say, madam president, yesterday i had the opportunity to speak to ilies, a young refugee from ukraine. he had one wish: no more buying coal, oil and gas from putin! don't finance this war with your climate-polluted lifestyles! we are transferring millions of euros to putin every day for his war machine, and that is intolerable. but instead of going all in to increase renewables and reduce consumption, take your time. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology. we don't have time for this. refugees like ilies don't have time. i'm asking you to go into crisis mode. finally, put the turbo in the expansion of renewable energy and the reduction of the consumption of coal, oil and gas. and don't start subsidizing putin's oil and gas with billions of dollars in taxpayer dollars.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think the absolute urgency of moving away from fossil fuels is finally visible to all. we realise how much we need the policy sphere, public money and strategic private investment to make the shift away from fossil fuels to renewable happen. yet, the energy charter treaty (ect) is keeping us back, and i think we have a big, big unity on that in the european union. and it’s good. millions and millions of euro in lost public money, the litigation, the threat of expensive cases, and the changes that did not happen because of said threats. the ect is a danger for the green deal and the energy transition, and we need an urgent solution to this problem. many colleagues mentioned this today. i applaud the commission for trying to modernise the ect, but i fear the modernisation is not delivering. it is too little. it is too late. the us is pushing for an ect reform that is not compatible with the paris agreement and the possible landing zones that are identified by the negotiators are even significantly weaker. fossil fuel protection will not end with this proposal. so i believe it is really time to free our governments from the really irrational, irresponsible shackles of the ect. a coordinated exit is legally not very complex to organise. all it needs is political will. i urge you to exit this treaty, neutralise its sunset clause, and get on with the fastest shift away from fossil fuels that we can make happen. two questions to conclude, because i think they were not really answered in your introduction. are you already preparing this exit? it is too late for us to notice in june that we don’t have a modernised approach. are you already coordinating and preparing the exit? and can we as parliament have access to all the negotiation documents?
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the sixth assessment report of the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) (2022/2574 ((rsp)). i would point out, as we now begin the sitting, that we are trying out some of the recommendations of the focus group on reform of the plenary. with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after inserting your voting card into the voting machine, you can apply for spontaneous reports and blue cards via your voting machine. please carry your voting card with you at all times. the relevant instructions are posted on each seat in the chamber. if you wish to speak spontaneously, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. i would also like to point out that blue cards can also be held up for a short verbal message and that a follow-up question is permitted afterwards. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be dealt with from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time so that we can proceed with the debate quickly and then take as many colleagues as possible into account in the blue cards.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the urgency of adopting the minimum tax directive (2022/2617 ((rsp)). we are still free to choose our seats, and we are also using the possibility of spontaneous word exchange and the blue cards.
i have to say, madam president, 360 billion euros in profits were made by multinational corporations in 2020 alone. while many small businesses have suffered greatly in recent years, amazon, daimler or bayer are making huge profits. in the retail and catering sectors in particular, many small businesses are still struggling to survive. it's unfair that amazon still pays less in taxes as a percentage than the bookstore around the corner. it's too easy for big corporations to shift their profits into tax loopholes. that is why we need a global tax rate of at least 15 percent, and we need it now. we in the green group are firmly opposed to the delayed introduction of the minimum tax at the end of 2023 and to large exemptions for some member states. we call on the blockading countries, estonia and poland, to clear the way for the minimum tax at the meeting of finance ministers this week.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr cyrus engerer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision (eu) 2015/1814 as regards the quantity of allowances to be placed in the market stability reserve for the union greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme until 2030 (com ((2021) 0571 c9-0325/2021 2021/0202 ((cod)) (a009-452022).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the pictures of war atrocities in bucha on innocent ukrainian citizens are horrifying and at the same time, putin is playing us with his coal, gas and oil. we must not be blackmailed by putin. what we need for this is strong climate policies to move away from fossils and move to 100% renewables. i cannot understand those who call now for a stop or pause of europe's co2 trading scheme – our most powerful climate policy tool. instead of stopping it, we need to strengthen it. every euro we spend more on renewables is a euro will spend less for putin's war machine. and he fears that. he fears an energy-independent europe, so let’s build it. freeing us from oil, coal and gas is regaining freedom. climate policies must not fall victim to putin's war.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu is currently responsible for about 8-9% of global co2 emissions and this share, on current trends, could fall to around 5-6% in 2030. in this context, the green deal and the 'ready for 55%' package, of which the ets report is part, are in practice an industrial revolution with the goal of zero emissions. previous industrial revolutions were driven by the need to respond to market growth; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy. the doubling of the absorption rate of the market stabilisation reserve is one of a series of measures being introduced without adequate justification and aimed at artificially increasing the price of co2, which has already increased significantly over the last two years, with consequent higher costs for households and businesses. instead, effective measures must be put in place to counter any speculative behaviour on the carbon market that unduly harms the operators of the ets. the strengthening of article 29 on fluctuations in the price of co2 certificates is essential. in a very unstable international environment, with serious risks to energy supplies and exponentially rising costs, we risk damaging the competitiveness of our companies by such measures, putting valuable jobs at risk, when the real polluters are outside europe. the real polluters are outside europe!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. successful climate action is only possible if the different approaches to climate change are combined. the key approach to a climate-friendly and greenhouse gas-neutral future is technological solutions and forward-looking innovation. this will ensure value creation at the location of the business and will also limit global warming. emissions trading alone is not going to solve the problem of global warming. because a system that allows emissions and allows emissions trading is always open to question. higher prices do not automatically lead to better climate protection, but they deprive companies of liquidity for much-needed investments. further tightening of the ems and of the so-called burden sharing must be thoroughly analysed in terms of the impact on the competitiveness of our companies, but also on our people. it would be grossly negligent to rely solely on border balancing mechanisms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the crisis in the former yugoslavia. that's why we need a stress moratorium. on the other hand, we need much more renewable technologies to provide climate-friendly energy even faster. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. they are the a and o so that crucial technological solutions can also be put into practice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commissioner. i should like to use the short time i have to make a point which i consider important. the fact is that the brexit adjustment reserve is designed to help a very limited group of people - namely the fisheries sector, which is particularly affected - and for a very limited period of time. in this context, i consider it problematic that the commission, for competition reasons, uses the eafrd/emff support quota, so that in individual cases the full amount of the reserve for adjustment to brexit cannot be used. that's a problem, as is the time frame. we're having a lot of supply chain issues right now. the commission has already made a number of proposals. here too, an adjustment should be considered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask the commission to reconsider this and i wish those in the commission who are fighting for this to have a good time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. eu commissioner šefčovič wants to bring ukraine into the eu because ukrainians are dying for european values. for 20 years, the eu has been helping ukraine to fight corruption without success. because in a special report last year, the european court of auditors in ukraine attests to the existence of large-scale corruption and the appropriation of the state by private interests. corruption at the highest level hinders competition, growth and democratisation. tens of billions of euros are lost every year. ukraine is one of the poorest countries in europe, behind albania. your ukraine policy has failed, as have your russia policy, your migration policy and your economic policy. the only thing you can think of in all your shipwrecks is to import other countries' problems into the eu. the commission's crisis policy is just a pretext to accustom europeans to ever lower living standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! this war has shaped a whole generation of children in ukraine. but it also shapes a whole generation of young europeans, children and young people, who are watching how we deal with this war and how we deal with the refugee children and young people. that's why it's important: the seven and a half million children in ukraine who need protection, who need help - it's been said - who need psychosocial support here. that's why it's important that we make this debate a star hour. i find it outrageous that the council is not present, it is obviously not a sufficiently interesting debate here. it is therefore very important that we have asked the council - and we have done so as the s&d group - to put forward a child protection package once again. children need special protection in europe. and if we don't, who else is going to give them that? it has already been said - ylva johansson has said it: we must first of all treat these refugee children as children. it sounds simple, but it's not. that is why we need special measures. so education is hugely important that we really, really make access inclusive, but also that we give digital support to these young children, childcare and access to the labour market for women. it has been said that the exploitation of these women and children is always a great danger, and we see the vultures already waiting there, international organizations here, who actually have networks of traffickers. we have to stop this! and another point: we can be proud in europe that we have the child guarantee, the child guarantee. but we have to freshen them up now. we must adapt them to this situation, both in terms of content and in terms of finances. because one thing is also clear - i said it at the beginning - we will be measured in the end by whether we were able to protect these children in this war. we in parliament will do everything we can to ensure that these children are sufficiently safe.
mr president, when the war started in ukraine, my first thought was: what happens to the 2.7 million people with disabilities in that war? what does war mean from the perspective of a child with disabilities? in ukraine, 82 000 children live with disabilities. it might be more. when your parents are afraid and you cannot flee, what does it mean to you? when you are a wheelchair user, how is it possible for you to go down in a bomb cellar, with your parents or not? how do you know that’s an alarm when you can’t hear the sirens and your parents aren’t there? i contacted a disability ngo in kyiv. i asked him, ‘what do you need?’ answer: ‘everything, but the most is attention. no one cares about us, about persons and children with disabilities. there’s no access to transport. there is no access to information, no access to accessible shelters. and how do we know how accessible the places are where the families with disabled children need to go? is there an accessible shelter in poland? is there an interpreter for deaf people? for me as a deaf person? i don’t know. so i stay in kyiv nevertheless, if the bombs are there or not.’ when we want to support ngos, structures and support children with disabilities, we must be sure that the money goes into an accessible direction. it must be used for accessibility. we have to offer accessible healthcare, accessible shelters, accessible education, personal assistance, interpreters inside the european union and our member states. i call on the commission – you – and member states to take the uncrpd article 7 into account, where it’s written ‘[i]n all actions concerning children with disabilities, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration’.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i myself have travelled to ukraine with aid and i have seen a country in fear. and i've seen men who are deeply committed to defending their country. and i saw women and children running. and they are in danger, of course. they're particularly vulnerable. the criminal traffickers are waiting. forced prostitution, forced labor, organ trafficking - all of these are real dangers. and we have to protect them. but unfortunately we also have to protect them from young men from africa and the middle east who have mixed in and are taking advantage of this terrible crisis to enter europe illegally. in düsseldorf, an 18-year-old ukrainian girl was raped by a tunisian and a nigerian. and then she fled from germany to poland because she didn't feel safe in germany anymore. this is a scandal! i myself have taken refugees into my apartment, a young woman with her three-month-old baby and her mother. these refugees have papers. these refugees want to work. they want to learn german. the young mother is already working in the catering business. after three weeks in germany, she's working in the catering business. five million people have already set out, and many more are to come. and if we want to help these real refugees, we have to finally decide: are we helping real refugees or are we helping lucky charmers? we are helping young men from the middle east and africa who come to us without any documents, who come to us completely illegally and without any reason to flee, who leave their parents, their families, their children behind in their homeland, who travel through safe countries and then abuse our hospitality. i want to create space, i want to create resources for real refugees. i want to help real refugees. i want to help women and children.
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs kempa, the efforts being made by the frontline countries poland, hungary, slovakia and romania are being recognised throughout the european union, but that is not the final destination of displaced people: they are arriving in estonia, they are arriving in austria, they are arriving in the czech republic, which means that we are therefore facing a change of era that will require a solidarity effort with sufficient funding. you refer to a letter, which was not a personal initiative but was written by me as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, following the mandate of the spokesmen's panel of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, in which it is recalled that yes, the frontline border countries deserve all the help, but that does not exempt them from complying with the outstanding judgments of the court of justice of the european union, particularly in the case of poland and hungary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the unspeakable pain of the past few weeks has been a constant concern for all of us. over four million refugees outside ukraine, over ten million internally displaced persons within ukraine. always on the go, always ready to move on. first and foremost, women and children. i've been in romania for the last few days, at the border. the situation is calmer in the places i've been. the number of arrivals is steady, but no longer jumpy. at the same time, we know that on the other side of the bridge there are thousands of people from the disputed areas who have found shelter and care for the time being with relatives, acquaintances, friends or even strangers, but who will be on their way at any time if further development requires it. it's a small section that i was allowed to see, a country of some in the forefront. but the personal experience of the willingness to help on the ground, the preparation and vigilance of the national authorities, the cooperation with the agencies is impressive. whether it is frontex, europol, our asylum agency, the coordinators for combating trafficking in human beings - they are giving their all, and they are trying to be everywhere at the same time to support the member states. one of the phrases that has stuck with me is: "we hope for the best, we are prepared for the worst". the european union has a duty to protect the people of ukraine. we promised them we'd take care of the children, the women who come to us. i see what the services are doing, commissioner. i see the staff working around the clock, i see what the agencies and the member states are doing. but still, we have to keep working to put a lid on it. because this promise of protection must not be broken under any circumstances. we need to know where the humans are. we need to know where the children are and how they're being cared for. we need to know where the women and children are and how they're being cared for. we must use all our strength and all the instruments at our disposal to prevent children from being lost, women from disappearing and, in the best case, from reappearing alive but in forced prostitution or exploitative work. we need more data exchange, full use of the solidarity platform, including for the exchange of child protection and anti-trafficking strategies, and still more cooperation and involvement of the agencies. but the first and most important step, and by comparison almost unbelievably simpler, is registration, registration, registration!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the ipcc presented its new report yesterday, and mr guterres and mr andersen have made their point very clearly. we must act now. not next year, not next month, not tomorrow, but today. but today we are voting on a regulation on transeuropean energy infrastructure which is out of date, cementing investment in fossil gas for years, if not decades. and the current crisis in the price of fossil fuels shows how risky these dependencies are. i am also not sure that qatar and azerbaijan are such pure democracies that we would very, very much like to continue importing fossil fuels from. in the case of gas, there are methane emissions, which the ipcc also says must be reduced by at least a third by 2030. there are also good points in this regulation - they have been mentioned - but with this framework far too much funding will go to fossil projects and not to the future. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject this as it is.
i have to say, madam president, we must become independent of russian gas and, of course, diversify our imports. but we do not have to become dependent on the next dictatorship in the same way. and we do that when we invest too much in infrastructure, which is a manifestation of the fact that we still need fossil fuels in the future. instead, we must build up renewables. but for that we need interconnectors and we need a european energy market, especially in the electricity sector. i think you have to name a horse and rider. the french are blocking very vehemently in the pyrenees the access of the iberian peninsula to the european energy market. why would you do that? but only to advance their own failed nuclear policy. i think this is extremely un-european of a president who can happily put his people's money into nuclear power stations, but cannot ask the whole of europe to block the expansion of renewable energy. instead, the president of france and above all the commission must work to ensure that france finally makes these interconnectors possible and that we have a real european energy market and thus gain independence and above all be able to support ukraine in the war.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, nicolae ştefănuţă, for his excellent work. we are discussing the budget now, of course, in a different context. and it is all the more important that we stand up for a strong europe and set the right priorities. people are worried about the economy. we see rising prices. and it's even more important that we rely on a strong economy to help us meet these challenges together. and that makes it all the more important that we put a focus in the budget, especially on the small and medium-sized enterprises - the start-ups - to achieve innovation and a strong economy. but we also need to continue to tackle the big transformation challenges of digitisation and decarbonisation, which have not become less important, even in the current political environment. and that is where we should be focusing on research, on innovation. europe must do something new together. and at the same time i would like to call on the commission to finally use the rule of law mechanism now. because every euro that ends up in the hands of corrupt opponents of the rule of law not only loses its value for the political priorities of the union, but the union also loses a little of its value through each of these euros. and we should stop that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe is swaying from crisis to crisis, from pandemic to a terrible war of aggression. but yesterday's wcc report reminded us once again that behind the scenes, the worst crisis of all is unfolding. we must act now! without immediate and decisive reductions in emissions, the 1.5°c target will no longer be achievable. but the good news is that many member states and many cities are already working on it. there are many climate actions, and the cost of the energy transition is falling. that means we have to act now! we will be setting the tone in the 2023 budget. we are calling for adequate funding for climate, biodiversity and environmental protection programmes such as the life fund. we are strengthening the just transition fund for coal regions, because coal-fired power stations are not compatible with a future for humanity on this planet. we are strengthening the climate and biodiversity tracking method across the budget, but we are also strengthening the rule of law conditional. we need it, because even if poland is now taking in refugees in an exemplary way: there's enough for that. but that must not be an excuse for turning european democracy into an autocratic system. (the speaker agreed to a question on the 'blue card' procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it is not a question of individual examples, which i have to mention here. the point is that when there is no longer a system of separation of powers in a state, when the government itself controls who the judges are, who are the watchdogs of corruption, who are the watchdogs of misuse of funds, then there is no longer an independent review. it is also very difficult to teach these examples at all, because there is no way to investigate anything without independent prosecutors and without an independent judiciary. that is the foundation of the democracy we stand for. i think that is also good for the poles.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. i would like to make four points and not go into the ukraine war this time. firstly, the report does not take into account the rapidly rising inflation. i fear that this inflation will turn all our fine budgets into junk. what are our responses to this threat to the common citizen? secondly, the report is still indulging in ambitious green deal projects. it should be more geared to the basic needs of the people who are suffering. thirdly, the report mentions gender terms 89 times, but it does not even mention the nucleus, the foundation of our society: the family. fourthly, the report reinforces the transformation of the eu into a huge centralised health authority, thus promoting the division of society into the willing and the unwilling - the ones who submit to the orders and the others who value their freedom more. my dear colleagues, is that really what we want? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is my sincere wish to the commission for the coming easter.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday, april 5, 2022. (the sitting was suspended at 1.55 p.m.)
i am not going to go into detail. i know that it is an exciting moment for all of us - the first time in 26 months that a vote has been taken here in strasbourg. i'm still allowed to ask you to sit down, but it's not up to me. i'd like you to take a seat. the most important request, because some of you are not used to this, is that you should bring your voting card. you will see that we have a little more time, so you can get the voting card, although i am calling the votes now. but we have three points that are related to speaking time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
on behalf of the envi committee. – mr president, this is an important proposal that is for the accession of medicines to our countries in ireland, malta and cyprus. and for that reason, indeed, it is important that we are voting in favour of that. however, we do have problems that the commission is again, on such a very important measure, which is having an impact on our internal market, going for an urgency procedure. we are willing to take that this time, but we really want to make sure that the commissioner next time allows parliament proper scrutiny on these kinds of measures, and on this one also to keep parliament up to date for the implementation, to make sure that the integrity of our internal market is maintained and that this is only a temporary derogation.
does anyone in the house wish to speak against the request for urgent procedure? that's not the case. (parliament adopted the resolution) * the vote will take place on thursday 7 april 2022, at 12.00 noon. amendments may be tabled until 5 april 2022 at 7 p.m. the deadline for requesting separate and distinct votes is tomorrow, april 6, 2022, 4:00 p.m. the following table is presented in order of appearance: for further details, see minutes.
again, before the vote, only the proposer and one speaker against the proposal may be heard together with the chairman or rapporteur of the committee responsible. (parliament adopted the resolution) * the vote will take place on thursday 7 april 2022, at 12.00 noon. amendments may be tabled until 5 april 2022 at 7 p.m. the deadline for requesting separate and distinct votes is tomorrow, april 6, 2022, 4:00 p.m. for further details, see minutes.
on behalf of the committee on regional development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the committee on regional development and its chairman, mr younous omarjee, who is not with us today because he is on a mission in poland, on the polish-ukrainian border. he's trying to identify the needs of this refugee crisis that we have. i would like to express my support for an urgent vote on the proposal for increased advance payments from reacteu resources. for over a month, ukraine has been in a horrific war, caused by the brutal and unjustified aggression of russia. as a result, since february 24, more than 4 million refugees have arrived in europe, including 2.5 million in poland, more than 600,000 in romania, nearly 400,000 in moldova and hungary, and nearly 300,000 in slovakia. war allows these people to take only the most basic things, which makes the needs of these people enormous. from clothing, personal hygiene and food, to shelter, medical care, including psychological care, and employment opportunities, to education for hundreds of thousands of children. there are many, many needs. i do not think i need to spend three minutes convincing my colleagues that the member states should be given support as soon as possible in this situation. at the last part-session we also adopted as a matter of urgency the so-called care regulation, which allows flexibility in the use of cohesion policy funds to help refugees. i am pleased that the european commission has come up with the care+ proposal, which will allow for an increase in the amount of advance payments from reacteu funds, in particular for the member states that are facing the largest influx of refugees from ukraine. i therefore call on the committee on regional development and other members to give their full support to the commission's proposal during this part-session. let us show our unity and solidarity in this tragic situation!
does anyone in the house wish to speak against the request for urgent procedure? that's not the case. (parliament adopted the resolution) * the same deadlines as those mentioned above apply here, which also apply to the preparations for the examination, namely the vote on thursday, 7 april 2022, 12 o'clock, amendments until today, 5 april 2022, 19 o'clock, and the deadline for requesting separate and separate votes tomorrow, 6 april 2022, 16 o'clock. for further details, see minutes.
chair of the itre committee. – mr president, i will be brief. the situation in energy has changed drastically and we need to address this with the urgency it requires. energy has been used for geopolitical purposes by russia for a long time. the russian aggression against ukraine has shown us that what looked like a distant possibility was instead a true immediate danger for all of us. it is now time to take decisive measures. against the background of this crisis and after the versailles decisions, the commission proposed, on 23 march, a targeted amendment to both regulations with the aim to urgently ensure a sufficient level of gas storage ahead of next winter and be better prepared for unexpected and potentially longer lasting supply difficulties. the proposal sets a minimum gas storage, filled by 1 november each year, and already we need to start in august 2022, this year, which requires that the regulation enters into force as soon as possible. this is a race against time. parliament is ready to react. we need to engage with the council in negotiations urgently, and that’s why, on this basis, the itre coordinators unanimously decided, on 23 march, that the proposal should be treated as urgent, and appointed a negotiating team, coordinated by president buzek, ensuring the full involvement by all political groups throughout the negotiations with the council. so the itre committee is kindly requesting the application of the urgent procedure under rule 163 to the commission proposal for a regulation on gas storage. should our request be approved by parliament today, then on thursday we would ask that the matter be referred back to the itre committee for interinstitutional negotiations with the aim to conclude swiftly and in a fully transparent manner.
i thank you very much, mr buşoi. i don't see anyone who wants to speak against the motion. (parliament adopted the resolution) * the vote will take place on thursday 7 april 2022, at 12.00 noon. amendments may be tabled until 5 april 2022, 7:00 p.m. the deadline for requesting separate and distinct votes is tomorrow, april 6, 2022, 4:00 p.m. for further details, see minutes.
mrs rafaela has asked to speak in favour of the request. before the vote:
the next speaker is mrs skyttedal, who has asked to speak against the motion.
ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to take your seats. it's perfectly fine that you're happy, even that you give your colleagues applause. i would just like to point out two things: i did not want to spoil the mood today, especially in an obviously contentious dossier, but i would point out that i will be speaking to the president about the procedure today, that two speakers have spoken, although the rules of procedure are very clear. and i think we have to stick to the rules, the rules that you obviously want to achieve with your legislation. you want them to be respected. we have to follow the rules or we have to change the rules. but this isn't a place where everyone can do what they want, and this isn't a stadium. the committees may, after this vote, enter into interinstitutional negotiations. the report will then be put back on the agenda in plenary.
mr president, i would like to request referral back to committee pursuant to rule 59(4) so that we may begin interinstitutional negotiations.
i can tell you again, because we have not voted in a large-scale and in person for so long, that you must leave your card in the machine until i have closed the vote, otherwise your vote will be neutralised. so please do not take the card off until after the vote has closed. the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. ladies and gentlemen, we have spent the last four months thinking a lot about how we can make the plenary more attractive. i would like to point out that at 3 p.m. there will be a question and answer session with the president of the commission. question time is actually a very precious right of parliament, so i would be glad if as many of you as possible were present. (the sitting was suspended at 2.30 p.m.)
the next item is question time with the commission. the topic is ‘the von der leyen commission: two years on, implementation of the political priorities’.
madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission! i would like to point out that we are witnessing a situation without precedent in the history of the european union. never before has any european institution been confronted with such serious issues. during our term of office, both the european commission and the european parliament have faced challenges so difficult that, frankly, we don't know much about how to deal with them. it's a little bit like a situation where you have to test your strength, your resilience. can the union stand it? is the union that resilient? except this isn't a drill. this is not a drill. this is absolutely real. i would therefore like to ask the president a few questions. firstly, in the light of the experience with vaccines, i would like to ask the president what kind of lesson the european commission is drawing from this experience. what has worked and what has not worked with covid and vaccine-related activities? and so, if we look at the situation today, i just wanted to remind the president that we as a group have submitted to the european commission documents, information on what we consider to be the most urgent. i would therefore like to ask the president how the european commission intends to approach the current situation. what are the short-term plans, what are the long-term plans? is the european commission going to conduct what we call in our documents a stress test? review of both existing and developing legislation for entirely new conditions. does the commission intend to carry out such a stress test and when? is the european commission going to take such a radical approach to budgetary issues, firstly, with regard to the revision of the mff and also with regard to the examination of the use of the reconstruction fund, nextgenerationeu? does the commission intend to take action to improve the coordination of reception of refugees in the european union? those are my questions. i would ask you, madam president, to answer.
president of the commission. – madam president, thank you so much. many questions for the beginning, indeed. the first question you asked was on the lessons learned with the vaccines, and if there’s one lesson we have learned with the vaccines it is that, for huge global challenges, the one and only way to address them is as 27 with unity. just imagine for a second that all 27 member states would have gone on their own where the vaccines are concerned, then three or four member states perhaps would have had vaccines. the rest would not have had any access to vaccines. it would have completely destroyed our european union. so the first lesson is indeed the big challenges. we are much better together if we act united. of course, we developed strategies or also structures that are necessary after this pandemic. for example, hera, for example, the health union. so, we understand that we have to improve and adapt and modernise our structures. where the budgetary issues are concerned: indeed, we have a tight budget, without any doubt. i have not forgotten the negotiations around the budget and it’s tight and it’s programmed now and it’s very much allocated to the different topics. and now we see how it is when you have almost no wiggle room because there is no extra money. we cannot print money, there is no free money. so it’s very much bound. and indeed, with a mid-term review, we have to check, we have to look: what have we done, what is ahead of us? are we still on track with what we have allocated? but there is a third element in your question referring to next generation eu. why did we form or develop next generation eu? because we understood the crisis is so huge, the crisis is so dominant that with the usual means and instruments and fund allocation, we are not able to manage it. so we did the one and only correct thing, that we said, let’s do it as 27 europeans together. and what we did better compared to the financial crisis, for example; there the solution was intergovernmental. so it was just the prescription for fragmentation that you could see. this time, we had trust on the european level, 27 member states backing the european commission to raise capital on the market, and the rest of the elements you very much know. so this shows that, yes, we have our budget, we have our usual procedures but for extraordinary situations we sometimes need extraordinary means and step forward. finally – i cannot see my time because there are so many... so, no, i am already way over my time, sorry, but i need a little hole to see the second step – and honourable members, if it’s fine with you, i remain standing because i have a medical issue on my back, so it’s better for me if i remain standing and look at you. a lectern would be fine too. but no, i think we agreed on this here this way.
madam president, by the way, we are not speaking about the mid—term review, but mid-term revision. but my question was what about the stress test? i mean the revision of legislation which exists in the future.
president of the commission. – not if it’s appropriate, because things you have done in the past might have been good for the past, but the question is – and this is the stress—test element – is it fit for purpose? is it fit for the future? why not, is my answer.
madam president, president von der leyen, the pandemic and the war in ukraine have given the european union a new face. the union has shown that the european project can also be a powerful shield for people's health, for the safety of european citizens and for the improvement of their living conditions. the social summit in porto was an opportunity for leaders to take a number of actions and commit to further work on the european pillar of social rights, supporting the proposals and urgent objectives in this regard. however, it is time to find out what the commission is doing on this issue. the pandemic and the war can only justify more ambition than ever to be able to advance in the social sphere of the european project. in 2019, the commission presented us with a social agenda that is more urgent than ever, and that is why i ask you: where are we on the proposal for the european unemployment benefit reinsurance scheme or on the target of reducing the number of people living below the poverty line by 15 million?
president of the commission. – indeed, the core value and the hallmark of the european union is its social market economy. nowhere in the world do you have this exclusive and phenomenal model as we have it here. which is very clear, and it’s the success model after the second world war to say we all work hard together, but the benefit of our work is being evenly distributed. so there are checks and balances and you know, the elements from employer associations to trade unions to figure out where the right balance is. and the second topic, which is for me of utmost importance, and that is the social security system. the social security system that says everybody pays in. and we make sure that the big risks in life you are not let down. you are not alone, but we support you. it’s poverty. it’s maybe old age. it might be health or sickness. so these topics, unemployment are covered. and i am deeply convinced that this is one of the secrets why the european union is so successful and why the single market is so successful, and therefore it’s always important to contribute to it. you have been asking about the unemployment reinsurance. the sure instrument, which was crucial during the pandemic is a typical unemployment reinsurance. because it had all the elements that were necessary to say to the companies or to signal to the companies, don’t dismiss your employees in times of crisis and we support you keeping them in the company, even if there’s not enough work to do. because we know at the end of this crisis, skilled labour will be crucial to jump back again and to move forward to growth again. and it was the right thing to do. it was round about eur 100 billion, i think, 94, 95 billion have been allocated to 19 member states. and that was one of the reasons why – i was about to say in the aftermath of the pandemic, but we are not there yet – when things got better after the worst part of the pandemic, our economy bounced back so rapidly, because we had the skilled personnel and could immediately take on the orders that came worldwide. of course, there are other topics that we have to or had worked on. for example, the child guarantee just to name one, but also in the agenda where we had to fight child poverty, social exclusion. you know that member states should at least use 5% of their esf+ resources. i thank a lot that this is now a law that is put in place here. without your help, it would not have been possible. and there are other topics we will certainly – i see my time is again short – we will certainly talk again about.
madam president, madam von der leyen, of course the european social model is a successful model if we are really able to guarantee a balance between economic growth and social justice. that means being able to take advantage of that economic growth to translate into people being able to live better lives. i would therefore like to know where the european commission's proposal to introduce minimum income legislation in the european union that member states can implement is.
president of the commission. – the minimum wage directive is on its way, as you know. i think it has a fair chance and i hope it will be concluded. it is important for the minimum wage, for example, to really have a look at what we are asking for. i’m a deep believer in collective bargaining. this is, in my eyes, the right way to go forward for a minimum wage. and this is what is in the proposal. so it’s very clearly signalling to those member states – and we have many of them – that already have a good collective bargaining system in place to tell them, ‘you’re fine, that’s a good system. keep on going with that and it works. we’ve seen that’. but to those where this is not in place and where there is not really any kind of protection to the lower level of the income, there we signal very clearly that, if possible, a collective bargaining system should be put in place. if possible, the best is with employer unions and trade unions. if not, there are suggestions as to how to come to a minimum wage that strikes the right balance – not to be too low, not to be too high – in the circumstances a member state needs. so we’ve proposed, i think, a good model. it is also something which creates fairness among the member states and the market of 27. and, if there’s anything we’ve learned, then it is that our single market functions best if it’s well balanced, if there’s fairness in it, and if it is also harmonious in its rules. but this is another topic. so, to finish and to conclude, a minimum wage directive would absolutely be a goal to go for.
president of the commission. – indeed we had a cascade of crises. and looking back now to these two and a half years, i remember we were 95 days into the mandate when the pandemic hit. well, and you all know, we are two and a half years into the mandate and now we have a war at our doorstep. we fixed three priorities at the very beginning, the european green deal –and this is the huge, big, enormous crisis looming at the back and ongoing getting more and more serious, more and more severe. if you read the world climate council’s comments yesterday and today, you’re aware of that. and then we had the other crisis i was just talking about. so, the european green deal, absolutely necessary, first priority. and we will certainly speak in depth in this question time about it. digital – self-explaining. resilient? well, had i known before what is hidden behind the word resilient! now resilience, now we know it. what have we done? we have not only had the pandemic common strategy – and actually we are world leaders where the effects are concerned. we have exported 2 billion doses of vaccines. in comparison, just to give you that, china 1.2 billion. we have the best-vaccinated population for a region like we are with 450 million europeans, 72% now fully vaccinated and 52% boosted. we have been working on the resilience in the health union. now indeed, to come to the part in your question looking back and looking forward, is it still the right priorities? my answer is absolutely yes. but within the resilience part, i would emphasise stronger european defence and a conducive environment for our single market, focusing on the modern elements that we need, for example, hydrogen, for example, semi-conductors. we will certainly also speak in depth about that in the question time. but the general approach – european green deal, digital and resilience – is the right one, with new emphasis in the resilience part on defence and on the conducive economic environment.
president of the commission. – first of all, it was a big step forward to have the rule-of-law report with the individual reporting on each member state. and indeed, if we now focus on many different issues, but the issues you have mentioned in poland and in hungary, there are two main topics. in poland, it is the question of the independence of the judiciary. this is a big open question where we have an issue, without any question. and as you know, there is the article 7 procedure. as we know, we launched infringements and as we know and i guess we will discuss it, we have the open question of the resilience and recovery fund, next generation eu, which is not a typical instrument to deal with topics like that, but it’s an instrument for reform. and we put in the request that a major long—standing reform, a necessity in poland is, in the european semester, independence of judiciary. so happy to follow up on that. with hungary, we’ve been very clear the issue is corruption, and we have been very clear on the article 7 procedure. there are infringements also on other topics. we have been discussing with hungary questions that are concerning the resilience and recovery fund. here the main requirement for reform is the anti-corruption question, and we are at the moment being not able to find a common ground and to conclude. and then – with 13 seconds left! – there’s the big topic of the question of the conditionality mechanism. and i am happy to respond with fresh time on that.
madam president, just over a week before the invasion of ukraine, the commission presented its communication on defence, which was already quite ambitious at the time, even if your prerogatives in this area are limited. you have indicated very concrete ways, such as exemptions from vat or incentives for the financing of collaborative programmes and cooperative purchases within the european union. in the two council conclusions, the one in versailles and the one in brussels, it seems that the council has not really taken up your proposals. there was just a call for implementation of these provisions but there is not really any acceleration from a timetable which, at the time it was set by the commission, was more on 2023-2024. the emergency is here, action must be taken quickly. how do you interpret this relative freedom of the council? are you still on a faster timetable?
president of the commission. – madam president, this topic is an urgent topic. and we have certainly in a bitter way learned our lessons. and we are learning our lessons just to get it right, and this is very important. always at the very beginning: nato is the strongest military alliance in the world, and the european union will never, ever be a military alliance. but i see fields where nato is necessary. but i also see other theatres or other topics where the european union has to be able to act and to defend itself. interestingly, as you know, there’s the article 5 in nato and correspondent, article 42.7. now, what is the reality on the ground? the reality on the ground is we have 22 member states that are members of nato and we have 27 member states, of course, being members of the european union. they all have one single set of forces. this is from the member states’ view the departure point. they have one single set of forces and for them it’s important that they can, if necessary, allocate these forces to a european mission, to a nato mission, to a united nations mission, or to a coalition of the willing. from the european perspective, for us, if we look at our 27 member states, it’s important to look at what we can do to stop the fragmentation we have between those 27. where are the gaps that have to be filled with military capabilities and what are capabilities we do not have at all and we need to build up? and therefore, if i take the last one: big topic for us, cybersecurity, cybersecurity in the european union must is a must and we have to get much better and build up real reliable structures. the second topic is, if you look at the military capabilities: interoperability, can these different groups work together immediately? well, it depends if they have the same military equipment for that. we have created a system through pesco and the european defence fund that is nudging the member states to have a common research and development and to have a common procurement or development of capabilities. now what speed is concerned? mid-may, the commission will present a gap analysis and this is the basis then from for us to starting from that have the discussion what is necessary, what do we have to build up? how are we going to build it up and how are we going to finance it?
i have to say, madam president, madam president, i'm very pleased to have you here. i would like to remind you once again that in our letter before your election as s&d group we called for an agenda of change, we made a strong case for a conference on the future, we wanted to achieve a democratic push. and we've always seen that as part of, or preparation for, a convention. it's four weeks from now. we'll have a report. we shall have proposals from the conference on the future which have been put forward by representative citizens. in your political guidelines - i was very pleased to hear that - you attached great importance to the conference on the future. you also advocated the strengthening of democracy and parliamentarism, and said at the time: 'i am therefore open to treaty change.' so my question is: are you now campaigning accordingly for a convention following the future conference?
president of the commission. my basic position is still the same. and if we have just discussed the big issues of the time - i would not say we have discussed them, there is not enough time for that - then it is clear to all of us that big questions need to be answered. i think it's really, really great that we've managed to involve the citizens in this way. i would like to thank once again all those who have done a tremendous job in the past few months. this was absolutely necessary, and thank you very, very much. and now we're going to have the results in four weeks, and then we're going to have to decide: how do we deal with this? how do we deal with the big issues of the health union? how do we deal with the big questions of the defence union? i'll take the topics that have been discussed here. how do we deal with the question of the energy union? we shall certainly have to go into that later. how do we deal with the questions of enlargement and the urgent desires for enlargement that are there? how do we deal with unanimity in this context? these are not the "full" questions, but some of the "questions" that lie ahead. and i think we should be open to the question: does the treaty need to be amended to make a real step forward here? and have the crises of the past shown us that we cannot cope with the old instruments or the old limitations? but, and this is also an important point, can we move within the treaties and make improvements, modernisation and progress within the treaties? these questions are on the table. and as i said, my attitude hasn't changed. i'm open to it.
thank you very much. i would like to ask you again: if the citizens are committed to this and if it turns out that certain treaty amendments are needed, particularly in the area of strengthening democracy and parliamentarism, what would be the three key points that you think we should tackle and would you support them accordingly?
president of the commission. this is a hypothetical question, without knowing what the citizens are proposing and what our ideas are. yes, but we can't expect me to explain contract changes in one minute and 52 seconds. i think that would be disrespectful not only to the conference on the future but also to the magnitude of the subject. but again, i'm open to discussing these issues here. it takes courage, and i have it. and that takes a willingness to change. and i think that together, over the last two and a half years, we've shown that we can tackle big, tough issues with the courage and the will to change that we need.
madam president, in the face of this first unexpected test of the pandemic, you have managed to keep the green deal for europe on track and make it the central axis of the recovery plan. the russian aggression in ukraine is a second test and i must admit that i am a little worried. on the energy front, you have said that the only credible strategy for independence is to focus on renewables and energy savings, and i welcome that. but for now, the gas is the centrepiece of the system, as the taxonomic line has shown. the original sin of the green deal was to allow a productivist common agricultural policy largely based on fossil fuels to continue. the so-called 'farm to fork' strategy should allow us to correct the situation, but the first two texts aimed at implementing this strategy have been removed from the agenda. the agro-industrial lobby claims that only intensive agriculture based on fertilisers and pesticides can ensure our food security, when the truth is that agroecology is not only capable of feeding us, but that it is the only one capable of doing so by absorbing rather than emitting carbon, and restoring rather than slaughtering biodiversity. my question is simple: will the green deal for europe be the first collateral victim of vladimir putin at a time when the ipcc is asking us to speed up?
president of the commission. – definitely not, first of all. and i think it’s just the opposite. i think these last horrible 4 to 6 weeks have more than before shown us how important the european green deal is. we have seen the ugly dependency on fossil fuels. so moving away from fossil fuels into renewables and thus moving forward in the european green deal is not only a necessity because of climate change we have to fight, but it is also a strategic investment in security. and therefore, if there’s anything, there are certainly three things where putin did never calculate on. the first one is the unity that we have shown in the european union. the second one is the braveness of the ukrainian population and soldiers. that’s amazing to see that. the third one is that he is giving a strong push to get rid of the dependency of fossil fuels and to move forward to the strategic investment in renewables. if we just take fit for 55, that has been designed before the war. fit for 55, if we would go on as it is, – and we will not because we will accelerate, so we need more of it – if we would only do that, it would already be one third of our dependency of russian fossil fuels. the second step what we have done is diversify away from the russians into – yes, you’re right – liquefied gas. that’s true. but we do that because we also know we need it right now. but it’s also the infrastructure that is fit for purpose for the green hydrogen. therefore, the agreement i made together with the american president, joe biden, is not only about lng but also about our common goal to as soon as possible replace the gas by green hydrogen in the infrastructure that we are investing together. so two examples that show that if there is anything that happens, this will also push us, rightly so, away from the dependency from fossil fuels into the right way to go forward to investment in the renewables. and therefore the european green deal is as needed as never before.
yes, i heard you. what is true for energy is true for agriculture: we will have to free our agriculture from its dependence on fossil fuels. but i'd like to continue on the line of stéphane. will the rule of law in the european union be vladimir putin's second collateral victim? there is a real risk. we clearly have problems, you mentioned them. i would like you to elaborate a little on the actions you intend to take in the coming weeks, because what happened last sunday in hungary shows the result of total control of the media by the power.
president of the commission. – yes, well, two minutes and otherwise perhaps i can have a little bit more. indeed. and i hinted already at that, that looking at hungary, we now have to look at the topic of the conditionality mechanism. it is in force since january 2021. not a single case is lost, i want to be very clear here, otherwise we would not be today able to do what we want to do. we have prepared the guidelines. many thanks for the support here in doing that. and you have seen the ruling of the european court of justice (ecj); that was reassuring that the court fully confirmed the approach followed by the commission. but they also underlined that it is always needed to inform the member states and give them – and this is of course also rule of law – give them the opportunity to explain and to answer questions. that’s what we’ve done. we’ve sent a letter to hungary, with questions. they have answered, and we have carefully assessed the result of these questions. and our conclusion is: we have to move on to the next step. and therefore, commissioner hahn has today spoken to the hungarian authorities and informed them that we will now send the letter of formal notification to start the conditionality mechanism. as you know, this triggers a procedure that has specific timelines, so a process is going on now.
madam president, madam commission president, you already touched upon the fact that the war in ukraine has demonstrated how dependent russia is on fossil fuel imports from russia. it was to the question of philippe lamberts. at the same time, we are in a situation that inflation is reaching levels not seen for decades – i think it is eleven point something percent in my own member state. and our families and smes are already feeling the consequences of these incredibly high energy prices. how will the commission ensure, in this economic environment, that we couldn’t have foreseen, when fit for 55 was put on the table, that we will deliver on fit for 55 with the objectives that we have for 2030, 2050? will that be business as usual, as foreseen at the time of publication, or are adaptations maybe needed?
president of the commission. – rightly so, you were mentioning the high energy prices as really pressing families and businesses. what is the high energy price and high electricity price all about? as you know, rightly so i think, 20 years ago when we designed the common energy and electricity market, it was decided that, first of all, the renewables – at that time a small share – were pushed into the electricity market, then the other different kinds of energy would follow, and at the very end comes the most expensive energy source. but this most expensive energy source that comes into the market then is defining the price. this was well designed for a time where there were few renewables and lots of gas. today it’s different. if you look at the figures, they are very different in different member states, but overall there’s an enormous push forward for the renewables and they are cost efficient. once in place, the costs are tiny. then you have topics like the nuclear that is coming in, you have other energy sources and, in the very end, gas – not a big share anymore – is coming in and dominating the price. so, if there’s anything we have to do to relieve the families and the business sector, it is that we have to work on the gas price. there are two options. we have given a recommendation for short—term measures, a toolbox member states are using, but in the mid and long term, the one topic is to get rid of fossil fuels, and is also to get rid of gas. we have discussed that. the other topic is to look at the composition of the energy market. is it really still appropriate that it is dominated by the gas price, with all the consequences, or is it time to think of a new future model that is also fit for purpose with the new reality that we are all investing in and moving towards, as many renewables as possible? having said that, we will actually deliver on that in mid-may with a detailed plan, the so—called repowereu, on that. having said that, this is, implicitly of course, also advocating that fit for 55, with the goal to honour the european green deal and the climate law that we have concluded all together, is absolutely the right way to go. of course, it’s now in the hands of the parliament and of the council also to find the right balance. but the general direction must be to get rid of gas, get rid of fossil fuels and go into all the topics that you are dealing with in fit for 55.
very quickly, thank you for that reply and of course, that will bear fruit in the medium to long-term. but at the same time, i have vulnerable households in the netherlands, but also in germany, also in romania and all our member states, where families are putting the heating – even though it’s freezing outside – on 16 degrees because they can’t afford any more. and you promised a change that would leave nobody behind. and had you asked me at the time, i would have said that fit for 55 is challenging, in terms of legislation, in terms of technical issues and socially. i would at this moment say the biggest challenge is the social challenge and how can we together deliver on that promise of leaving nobody behind? we have the social climate fund. is it enough?
president of the commission. – so in the very, very short term, we’ve presented measures to the member states really to leave nobody behind. that is, for example, that you work on the retail price that you tax the windfall profits, profits that are without any question there. member states do that and we leave thus vulnerable households or small businesses. it is happening in the member states themselves. but you are right, in the mid-term this transition from fossil fuels into renewables has to be accompanied by a social climate fund. we have made proposals how to get there, how to fund it, and the principle is very simple. there are incomes that, of course, can afford to move easily into the new clean way to use energy. but there are households where it is impossible for them to do that. and these households need the support of all of us, and this is embedded in the social climate fund.
president of the commission. – both will be tabled before the summer. so here i can basically underline every word that you have said. i mean, the drama of the climate crisis is the so-called horizon. we all know that, because it seems to be so far away. it is not far away at all. but because it seems so far away, it is so difficult to keep the attention and the urgency high what that topic is concerned. it’s our responsibility to do that. it is our responsibility to tell people also the difference they can look forward with the european green deal with a successful fight against climate change, but also what might happen if we are not successful. and we all remember the last summer, for example, i don’t have to go into details anymore, where we got an idea what it means and it will happen again and again. the droughts, the floodings, the hurricanes. with all the catastrophes that are coming along, this will haunt us if we don’t move on fast and efficient. so you have my full support. as i said, both those topics that you’re mentioning will be tabled before the summer. and we all have to work very hard that besides the incredible impact that this war has on us, and that is besides the fact that it has taken, rightly so, all our attention and all our energy, we don’t lose focus on the huge crisis that is looming in the background, and that is the climate crisis.
president of the commission. – what is the last week of parliament in summer here? is that that week?
president of the commission. – before we go into summer break, it will be tabled. i cannot oversee the date in june, but before we go into summer break, it will be tabled.
i have to say, madam president, good afternoon, madame von der leyen. thank you for coming. president von der leyen, you yourself called your commission a geopolitical commission, which would promote the european way of life and seek to assume a stronger role for europe in the world. now, you said these were longstanding concerns of yours, which would inspire your presidency. in 2014, the european council adopted regulation 833, which prohibits the sale of dual goods to russia. these are goods or technology, we all know, which may be put to military use. now, according to various press reports in the brussels times and, oddly enough, also the deutsche welle, between 2015 and 2018, german companies exported electronic components, which appear to have found their way into russian drones, and there's talk of german sales of depleted uranium. during the relevant years, you were germany's defence minister. so my question to you is really quite simple. can you explain to us why these transactions were approved by the german economics ministry, which i believe is the agency that approves all arms exports if they're allowed? presumably this happened with the assent of your ministry, the ministry of defence.
president of the commission. – so the answer is very simple. if they are allowed, you said, if they are allowed it is abiding to the law. i cannot oversee the assumptions you have given in your question, but if they allowed, abiding to the law, the german government has taken the decision and the agency has then fulfilled.
i think council regulation 883 is quite clear. it says, i think in article 2, ‘it shall be prohibited to sell, supply, transfer or export, directly or indirectly, dual-use goods and technology and any items which may be intended, in their entirety or in part, for military use or for a military end-user’.
european commission. – so this proves that everything was done abiding to the law. and this concludes my answer.
president of the commission. – the central and eastern european countries and, mostly, their population are outstanding, impressive, and they are a shining example of how to receive the refugees from ukraine and therefore they have our full support. we have flexibilised and mobilised eur 17 billion that can now be used, for example, for health care, schooling, housing, support of ukrainian refugees. we know that sometimes the procedures are too long. therefore, we have accelerated within these eur 17 billion, eur 3.4 billion that can be disbursed immediately, and afterwards you can prove the billing and all the accounting that has to be done. so we are very impressed by the central and eastern european population, the way the population is dealing with our ukrainian friends and they have our full support, and this is a very clear message. that respect – i think it might be also necessary to say that, as you mentioned 2015 – it shows that war refugees always find protection in the european union. this is a core principle of the european union. and i have also not forgotten that in 2015 there were member states that protected the war refugees from syria at that time.
this is not strictly speaking a follow-up question but if the president wants to answer she may.
president of the commission. – we share the same approach to say it’s better to have a joint procurement because we have an enormous market power. let me give you one figure. if you look at the pipeline gas, we, the european union, are purchasing 75% of the global pipeline gas. so, if we act as 27, we are really powerful with a lot of purchasing power, and therefore i recommend to do that together. what the commission has already done is agree with the united states that, for this year, we get an additional 15 billion cubic metres of lng, which will replace the russian lng for this year, and, from next year on, we will have an additional 50 billion cubic metres of lng, which will already replace one third of the russian gas. so you see the commission is active.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me say first of all that my group has given a great deal of support to this question time. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i have a specific question to ask you, and it relates to a statement you made at the beginning of your term of office. you spoke in front of this house about more tax justice, and if i look at the balance sheet at this point, i have to say that very little has happened since then. effective taxation of digital companies has given way to the rather vague idea of global minimum taxation of multinational companies a set of rules that presents itself as hollow as a swiss cheese. the financial transaction tax we discussed has not been introduced no trace of it. it would provide us with 40 billion euros of additional own resources every year, including for the green deal. what also irritates me very much is that the european tax havens continue to be left alone and that there is no political effort at all to close these tax havens. in the light of the current military conflict, the war in ukraine and our attempts to impose targeted sanctions on the oligarchs who support this war, we can see how harmful this policy can be if tax havens are not closed, how difficult it is for us to access the money of those who support this war. my question is: when will the commission finally take action against this criminal money? when will the european tax havens finally be closed?
president of the commission. i would stress or agree with you that we must do everything we can to close these tax havens and, above all, to prevent criminal activity. i do not share your view of the overall development, of course, because i think we have made a huge step forward with the oecd agreement, with the global minimum tax. we have not yet completed it, but it is a huge step forward if we succeed, not only for the european union but also for all the others involved in this oecd decision. and so we were also right to say, ok, we're holding back our digital tax, which would have had a much smaller effect, as long as we can be sure that this broader, bigger and better concept of minimum taxation and taxation of large corporations -- there's a second pillar in that -- is going well. i would always argue - and you have said it yourself quite rightly - that taxation and tax evasion mean that we must act globally. it is not enough for us to move forward as the eu-27 alone, we must act globally. so i can only invite everyone to help make this oecd initiative a success.
i would like to do so, because i do not share these answers and i do not think they are satisfactory, because the global minimum tax rate is 15%, and for example, small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union have an average tax rate of 23%. so multinational corporations are being put in a better position than, say, the craft industry or the factories that keep our societies alive. if a tax rate similar to that for small and medium-sized enterprises were implemented, the tax revenue would be much higher. it is estimated at 460 billion. at 15 percent, the tax rate is only about 120 billion. so my question is: what do you think of additional own resources such as, for example, crisis profits taxes - that is, the taxation of excessive profits? what do you think about finally introducing an active withholding tax, i.e. taxing where economic activity takes place? what do you think about finally closing the tax loopholes and finally also blocking the flow of money to the european tax havens?
president of the commission. so closing tax loopholes is always an honourable task. i would be very happy if the big multinationals paid adequate taxes at all. that is the point to be reached in this oecd minimum tax. it would be a huge step forward - also in the european union. it is not that all is gold here, but it would be a huge step forward if we could do the same in the european union. and that's why i'm asking you to work for it. in principle, taxation is then a matter for the member states. but i think that if we can achieve a general minimum taxation, as has just been outlined, for everyone, including the large multinationals, it will be much easier for the member states. it is self-explanatory to allow for a significant reduction in the burden on small and mediumsized enterprises.
madam president, i say to president von der leyen: it is very good that you will be triggering the conditionality regulation on hungary. it’s a bit unfortunate that the door is closed when the horse has bolted. will you make the same mistake with poland, despite the fact that the polish government has no intention to even meet the conditions? we hear rumours that the commission is ready to approve the rrf plan and to release the funds. can you state here a very clear, simple and unambiguous ‘yes’ or ‘no’? will you or will you not travel to warsaw on 9 of april and approve the plans and free the way for the release of funds? would you agree with me that such a decision would be a slap in the face of the polish people standing up against autocracy? and would you agree with me that it would also mean reducing the rulings of the european court of justice to mere non-binding recommendations?
president of the commission. – so you put several questions into your question where you wanted a yes or no answer. this is impossible. i disagree with many of your hypothetical arguments, but i have to say yes, i will travel on 9 april to warsaw, but not to approve the rrp, but to do a global pledging for refugees in ukraine and outside ukraine, not only concerning our member states, but also a global pledging with the g20 minus one, for example, also a global pledging concerning all the private companies, not only european union, but also globally, to really support the refugees, not only in the european union, but also in ukraine. so therefore that's one part. now, on the other part of your question, which is not a yes or no answer, i was very clear in mid—july, i think it was here in the plenary that we discussed what are the conditions for the polish rrp. it's the long—standing requirement in the european semester: independence of the judiciary. and here we look at three reform requirements. the one is dismantling the disciplinary chamber. the second one is the reform of the disciplinary regime. and the third one is the process to reinstall the unlawfully dismissed judges. where does it come from? it is part of an ecj ruling, and with all the member states, we have always been very clear: there are reform requirements you have to fulfil. then there is the disbursement of the investment. you do not have to do everything 100%. we don’t ask any member state for the 100% pension reform or the 100% labour market reform, but long—standing major requirements of the european semester you have to do. these are the three requirements we want to see in the rrp fulfilled. how could it be fulfilled? the polish government has to bring a law through the parliament that fulfils these three criteria. we’re not there yet, just to make that clear. we are close, but we are not there yet. and when the criteria are fulfilled, when the law has passed the parliament, then we look at whether this law is fit for purpose to fulfil these three criteria i was just naming initially. if that is the case, so a milestone is reached, then a disbursement can start. this is the process. we’re not there yet. therefore, on 9 april, i am going to be in warsaw for the pledging.
of course, support to poland for the reception of refugees, that is not a debate. but what you’re saying is the that rule of law is non-negotiable, but we can negotiate on the way it is implemented. i have heard in recent weeks too much speculation about what that means in practice. madam president, three years ago you asked for our confidence. when there is so much speculation, there cannot be confidence. i would really ask you to be crystal clear about what it is, what the criteria are that the commission will apply. i think this house and the citizens of poland, the citizens of hungary, indeed the citizens of all the 27 member states, have a right to know exactly what the standards are.
president of the commission. – the standards are dismantling of the disciplinary chamber, reform of the disciplinary regime and a process to reinstall the unlawfully dismissed judges. this is the core of the ecj judgment, and actually a judgment where poland is paying a daily fine right now for not fulfilling this order of the ecj. so we’ve taken that as a very clear benchmark. we want this reform done. the best way to have this reform done is to have a law that has gone through the parliament where we can then look at whether it is fit for purpose and it fulfils the criteria. if not, the milestone is not fulfilled. if yes, the milestone is fulfilled and a disbursement for the european green deal, for the digitalisation, for the resilience, can start. we are not there yet, but i have described, as you wanted, the process.
i have to say, madam president, madam president, first of all, thank you very much for asking the questions. i believe that the last hour was a great moment for european parliamentary democracy. i was originally going to ask in the direction of mrs bischoff. but there's another subject that's been burning my clutches. you can see now that in this time of this cruel war, we need reliable partnerships in other democracies around the world. we are not making much progress on the trade agreements we were trying to conclude. there's been little progress lately. but we need it not only for the economy, prosperity and jobs, but also, and increasingly, to set our european standards in the world. we need them to bring like-minded democracies closer together, especially in the face of crises such as the one we are now experiencing. the commission is now planning to use this lull in the terrible war in ukraine as a new offensive to negotiate trade agreements with new zealand and australia and ratify the agreement with the mercosur countries.
mr president, mr high representative, i would like to thank you for your report. thank you for allowing us to speak to you so directly today. but it is really disheartening that the european union is only talking about resilience and capacity to act in the face of crises and now even war. we must admit that europe has not done its homework for a long time, including in the framework of nato, and many member states in particular have not done their homework. i'm not excluding germany - my home country - at all. and it was only now that the strategic compass could be properly aligned under this pressure. now we must put it into practice. and that is why i ask you, with a view to implementing the strategic compass, what measures will be taken to promote or facilitate access to private finance for the european security and defence industry. and how can the european investment bank be best involved?
thank you very much, but do i understand you correctly in thinking that you can do without additional private investment to meet this great challenge? because i didn't ask you to do any shopping. i did not ask for public money either, but i asked how we can provide the right incentives to support the security and defence industry in europe and equip ourselves accordingly. that means we're ordering, but the question is, do we really not need private capital? we are not going to be able to do that in the near future.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, on 21 august the world witnessed the result of 20 years of western intervention in afghanistan: the complete and immediate takeover of the country by the taliban, and a spectacular rollback of what little achievements had been made in favour of afghan women and the population in general. and here we are, the eu parliament once again virtue—signalling and being appalled by the way women are treated in afghanistan. but instead of clearly identifying the cause of this dehumanising treatment of afghan women, politicians like sawsan chebli deal afghan women yet another blow by insisting their systematic denial of human rights had nothing to do with islam and putting the blame on men in general. no, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why women in afghanistan are treated the way they are has everything to do with islam. for god’s sake, take a look around, there isn’t a single muslim country in the world in which women are not victimised by the so-called religion of peace. if you truly want to improve the situation of women – and could you please make sure i get to finish my speech, president , thank you – in afghanistan, call the devil by its name and stop using apologetic terms to downplay the true nature of the most despicable and horrific ideology women suffer from worldwide. but not only are you not doing this, you are now eager to establish the practiced gender apartheid of muslim countries right here in europe, while shamelessly claiming to call it tolerance, respect and diversity. you are concerned about the women in afghanistan? seriously, who are you trying to kid anymore!
madam president, high representative, all our eyes are on ukraine and all our hearts go out to the people there. the more grateful i am that we have this debate today because we must not forget about what is happening in afghanistan and especially what is happening to the women and girls there. the situation is terrible. they suffer and they starve. afghanistan now has the highest number of people in emergency food insecurity in the world. more than 3 million children – 3 million children – are at risk of death from malnutrition. and the ukraine crisis aggravates this situation even further with the food shortage that comes with it. and it’s especially the women that suffer under the taliban regime. they cannot work. they now cannot even go to secondary school. they are banned from public and restricted to their homes. the taliban deny them all their human rights. journalists, lawyers, activists, fighting for these women, are silenced with abuse and terror. the afghans have placed their hopes in the international community, in us, and we have a responsibility towards them, not only because of our prior involvement in afghanistan, but as europeans and as humans. and i want to mention especially afghan women lawyers and judges, 200, that i tried to help leave the country. it didn’t succeed in every case. to live up to this responsibility, we have to walk a fine line. we must help the afghan people quickly and efficiently without financing or legitimising the de facto taliban government. and we have to look further. we have to see that feminist foreign policy is not a ‘nice to have’. it is what we need. it is a new approach that is heavily needed, not only for afghanistan but for the world in foreign policy, in development policy. we know that where we foster, where we support women and girls, societies grow and become better.
madam president, it is now 8 months since the taliban takeover in afghanistan. girls are not going to school, activists are in hiding and families remain torn apart. everyone has the responsibility to change that, especially the taliban leadership; so this goes to you. in august, in your famous press conference, you promised to respect women’s rights and media freedom; but now, for 200 days, girls have been banned from going to school. this is self-sabotage on a national scale, and we all know that many of your daughters are actually going to schools and universities abroad. so why shouldn’t all afghan girls have the same rights as your daughters? why don’t you just allow them to go to school? and then, dear colleagues, it is also about our own responsibility. what happened to our promise to protect human rights defenders, activists and journalists? if this union can set up a clearing house and raise eur 1 billion to send weapons to ukraine – and don’t get me wrong, i am all for that – why can’t we do the same to evacuate those at high risk from afghanistan? why do we put the burden on the most vulnerable? why do we force ngos to run from member state to member state with lists, begging for attention, dealing with opaque processes with little to no success? civil disobedience on the ground in afghanistan is growing. the diaspora is getting organised. it is not too late for us to step up, to organise coordinated evacuation for those who need to leave, and to put in place a fund to support those who decide to stay. we all have a responsibility to afghan women and girls, and there is no withdrawal from that.
i have to say, madam president, we all have the images of afghan girls with tears in their eyes because they are no longer allowed to go to school. we hear reports of parents selling their children to feed the rest of the family. ninety-five percent do not have enough to eat, nine million are at risk of famine, and food shortages and the worldwide rise in wheat prices will exacerbate the situation. the people of afghanistan must not be left behind in the war in ukraine. unicef, who, the red cross and other organizations must be able to continue their work there with adequate resources. but it's not enough to ensure the physical survival of the people in afghanistan. young afghans in particular need a future that is human, and that includes education and training, equal participation in society, jobs. but that includes science. a whole generation of students, teachers, researchers is in danger of being lost because of the closure of unapproved courses, because women are not allowed to go to university. that is why we need the support of the european union for the newly established online afghan university, which makes studying, researching, and doctoral studies possible in exile, but hopefully also in afghanistan.
i have to say, madam president, the eu continues to do its utmost to force change for afghan women, even though our values-imperialism has clearly failed there. the few representatives of western values in kabul are not representative there. they are merely highly paid talking puppets and have nothing whatsoever to do with the afghan people. the fact is that the western system has not been able to gain a foothold there, despite 14 years of massive financial aid. a representative un poll from 2015 shows that 80 percent of afghan women surveyed believe that husbands beat them for reasons such as refusing sex, leaving the house without permission, burning food, or arguing with their husbands. with what arrogance, with what intolerance, with what cultural disregard and with what cultural incomprehension do western good men come forward, demanding the implementation of our value systems? even if, from our cultural background, afghan values seem archaic, backward and wrong, that does not give us the right to eliminate this mature form of society. that's not our job. stop dreaming about it! (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have two daughters that i have to think about when we talk about women and girls in afghanistan. and i find it unbearable that colleagues from the afd say from this podium that we have to accept that this is the way it is in afghan society that women are beaten, we should not raise our voices about it. but i want this parliament to rise up. i want us to say, no, we will not accept this, because we will not accept that women, that girls are deprived of their rights. ladies and gentlemen, women's rights are human rights, and they are inalienable, they apply everywhere and to everyone. and i think that we as the european parliament have a duty to stand up for human rights at all times, and therefore also for the rights of women, girls and women. and in afghanistan, women should have the opportunity, girls should have the opportunity to go to school. this feeling that they're learning, that they're moving forward, that they can evolve and so they can contribute to society, that's what we're here to stand for. and that is what i want this european union to stand for.
i have to say, madam president, when i think of the women and girls in afghanistan, of course, the suffering comes first. but i also think about the incredible strength of the women in afghanistan who have suffered so much and then take to the streets to protest against the injustice of the taliban, risking their lives. i think we all have those images in our minds. if the people in russia had that kind of courage, maybe the war in ukraine would be over by now. yes, we must stand up for women's rights in afghanistan, but we must not increase the pressure on the taliban on the backs of the people of afghanistan. it is not in the interests of women and girls to be deprived of their rights by the taliban and then starve to death. that is why we must also review sanctions and, for example, work towards the central bank being able to pay salaries again. so yes, we need better support on the ground, but we also need escape routes for people who can't stay there any longer. we are seeing these days what we can do as europe if we really care about the suffering of people. and i can only hope that afghanistan is important enough to us.
madam president, afghanistan quo vadis? what is the situation in afghanistan? where are you going? - i'm going. are women victims of the taliban? yes, because their lives have become hell. with the closure of schools for girls, the taliban have taken a step forward in violating women's rights, depriving them of their right to education and putting a damper on their future. with the arrival of the taliban, women were expelled from their jobs. the scourging of women has resumed. it is feared that forced marriages and other outdated customs will become the lot of millions of women and that female genital mutilation will be revived under the false guise of religion. afghans are living in a world of prohibitions. the right to education for all was one of the preconditions for support and recognition of the taliban regime. today, the dreams of an independent life have been shattered for millions of afghans. we have no right to remain silent. millions of women in afghanistan are asking for our support. let us show solidarity, take responsibility and demand that the taliban honour their commitments.
i have to say, madam president, a "crisis" is what beijing calls it. how telling and shocking! with these words, beijing is following moscow's propaganda with regard to ukraine. the war in ukraine it's not a crisis, it's a war. even a war against civilization. busha is a cruel time for crimes against humanity. and from beijing, ladies and gentlemen, we hear nothing. no conviction, no support for sanctions, no clear position on what to do. beijing still believes it can sit out russian atrocities. we must be clear that any chinese flirtation with moscow must have consequences. europe needs to get china where it hurts, and that's trade. if china wants to continue to trade with us, it must cut off its false friends as soon as possible. we must also free ourselves not only from dependence on russia but also from dependence on china. only a strong eu vis-à-vis china can prevent fatal forces from fleeing. because ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, must not become a blueprint for china's quest for power over taiwan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. autocracy versus democracy -- that's the conflict of our time. we must firmly oppose any attempt to replace our international order with the rule of the stronger. because we are seeing this brutal face of this conflict in ukraine right now. russia's war is turning ukraine into a battleground for democracy and freedom. the autocrats of this world fear and despise these values. and they support each other. because an autocrat doesn't pick the eye out of another. the eu must therefore finally stand together and stand up to china. it is intolerable that another eu-china summit should end in a vacuum. and yet, this relationship is burning at every turn. massive human rights violations, hong kong, taiwan, pressure on eu countries, unfair competition - the list is almost endless. i want an eu that does not just put values on display, but actually makes them the foundation of all its actions.
in writing. no, we don't share the same political values as china. i agree with you 100 percent. i just don't understand why it took you over 30 years to finally realize that. of course, china today is more self-confident than china was in the 1980s and 1990s. but china's political values have not changed in that time. but you've always preferred to close your eyes to it. china's understanding of human rights, china's approach to xinjiang, tibet, taiwan and, more recently, hong kong, and china's creative understanding of wto rules. of course, china will not criticize russia for the ukraine invasion, because the current crisis is too reminiscent of the potential scenario of a chinese invasion of taiwan. but you have largely ignored all this in recent decades in favour of short-term economic gains, not all of which have even been taxed in the eu. as much as i'm glad that you're finally recognizing that we need to do things differently with china, i'm worried about how long it's going to take you in other policy areas to recognize the reality there.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the eu therefore wants to promote the political education of its citizens. i'm afraid you're trying to indoctrinate the public politically. the task of elected representatives in a democracy is to implement the political will of the people and not to try to dictate to the people what will they have. nor is it our task to hold firmly to misguided policies which need to be better explained to the people, as former chancellor merkel once tried to justify her disastrous decisions - like a defiant child. politics must confine itself to presenting the various alternatives under discussion to the citizen objectively, so that he can then choose freely. but that's the problem. there can be no alternative to your brave new world agenda. it is this house that is constantly blaming countries such as hungary for its alleged hostility to democracy. and yet, viktor orbán, whom you so much hate, has just been re-elected by an overwhelming majority, and i wish to convey my warmest congratulations to him from this place, as i am sure you all have already done, don't you? so if anyone here has a glaring political lack of education, it is you, ladies and gentlemen. they have a disturbed relationship with concepts such as popular sovereignty and the state sovereignty of free, self-determined peoples, and they regard citizens as stupid, naughty children. here is a lesson: in a democracy, citizens are free, self-determined and competent decision-makers whose will you have to respect and implement. anything else would be dictatorship, and nobody wants that here, right?
madam president, over 300 massacred ukrainians lay in a mass grave in bucha. their murderers, russian soldiers did a sloppy job covering them with earth. limbs of victims still stick out from the soil. other bodies, with hands tied and a bullet in the forehead are scattered all around the destructed cities. in another town – irpin – russians shot down two girls and ran over their bodies with tanks repeatedly. near kyiv, russian soldiers killed a man and then raped his wife while their son sobbed next door. these indescribable acts of violence are not isolated events, but part of the systemic war crimes committed by putin’s regime. cluster bombs and destructed maternity hospitals were not the worst compared to the horrors committed by russian soldiers near kyiv. and this is only the tip of the iceberg. i’m horrified by what else we will uncover as the troops continue to retreat. the deliberate killings of civilians are no accident. it has an ideological basis deeply ingrained in russian society and propagated by putin himself. for the russian president and his supporters, ukrainians as a nation should not be allowed to exist. for them, ukrainians who disagree with that are nazis and needs to be eliminated. this, coupled with the brutality of russian soldiers that endure the dedovshchina and other abuses in the army is a deadly recipe for genocide. ukrainians have only one choice, either to stand up for themselves or die as a nation. we too have a choice. we either betray ukraine by watching frozen in fear, or we do everything possible to save this brave nation and also bolster our security. the correct choice should be obvious to everyone. as putin is preparing a strike from the east, ukrainians urgently need all kinds of defensive weapons. anyone delaying the delivery unintentionally becomes an accomplice of the war crimes. economic sanctions must escalate. we need to embargo russian oil, coal, nuclear and also russian gas. every cent going to putin’s bloody regime is a cent too much. we cannot bring back thousands of brutally murdered civilians in bucha, irpin or mariupol, but if we act immediately and decisively, we can save millions from the same horrific fate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this war is terrible, and those who are not touched by the images of bucha or mariupol are probably not touched by anything. this war must be ended as soon as possible. but we should not let these feelings overwhelm us. i understand the package of sanctions that have already been adopted here, but i am very concerned when i hear mr halicki or mrs szydło or mr gahler calling for a complete oil and gas embargo. that's easy for you to say, but then you should tell all your constituents what that means. it does not mean that you simply turn down the heating in your home by two degrees, but it means much more. there are now several studies in germany by experts who have calculated or who have thought about what a complete oil and gas embargo would actually mean. firstly, it would mean that the whole petrochemical industry in germany would immediately come to an end. but if the petrochemical industry fails, the plant building industry, the automobile industry and the consumer goods industry will also come to a standstill, nothing will be produced. and this is important: it is not only coming to a halt in germany, but it is also coming to a halt in many other european member states. that means that we are faced with several hundred thousand unemployed people immediately, and the supplier industry is going to hell. and what that means politically, you should all be looking at that very carefully. a severe recession is predicted, comparable to the 1929 recession. what this means for europe, if germany is no longer the engine of the economy, you should all be looking at this very carefully. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available to the member states are used to the full. so a total embargo on gas and oil is economic suicide. the embarrassment we are in is unfortunately the legacy of angela merkel. but i am in favour of tough sanctions, and i am in favour of all arms deliveries to ukraine to help the militants there. but we should be very careful: committing economic suicide to help ukraine is certainly the wrong way to go.
six motions for resolutions were tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 april 2022. the president of the commission written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european data governance (data governance act) (com (2020) 0767 c9-0377/2020 2020/0340 (cod)) (a9-0248/2021). i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. so you're welcome to come a little closer. after you have inserted your voting card into the voting machine, you can then apply for spontaneous word messages and blue cards via your voting machine. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be dealt with from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure.
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the lead rapporteur, mrs niebler, for the good and trusting cooperation. and this collaboration between industry experts on the one hand and civil rights and privacy advocates on the other is more necessary today than ever. because europe needs data for innovation, for research, for development. but europe also needs data protection. and that's the kind of spagat we tried with this bill. and i think we did quite well with that spaghetti. because we are creating the possibility for citizens to make their data available and at the same time to have the last word in the use of this data, to strengthen the bargaining position, for example through the data partnerships. we're enabling the use of data by anonymizing it, but at the same time we're saying, we want to prevent de-anonymization very badly. so data innovation on the one hand, but not beyond the gdpr, not beyond data protection. this is an ambition we should continue to work towards, for example, in the data law that is coming. and we have a lot to do. let's do this together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i wanted to start by thanking angelika niebler for the very constructive cooperation that we had on this file. it was very nice working with you and very fact-based. that was exemplary. i think today’s vote shows that we have actually advanced quite far in our digital policy. you will hear that my voice is still a bit deep because i have jetlag from coming back from the us and talking about data policy to the different stakeholders over there. i realised how close we are to the sweet spot of personal data protection and still enabling innovation at the same time. this is built on the fact that we had a european success with saying that there is a philosophical right of your own data being your own, in a sense, of having that right. now, we need to transfer that to the industrial data space. we also need to get to a situation where the usage rights for industrial data are equally clear. the data governance act is really helpful because it basically makes it possible to have neutral platforms and data intermediaries if you want data stock exchanges that you can trust and actually share and trade your data. and then, when we get to the data act, i think we have the obligation to ensure that basically we are now applying what we learned from gdpr to the industrial data space in clarifying who is able to trade co-generated data sets. the whole idea behind this is that we can really unlock the innovation potential that we have in our start—ups and that we have in our industries with a lot of very innovative and new concepts and new business models that, as the commissioner said, will create a lot of jobs.
madam president, fortunately data is not the new oil, because the planet really couldn’t support that. the ippc has just reminded us that we only have three years to drastically reduce our co2 emissions. data is a lot better. it is the new soil from which wonderful trees can grow. and that means data is the source for climate-friendly urban transport planning or breakthroughs in medical research, but also for very profitable business models. and this is why it is so important that we now establish rules to ensure that our non-personal data can be used for the common good and does not fall prey to a handful of dominant players, as is the case for personal data today. with the data governance act, we prevent data monopolies, making sure that service providers shall remain neutral and may not use the data for any other purpose, that intermediation services cannot be tied to other services, such as cloud storage or business analytics, and that public data can only be used exclusively for one year. let’s make sure that many beautiful trees can grow from this wonderful soil.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday, april 6, 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the global approach to research and innovation: europe's strategy for international cooperation in a changing world, by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000013/2022 b9-0011/22) (2021/3001 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, putin's aggressive war on ukraine makes the green transformation of european industry more urgent than ever. and this, of course, has implications for research and innovation, for the horizon europe work programme and for international cooperation. the shift away from fossil and nuclear energy towards a green industrial strategy is now, of course, also an urgent geopolitical task. we need to focus on new industrial production technologies, on the circular economy, on recycling technology, also to respond to the demand for critical raw materials. we now want to support the manufacture of semiconductors in europe with the european chip act, and the united states now wants to do the same with the us chip act. that is why we need forums for cooperation in research and innovation, such as the trade and technology council (ttc) with the explicit direct involvement of the european parliament, commissioner gabriel , especially to promote a competitive eu semiconductor industry. only in the best possible cooperation can we achieve the eu's strategic autonomy with a sustainable and competitive industrial policy.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday, april 6, 2022. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
i have to say, madam president, i ask for a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 157 of the rules of procedure. the s&d group admitted at a press briefing on friday that it had only put this issue on the agenda to discuss the french election campaign and, in particular, marine le pen. this is a clear breach of the house's usual practice of not interfering in current election battles. i therefore ask the bureau to ask anyone who mentions a person or a party in the french election campaign to withdraw their comments and not to allow this contribution to be published either in video or in writing.
i have to say, madam president, thank you very much, mr. gluckman. you said there were a lot of politicians paid by putin or even those who were his keynote speakers. i agree with you on that one. yes, that's right. i will mention a few: for example mélenchon, one of your french colleagues, or wolfgang schüssel of the övp, or of course gerhard schröder, the former german chancellor spd , together with matthias platzeck, one of the former prime ministers of brandenburg also spd , and of course manuela schwesig, the current prime minister of mecklenburg-western pomerania also spd . the three main lobbyists in germany for putin. no, not the three main lobbyists, one lobbyist i forgot. it was angela merkel who did everything to make germany dependent on russia for energy policy and who made sure that putin had the money that this house rightly wants to take away from him now. but we don't have to look that far. we can stay in the house. martin schirdewan made a fiery speech in december about the soviet union and, of course, about the successor state. so if you're looking for a putin friend, you can look in the front row here, because there's one sitting there. fortunately, even though i am a member of the afd, i have never been embarrassed to think that putin is a particularly fine person. politkovskaya, nemtsov, skripal, litvinenko, grossny, aleppo, kadyrov what is it that people need to see for themselves, so that they can see what putin is like? nevertheless, many politicians have made pilgrimages to moscow again and again. i think we should all remember that and let's all just talk a little bit. with the possible exception of the poles and many representatives of the baltic countries and a few others, there have been far too many, far too long, sympathizers of putin. until you admit that, this debate will remain hopelessly false.
madam president, the biggest friend of vladimir putin in the european council is viktor orbán. if you just look at who sent the first congratulations after the election, those came from putin, they came from salvini and they came from le pen – all putin’s friends, all supported by vladimir putin, because putin hates democracy and he hates that we work together in europe. so, of course, he supports everyone that works against the european union, that works against us europeans being strong together towards putin ... zwei sätze an die kolleginnen und kollegen, die die debatte so geframet haben, darüber, die unabhängigkeitsbewegung mit da reinzuschmeißen. nun können wir alle mit dem finger darauf zeigen, dass es auch bei den sozialdemokraten, auch bei den konservativen putin-versteher gibt und leute, die das lange unterstützt haben. aber ich glaube, wir sollten darüber nicht aus dem auge verlieren, wo die stärksten alliierten von wladimir putin sitzen. und das ist die extreme rechte. dank orbán sitzt putin im europäischen rat ja quasi mit am tisch. dank der fidesz-regierung hat putin direkten zugriff auf vertrauliche dokumente aus nato und eu. das kann doch einfach nicht wahr sein, und das muss unterbunden werden.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. putin hates democracy, and he's a democrat. he hates liberal, free societies, and he hates european cooperation. it is therefore self-evident that he is supporting precisely those forces in europe which are opposed to all these points. it is embarrassing enough who has been paid by putin in the past, even from established political forces in europe. it is bad enough that in the past appeasement of russia and putin was considered a tried and tested political tool, and those who have taken these positions should be ashamed of themselves. but whoever is still holding putin's hand is complicit in the deaths in ukraine. there are still plenty of left and right putin sympathizers in our parliaments, and they must be confronted. you're blaming nato for the murders in ukraine, and that's just harmful. all of them must be confronted, and it must be clear: whoever sows populism in europe will reap putinism.
i have to say, madam president, the european union is now almost unanimous in its fight against an aggressor from russia, against untold suffering in ukraine. a small minority do just the opposite. they blame ukraine, they play down the war and putin's crimes. in our country, this force of decomposition is the so-called afd. their deputies are constantly traveling to russia, waving russian flags in parliaments, they are traveling to the annexed crimea or to the separatist areas in eastern ukraine. they do not approach russia in the spirit of peace and democracy as others do. you're getting close to russia to undermine democracy here. that's the crucial point. unfortunately, it is not just the afd in this parliament and in the member states. in hungary, viktor orbán has been sending putin propaganda around the clock during the election campaign. in france, marine le pen is a politician who makes no secret of her contempt for democracy. that's why i'm saying this today. chers citoyens français, be aware that marine le pen is protected and financed by poutine. i am not saying that we should be in favour of the european parliament being elected, but that we should be in favour of the european parliament being elected.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think ms jourová has said this before , the previous debate about russia funding extremist parties in europe shows that it has an interest in destabilising europe. if we continue to weaken our values of democracy and the rule of law, it would play into putin's hands. it is therefore all the more important that we defend the eu's values - the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights - with all our strength, even in europe, as they are coming under increasing pressure. parliament has always made its position very clear. we also think that we need a sharper sword here to actually defend fundamental rights, to defend the rule of law. that is why, once again, the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, together with the constitutional committee, recently made a joint delegation visit to poland and once again took stock of the erosion of the rule of law. that is why all eyes are on you as commissioner. we have written two letters to mrs von der leyen, from the chairman of the committee, as well as a joint letter from the s&d group with the renew, greens/efa and left groups. our message is quite clear: do not approve the polish recovery programme with the reconstruction funds until the conditions are actually met independence of the judiciary and the requirements set by the european court of justice to ensure the independence of judges and the judiciary. and i can tell you from many of the conversations on the ground that polish civil society is putting its hopes in europe and we must not let them down on this issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will continue to defend these rights together.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. viktor orbán has won the parliamentary elections in hungary unquestionably. the eu's response: the initiation of article 7 proceedings against hungary for lack of rule of law. because, according to the commission, hungary is politicizing the judiciary, imposing transparency on western ngos, restricting media freedom and rampant corruption. in fact, hungary has more opposition media than germany, where politics also directly appoints all top officials, and ngos almost invariably pursue a globalist agenda. and berlin and brussels waste taxpayers' money a hundred times more recklessly than hungary. the hungarian courts are also far more legally and verbatim than the german or the ecj. with high growth, a healthy family and national spirit and stable demographics, but without the euro and mass migration, hungary is a successful conservative counter-model to stagflation and the de-europeanising eu. the real motive behind your concern for the rule of law is to discredit this model of success. if it were really a question of safeguarding democracy and the rule of law, it would be best if germany and the eu were no longer governed from brussels and berlin, but from budapest.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs vollath, i think you understand me. let me ask you a question: do you think that compulsory vaccination, as introduced in austria, is also a violation of fundamental rights? or do you think that such compulsory vaccinations are covered by the austrian constitution?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard the usual right-wing talk in this debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that's not what the rule of law mechanism is about. you don't like to talk about it. it is about money being misused, eu money being stolen. in poland, according to the eu anti-fraud office, four percent of all eu funds have been misused, or channeled through corrupt channels. this is a lot of millions of taxpayers' money. otherwise, you are always concerned about the most economical use of eu funds. when it comes to the money going to right-wing despots, you can't defend that passionately enough. because when it comes to european cooperation, you are always skeptical. when it comes to cooperation between right-wingers and despots in europe, european cooperation works very, very well. it only works better if you work with putin. that's the politics you're making here. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. there are no links between the current german government and putin. i have, by the way, already publicly criticised past connections, in particular those of chancellor gerhard schröder, on several occasions. and i didn't make any connection between poland and russia. but i find it interesting how you're turning the subject this way and pointing the finger. i expect that clear judgments by the european court of justice and clear reports by the european anti-fraud office will be dealt with. i just did that in my speech. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, you have misunderstood me. it may be that the translation did not work properly for you either. i did not say 4% in poland, but i said 4% in hungary. and this is data from olaf, the european union's anti-fraud office. i made that clear. the situation of the judiciary in poland is, of course, still problematic, as many judgments of the european court of justice have shown. and since we have included the independence of the judiciary as a part, as a criterion, of the rule of law mechanism, the lack of independence of the judiciary in poland naturally also endangers the proper use of eu funds.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. everyone has the right to apply for asylum - not to be granted asylum, by the way, but to apply for asylum. but some people are denied this right. this right exists regardless of the colour of one's skin or the religion one belongs to. and at a time when many refugees from ukraine are coming to us and many countries are also very openly welcoming these people - which i can only support and find good - but i would also like to say that the same right applies to people coming to us from other cultures. these people have a right to be treated humanely. it has to do with accommodation and due process. and there are clearly - and the commissioner has just said so, the unhcr has reported this - shortcomings in some member states. people are being pushed back at the border. they are denied the right to exercise their right to apply for asylum. and, ladies and gentlemen, that too is part of the rule of law, that you can make such a request. and part of the rule of law is that there is a process and the application is accepted or not. i believe that we need an independent monitoring mechanism in these countries, with the participation of non-governmental organisations, to check whether there are such refoulements, whether there are such pushbacks or whether international asylum law, the geneva convention on refugees and the european charter of fundamental rights are really being respected. and there are question marks in greece, poland, lithuania and croatia. and i expect member states to clarify this and to hold those who do not follow the rules to account.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr lópez aguilar, you said that i probably disagree with you, and you are right. you said it was scandalous that we were talking about pushbacks. i find it rather scandalous that germany has now taken in 20,000 people again - that's the wrong word, but they have definitely come to germany - about whom we really know nothing at all. we basically have the loss of control that we had in 2015/2016. and here we really have to ask: have we learned nothing from the bataclan attacks? there are also people who came through germany, who then just in paris committed these attacks. so this is not just a theoretical, an abstract danger, it's a real danger. and germany is currently in the same bad situation as in 2015/2016. i agree with you, mr. oetjen. of course, people must have the right to petition. that is part of the rule of law. but the rule of law also means that rejected asylum seekers will eventually leave the country. and as you know, we have about 300 000 rejected asylum seekers in germany at the moment who would have been obliged to leave by now. your party never says that. i mean, i find it a little difficult to talk about non-refoulement and all that when we have people in our state who have been abusing the asylum rules for years and continue to live in germany even though they have no right to do so.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. yeah, that's when i got warm. some in this house do not like to talk about pushbacks, especially not about pushbacks in greece. i do, because pushbacks happen every day. even as i speak, in greece and around the european union. and all pushbacks - definitely all pushbacks - are illegal because they actually violate eu and international law, because you don't have the opportunity to at least apply for asylum. whether it is actually granted is a completely different question. i'm talking about the coast guard in greece and their hunters on samos, who track down refugees and then put them on rubber boats -- no life jackets, no water, no food -- and push them off to turkey. i'm talking about the dead in the evros river. i'm talking about a policy that is inhuman and repugnant, which has resulted in thousands of refugees drowning every day for years in the mediterranean sea - women, men, children - and about the incident where, for example, refugees were forced to undress in front of border guards, and about a government that criminalizes ngos. that's what this is about. what i also want to talk about is the fear of the refugees of being caught and actually being imprisoned or being moved to nothing. frontex has witnessed many of these incidents. good helpers, accomplices and all the fine border guards don't care about these people's lives. what racism in the middle of europe! i would ask the commission to act and not just talk, because it is aware of all the incidents. i'm asking you to intervene. you're gonna have to sue me for breach of contract. establish an independent monitoring mechanism to monitor human rights. this suffering must end!
madam president, there are documented complaints from 2016 about frontex and governments, such as greece and hungary, about returns, but they remain, even today, unanswered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. frontex must be abolished. it is a transnational, military-police mechanism of the european union for the repression of refugees and migrants. it is a de facto challenge to the very sovereign right of each state to protect its own borders without foreign interference. it is a european union strategy, and not an exception, to crack down on networks of ngos at the borders, which are part of the problem, along with governments and the european union. it is the unacceptable separation of real, supposedly ukrainian, refugees and all the rest who experience repatriations, deportations, confinements in moravia and superstructure-prison. we express our solidarity with all, including refugees. all of them need human hospitality and human rights, because they are all victims of imperialist wars and interventions.
madam president, the european union has adopted a unique set of legislation on asylum policy. the protection rights deriving from our acquis are unprecedented in the world. and they go far beyond what the refugee convention and the human rights convention provide. none of the conventions contains the individual right to asylum – we have committed to that. so this acquis is worth protecting. it’s an expression of the humanity we base ourselves on. but it also needs to be implemented and it needs to be brought to life. in response to 2015, concrete and collective action was needed to end the undignified reception conditions, for example that the former greek government had been watching unfolding. and we did. the then new greek government, together with the commission, changed the reception conditions, aid was provided and at european level, finally, the ambitious new pact was proposed. can we do more? of course we can. first, it is now on us here in this house to proceed with the work on the pact, keeping up to the council, who is for the moment advancing faster than we are. second, in order to enforce these fundamental rights, consistent training measures, reporting obligations and monitoring is important. and these instruments are in place. our agencies are bound by those. national authorities are bound by those. greece and croatia have already come forward with their independent fundamental rights monitoring. and the fundamental rights officer last stated in the libe committee that there is a significant change of culture within the agency frontex. and thirdly, we all are also bound to the same extent by european and international law to protect our borders and to fight criminal networks that smuggle and exploit the most vulnerable ones. so it is indeed about enforcing and upholding the law at our external borders with every single aspect of it.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i travelled to greece recently and i saw – and have heard this before – that a systematic violation of the right to seek asylum in greece is happening. i will try to outline it to you. basically, since march 2020, no-one has been returned from greece to turkey, and that is turkey’s fault. but just a year later, the greek government still imposed a law, which is the inadmissibility procedure or joint ministerial decree, which basically says that everyone who comes through turkey, and who comes from afghanistan, syria, somalia, pakistan or bangladesh, has to be returned to turkey. but as i just explained, no one is being returned to turkey. so this was, from the beginning, absolutely trying to stop the right to seek asylum. and so we have a kafkaesque situation, where people are being told to go to police stations to be returned, to then ask turkey whether they would take them, and turkey doesn’t even answer this. then the people are being told: okay, you have to wait for a year. they don’t have access to food; they don’t have access to accommodation. we really have to stop this. i ask the commission to do something about this to guarantee the right of asylum in europe.
the commission has already taken action on this. mr president, i would like to know how you are going to distinguish between asylum seekers, whether they are genuine refugees or someone who has reasons to seek asylum, if you do not allow them to make a genuine statement so that you can examine their wishes. how will you know if he is a genuine asylum seeker if you do not allow him to apply?
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for all their remarks. as a general reaction, i reiterate our commitment to engage in dialogue about all alleged violations of the right to asylum with the member states concerned and call upon them to fully and credibly investigate allegations, establish the facts and take the necessary follow—up actions. more specifically, as i said, the commission is aware of the conclusions of the first investigation conducted by the greek national transparency authority. once we receive the report, we will analyse and decide on the appropriate way forward. since the beginning of august, the external border with belarus has been targeted by irregular migratory pressure orchestrated by the belarusian regime. the commission closely follows the situation and is aware that poland and lithuania introduced new legislation to respond to the instrumentalisation of migrants. we are in contact with poland and lithuania to ensure they comply with eu law. we are currently assessing the already notified provisions. should the commission conclude that the new legislation would be incompatible with eu legislation, it may decide to launch an infringement. what is crucial is to ensure that fundamental rights and the principle of non—refoulement are fully respected at eu external borders and even more in cases where frontex operations are deployed. together with the fundamental rights officers, the presence of frontex would become a guarantee that eu external borders are protected in a way fully compliant with fundamental rights. a suspension or termination of the operations of frontex is up to the executive director and should only be considered as a measure of last resort. in conclusion, i can only recall that the commission remains fully committed to ensure that the full respect of the right to asylum and the principle of non-refoulement apply equally to all people fleeing war and persecution. we look forward to working with the european parliament to ensure their enforcement.
this conversation is over.
the next item is the report by mrs sara skytedall, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the schengen evaluation mechanism (com (2021) 0278 c9-0349/2021 2021/0140 cns) (a9-0054/2022). i would remind you that you are still free to choose your seat in the chamber, except for the first two rows, which are reserved for group leaders. you can also apply for 'catch-the-eye' and 'blue card' speeches on request via your voting machine after you have put your voting card in the machine. i would also remind you that the floor in the chamber is still used for speeches from the chair in the centre of the chamber, with the exception of speeches on request, speeches with a blue card and speeches on the agenda.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this report. the schengen area is a key achievement of the eu, and it is most treasured by europeans. to preserve the area of free movement, we need to share responsibility. that is at the heart of what the european project is about, and what schengen is about. schengen evaluations are shared responsibly in practice, joint responsibility for keeping our borders safe. we know that the airports in our member states are not only the gate to a specific member state but the gate to europe. our borders are common borders, protected at zaventem airport, in the harbour of marseilles, and at the gibraltar border crossing. schengen evaluations help to protect these common eu borders. there are joint teams of experts from the commission and several member states, most recently visiting spain and sweden, visiting airports, harbours and other border crossings, asking concrete questions to find out what’s working and what isn’t. are cameras working? are border guards making systematic checks into databases? are they using the schengen information system in the right way? how do police exchange information? how many returns decisions were issued? and are data protection rules and visa policy being observed? thanks to past evaluations, based on recommendations, member states improved border checks, for instance, by increasing number of border guards and increasing training, using eu funds to buy more and better equipment to examine documents. following one evaluation, a member state vastly improved its entire national border management system with a new command and control set-up, unified training, and the human resources policy. still, we can do better, as ever. the commission has put forward a proposal for a revised schengen evaluation and monitoring system, with a more strategic approach, shorter and simpler procedures, full respect for fundamental rights. and your report shows that parliament and the commission agree to a large extent. i welcome the parliament’s stance and longstanding call to make unannounced visits truly unannounced. i thank the parliament for your support on the new decision—making process, leaving regular cases for the commission, so the council can focus on politically important or sensitive cases, on serious deficiencies or thematic evaluations. you know that the commission’s proposal was ambitious. we wanted the ability to carry out unannounced visits without any prior notice in most cases. the compromise reached in the council does not go this far, but it will allow us to organise unannounced visits without any notice; something which is not possible now, in particular in cases of allegations of serious violations of fundamental rights. and that’s important progress. the new schengen evaluation mechanism will do more than offer operational improvements. it will give a clear foundation for political decision—making, because it’s time we moved from administering schengen to governing schengen. take responsibility at the political level –parliament, the member states and the commission together – to give schengen strong political direction, with an annual political cycle, based on an annual state of schengen report. the first one will be presented by commissioner johansson in a few weeks, with the schengen barometer showing the pressure high or low at our borders, and the schengen scoreboard showing what’s going well and what can do better, to be discussed at the annual schengen forum, involving you, the parliament. because democratic accountability is essential, and at the new schengen council to ensure political follow-up. i thank you, and i look forward to this discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. when i was first allowed to start in this house three years ago, legislation was routine. evaluation was routine. with the onset of the pandemic, that changed dramatically. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. between citizens who just lost track of the situation. the effects of this have been felt particularly in our transfrontier regions, where europe has developed a very special cosmos, a special tangible quality. that is why it is good that we are stress-testing the schengen borders code. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and to the protection of the environment and the environment. i therefore warmly thank my colleague, sara skyttedal, for her important work on the evaluation mechanism. it makes schengen fit for the future and is an excellent starting point for the forthcoming packages, whether the schengen package or the proposals for the police cooperation code, for improved information exchange or for the modernisation of prüm. all of these are building blocks for a strong schengen and thus for greater internal security and external stability. in the end, the schengen area of open borders remains one of the european union's most important achievements. this is much more than a political flagship project, it is a fundamental right of all eu citizens. it is lived by the people of the eu. it is part of our european dna. this achievement must be cherished, it must be nurtured, it must be protected. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that we can talk today about the schengen evaluation mechanism. schengen is part of the identity of europeans. the freedom to travel, to be able to go to other countries without these internal border controls, is for many people the greatest achievement we have in the european union. this achievement, we must cherish and nurture. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. how these rules are controlled is what we are going to talk about today. and i support the report in its demands that if there are checks in the member states on how implementation is going, then of course they must be unannounced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if irregularities are detected, as they have been in the past, there must be a clear and short timetable for their elimination. ladies and gentlemen, if the member states do not put an end to these irregularities, then we naturally want to see an infringement procedure, because the functioning of the schengen mechanism must not be disturbed in any way. i would also like to take this opportunity to address the commission and say that too often today member states deviate from the standard rules in the schengen area, introduce border controls which are then perpetuated permanently. i would urge the commission to allow such exceptions for a short period of time and then to return to normalcy so that we can have freedom, freedom of movement in the european schengen area.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank sara skyttedal, our rapporteur, and also the others who have worked so efficiently and well on this report. i only have a minute, so i'm going to focus on a few things. this is primarily a question of fundamental rights. respect for fundamental rights at the borders is an integral part of the schengen acquis. but that hasn't been noticed much in recent years. there have been numerous, including systematic, violations of fundamental rights by eu member states at the external borders. many people seeking asylum in the eu are deprived of their rights and mistreated, and there is a lack of democratic control. the commission's proposal is therefore very welcome. there's more focus on fundamental rights at the borders, more cooperation with the fundamental rights agency, unannounced monitoring visits at the borders, to name just a few examples. this is important because we also know that borders are only protected if fundamental rights are protected at those borders. the central question is, of course, whether there are consequences for member states' breaches. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for this and hope that the content of our report will be put into practice.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report is indeed good, although i did not vote for it for various reasons, but it is really only for normal times. the problem is that we are not living in normal times, and schengen is basically mouse-dead. even the french presidential candidate valérie pécresse has said that the demands for open borders, as contained in the german coalition agreement, basically mean the end of schengen and must also lead to the return of internal border controls. we have just had the german foreign minister, mrs baerbock, say: 'yes, we must accept 10 million.' and mrs. faeser, the german minister of the interior, says that anyone from ukraine can come to germany, regardless of passport. this means that when a country like germany opens its borders to afghans, africans or anyone else who enters via ukraine, schengen is dead. so there's no use in evaluating, and that's why this is a bit very abstract what we're talking about here. it has nothing to do with reality.
a writer. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is a sign that we are watching, that we are closely following the russian government's conduct not only of a criminal war against ukraine but also of a campaign against the remnants of its own civil society. this resolution is a message, a message to the many artists, journalists and activists who come to us because they can no longer live safely in their homes. it is a message to the russian government that the fate of our sakharov prize winner navalny remains an important political concern for us. this resolution is a promise, a promise that we will always stand with the ukrainian people and with the small minority of russian citizens who are courageously opposing this war. with this resolution we are saying two things to our friends: 'the speaker is speaking a few words in a language which is not an official language of the eu' and 'slava ukrajini'!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. only 28% of roma children in the eu complete school. the reason for this is well known: the roma are discriminated against. and the solution is, again, to invest a lot of money, money for social workers, who are then supposed to solve these problems. i think that's naive and stupid. mr. pîslaru, i really appreciate you. you have reported on your visits to roma settlements in the czech republic and romania. i have also been to roma settlements in my home country - in gelsenkirchen, duisburg, essen, dortmund. there's no running water there either, because the sanitation has been torn out. and there's no electricity there, because even the power lines have been ripped out of the walls. and there were rats there, too, because the apartments were completely covered with mud. we are talking about apartments in germany which were in perfect order six months before the roma arrived and are now so-called junk properties. whole stretches of road have become junkyards in my home town in the ruhr, which has been attracting tens of thousands of sinti and roma. and i'll tell you the main income. the main sources of income are social fraud, prostitution, black labor, and robberies. it's all bitter, but unfortunately the reality. i look forward to your blue card. i am really glad, because we have seen the same problems in your country and in my country. the big question is, why is that? maybe you can answer that for me right now. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. and again, these are not the allegations about the conditions in gelsenkirchen, essen and duisburg that i have described. it's in the paper, it's the law enforcement. and our police say a lot about crime. so all of these are realities. this is really happening. and that has nothing to do with discrimination or racism. the causes are quite different, mr. pîslaru. the reasons are that there are criminal bosses out there, terrifyingly criminal bosses who ruthlessly exploit their own people. and we need to talk about it. we need to talk about these problems. the clan leaders themselves are exploiting their people! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure.)
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i like to get up, i like to follow the rules. the reality, the truth, can never be discriminatory and can never be racist. reality has to stay reality. and the only way we can solve problems is if we talk about them openly, if we're honest with each other. and the problem of the sinti and roma is their own structures and their own clan leaders, not us, the western civilized society.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the right to compensation of anna cavazzini, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-000010/2022 b9-0010/22) (2022/2515 ((rsp)).
author. – madam president, not even three years – that is the average amount of time we, as consumers, use a mobile phone. there is rare earth in the phone, silicon and plastics, 60 different kinds of metals dug in faraway mines and shipped around the world. some of them even come from russia, where we painfully feel now how bad such a dependency can be. all smart phones together in europe are responsible for 40 million tonnes of emissions each year. this is more than the carbon budget of latvia. yet most of us throw this precious device away after not even three years, and the result of this is 4 billion tonnes of electronic waste per year in the eu alone and the fastest growing waste stream in the world. this can no longer go on; the linear economy has to come to an end. we have to start thinking and producing in circles. after years of just talking about it and some cosmetic reforms, we finally need a true circular economy. last week, the european commission presented the ecodesign for sustainable products regulation. mandatory sustainability criteria for all products in the single market – this can be the end of the throwaway society. the digital product passport and better information for consumers will create transparency along the supply chains and improve consumer choice. future products made in the eu will be longer-lasting and recyclable, and innovative businesses will have new market chances. i highly welcome these overdue steps, and i think we really can come to a proper, sustainable single market with that. but it is not enough. if you have already tried to have your broken coffee machine repaired, you might have experienced that the shop does not take it back or the repair shop of your choice is not licensed to do it. it doesn’t have the spare parts, or the manual. and if you were lucky to find a repairer able to do it, it would be very costly and affect your legal guarantee. another example: a few months ago, a tiny plastic handle broke off from my fridge. i called the shop and the only option they offered me was to replace the entire fridge – the entire fridge because of a tiny little plastic device. we want to put an end to this. today, the european parliament demands a proper right to repair for consumers. we want to enable consumers to make a sustainable choice. we want to give consumers the right to choose to repair their products. we want to empower them to play their part in the green transition. and do you know what? seventy—nine percent of eu citizens want the right to repair. today the european parliament lives up to these expectations. there is a proper repair culture emerging all over europe, or should i say, re—emerging because the older generations know repair much better than i would probably do. for me, it is beautiful to see, when i visit repair shops all over germany that older retired citizens are showing young people how to repair electric devices or how hackerspaces collect old computers and make them fit again. in our resolution today, we ask the commission to present a right to repair for exactly all of those people, all of those eu citizens who want to repair. all actors in the repair sector and consumers must have access to spare parts, to manuals and to software updates at a reasonable cost. consumers must be able to recognise a product’s durability and repairability on easily readable labels while standing in the shop and wondering what to buy. consumers need more incentives under the sales of goods directive to actually choose repair over replacement and a longer legal guarantee for certain products. we also demand to take a look at enhanced producer liability because, in the end, producers must be responsible for the product. so, more sustainable products and more rights to consumers have to go hand in hand. consumers must become the driving force of the green transition of the sustainable single market. i thank all the colleagues in the imco committee very much for the very good cooperation and hope we have a strong majority today for our resolution.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 136 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 7 april 2022. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we can all agree that this is a central, important issue, and it cannot be looked at superficially, as if the covid crisis or the ukraine crisis were the reason why it has gone up so much. we have been laying the foundations for years that our children, that our society has lost its roots. we are cutting our own roots, we are destroying our own foundations, by, for example, trying to destroy our children's identity, which they know clearly in 99.99 percent of all cases - that they just know that one is a boy and the other is a girl. we leave them there helpless and stranded and with no plan for their lives, and then we wonder why they don't know if they're normal or not normal anymore. that is the real cause of our lostness, which we have here. we have, in a way, lost sight of our compass, lost sight of our goal. i would remind you that, for example, in the american declaration of independence, the pursuit of happiness is enshrined as an inalienable right. the pursuit of happiness - we do everything to avoid, to prevent this pursuit of happiness and to throw a stick between the legs of our children so that they are not able to really see clearly here who they are and what they want to achieve in their lives. we're basically robbing them of their goals. i think we need to go back to basics. we have to go back to what augustine, for example, said 1,700 years ago: we do not rest, our heart does not rest, unless it rests in you, o god. if we have lost our compass and our anchorage with the divine, then we need not be surprised that we no longer know how to proceed. we must teach our children this. we must return to that normal, to what is normal for each of us. with god's help and with the help of my wife, we raised four girls and six boys. they've all gone through puberty, too. they had their problems and their difficulties, but none of them had ever gotten into any major trouble. thank god for that. and thank god, we've been resilient enough through this covid crisis to survive all of that. however, we cannot simply dismiss the challenges. i'm also grateful for any help that people who are having problems get. but let's be clear: these mental health medical aids alone, they're not enough. we need a return to normal.
the minutes of this meeting shall be submitted to parliament for approval at the beginning of the next meeting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies named in them.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 7 april 2022.
dear colleagues, this european parliament mourns the loss of a president, a gentleman, a great european and a passionate believer in the power of politics to improve lives. lord henry plumb – for us, president plumb – passed away on 15 april. president plumb became a member of this house in 1979, the year of the first european elections. his commitment to europe translated into actions, and as a new generation of europeans, we continue to carry forward his legacy for a stronger european democracy. in 1987, spearheading the expansion of the powers of this house, lord plumb was the first president to address the european council. and a year later, president plumb awarded the first sakharov prize for freedom of thought to nelson mandela and to the russian political dissident anatoly marchenko. thirty-three years on, the fight for democracy and fundamental rights remains as real as ever. most notably, president plumb dedicated his whole life to safe and fair agriculture by strongly advocating for european food production. his work in this field serves as a model for our parliament as we strive to ensure stable feed and food policy with a war on our continent. for his commitment, his career and his achievements in this house, for all those who knew and loved him, for his children john and christine, colleagues, i would like to invite you to now observe a minute of silence. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
the minutes and the texts adopted at the sitting of 7 april are available. can i ask, dear colleagues, do you have any comments? no, that does not seem to be the case, and therefore the minutes are approved.
the ppe group, the verts/ale group and the non-attached members have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments between committees and delegations. those decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and shall take effect on the date of this announcement.
the pech, imco and libe committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of the rules of procedure. the reports, which constitute the mandates for the negotiations, are available on the plenary web page, and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, tuesday, 3 may at midnight, that the decisions to enter into negotiations be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament on the decisions to enter into negotiations is made within that deadline, the committees may then start the negotiations.
i was informed that no objections have been raised within the conference of committee chairs to the recommendation by the agri committee not to oppose a delegated act pursuant to rule 111(6) of the rules of procedure, and the recommendation is available on the plenary web page. if no objections are raised by a political group or members reaching at least the low threshold within 24 hours following this announcement, the recommendation shall be deemed to have been approved, otherwise it will be put to the vote.
since the adjournment of parliament’s session on 7 april, i have signed, together with the president of the council, three acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 79 of parliament’s rules of procedure. the titles of the acts will be published in the minutes of this sitting.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 28 april pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. first of all, i would like to inform you that i have received one request for urgent procedure from the envi committee pursuant to rule 163 on the following legislative file: transitional rules for the packaging and labelling of veterinary medicinal products. the vote on this request will be taken tomorrow. next, with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the final draft agenda. since the president of the european council will not be present in strasbourg, this item, scheduled as the first item in the afternoon of tuesday, will not take place. then on wednesday, the vote on the report by mr hansen on distortive foreign subsidies is brought forward to wednesday, and the debate on this report, scheduled for the afternoon, is removed from the agenda. the deadlines on this are: amendments or rejection, tuesday, 3 may at noon; split and separate votes: tuesday, 3 may at 19.00. we were also informed that the council cannot be present for the debate on the council and commission statements on the state of play of the eu-moldova cooperation taking place thursday morning, and therefore the debate is changed into a commission statement. if there are no objections, then this change is deemed approved. also for wednesday, the ppe group has asked that a commission statement on the call for the submission of a legislative proposal on a european lend-lease regulation be added as the second item on wednesday afternoon. the debate is to be wound up with a resolution to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to sven simon to move the request on behalf of the ppe group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, on behalf of the ppe, i would like to ask to put a new initiative on the agenda, a motion for a resolution calling for the submission of a legislative proposal on a european lend-lease regulation.
vice—president of the commission. – the elections to the european parliament are among the largest democratic exercises in the world, and reinforcing that democratic dimension is absolutely essential. citizens are directly represented at union level in the european parliament, and every citizen has the right to participate in the democratic life of the union. this is an important aspect of the legitimacy of the union and its decision—making process. whilst the commission has no direct, formal role to play in the special legislative procedure, the treaties provide for the reform of the european electoral act. it fully recognises the importance of the parliament’s proposal for this reform and supports its overall objectives. i want to thank the rapporteur, mr ruiz devesa for his work on the report, and for the constructive spirit it reflects. as i have said before, the commission stands ready to facilitate the process and to make available its legal and institutional expertise, research on electoral processes, and insight into inter—institutional relations. the president highlighted in her political guidelines that improvements to the lead candidate system, as well as the issue of transnational lists, should be addressed in the context of the conference on the future of europe. the conference has considered many aspects of european democracy, including the electoral law, and many of the issues that the parliament’s draft raises. the commission looks forward to the final conclusions of the conference, and stands ready to cooperate in the follow up. and i, myself, am ready to help advancing the negotiations on your proposal, should you so wish.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you, i would like to thank our rapporteur, domènec, i would like to thank guy verhofstadt for a very delicious red wine from his own vineyard, i would like to thank those colleagues who cannot support this file for a really challenging debate, and i am very happy that i didn’t lose friendships over this file. domènec said that this file is innovative and balanced. well, i would perhaps even go one step further: the law in front of us today is a historic draft. for over 45 years, no reform of european electoral law has succeeded. but in those 45 years, our union has changed dramatically. it has become a functioning single market, a currency union, a political union, and it is set to become a geopolitical project. but the increase in competences has not been met with a reform of the democratic legitimation of its institutions. citizens have no direct say on how to choose leading figures of the commission and the policies they stand for. the idea behind a european—wide constituency is to allow citizens to directly express a preference for a european political family with a second vote at the ballot. we want to spark a european public debate. colleagues, remember the situation in 2019, when everybody was so disappointed because we had the lead candidate, and in the end the european council proposed somebody who we didn’t campaign for. we want to put lead candidates on the ballot. with that move we won’t change the treaty, that is true. but we want to make european parties directly electable for voters. this is a historic chance and a window of opportunity. let’s use it now.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. this week we have a real opportunity as a parliament. we have the chance to write european history and to take the european project a step further. the vote on this eu right to vote is about some really central issues. do we have the courage here in the house to do more for europe? do we have the courage to hold genuinely european elections to the european parliament? because so far we have 27 european issues, very often national issues, which are dominating the election campaign. european parties play ask local citizens little role. but it also raises the question: do we want to give europeans a second vote in the elections, to really decide who and which leading candidate, which leading candidate, will become the president of the european commission after the elections? this is not a question of a top position, but of european policy being shaped centrally. at the conference on the future, which ended last weekend, the citizens gave us a very clear mandate on this issue: they want us to have a european right to vote, which is not just a european right in name. and that is why they have proposed and supported this future conference as one of the central demands that this voting right be changed. domènec ruiz devesa has done a really good job as rapporteur. he took the doubters with him. he tried. he talked to everyone, to everyone, to really develop a model where the little ones don't have to worry about being left out, where they think that only the big countries are represented, and together with the shadow reporters, they came up with a clever solution. but this is not just about transnational lists and top candidates. the commission is also proposing to make a number of changes to the proposal, including the introduction of a new gender equality clause. or when it comes to accessibility, we have to make a leap forward here too. that's why nothing above the knee was broken. they really took the time to come up with solutions. tomorrow we will vote on this. i look at all those who still have doubts or who say that i am a little afraid of such a solution. it is the third attempt in parliament to call for transnational lists, for clear rules for leading candidates, for more democracy in europe and for genuine europeanisation. let us have the courage to take this step together!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, 18 years ago today, 10 countries joined the european union in enlarging the ‘original club’. and i think what we have learned and seen over the last 20 years is that basically, the backroom deals between chancellors, prime ministers and presidents do not work anymore. and why is that? because they are too non—transparent, and they’re inefficient. and so what we need to do now in this mandate as well is to give a voice to european citizens. and this is exactly what the second vote does. it gives a second voice to citizens, allowing them to actually express what kind of europe they want. is it a more restrictive europe, a conservative europe, where migration is a bit curbed, where you have more money for small and medium-sized businesses, and money for europol? or is it a more social europe, where you have minimum wages and i don’t know what? or is it more liberal, or is it more bold, whatever kind of europe they want. so you dare more democracy, you don’t take a single thing away from citizens – you give them a vote. so don’t listen to those people who tell you it’s otherwise. don’t listen to those who say, ‘28 people, they are so far away from the citizens’. that’s not what this is about. it’s about bringing european parties closer to citizens; that they can, actually, for the first time in their lives, vote for them, say: i like this european programme, i like this european candidate, i like this european party, i want this. currently, they can’t. and so this is what this is about. don’t listen to the people who say, ‘oh, the small and medium—sized member states, they won’t have a voice’. this is not true. in the first place, if you look at europe, small and medium member states field the biggest and most prominent figures already. but it’s not only that. in the file, as verhofstadt also said, there are enough conditions in there to ensure that this is not the case. so don’t listen to them. this is really about all of us thinking, as a parliament, how can we ensure that we can make the step towards a european parliamentary democracy, how we can dare more democracy? and that’s why i would really ask you to vote in favour. there are other positive elements, we have heard about them. there’s voting age 16, and this is an indication which is positive. there’s a better gender representation with quotas and zipped lists, and there’s a lot more positive in there that is in regard to minimum standards. but there’s also one really negative element in there and i have to mention this. we introduce a threshold of 3.5% for germany, which, from my perspective, is really sad and bad. i have not heard a single sound argument why this is needed. there’s not a single sound argument out there, and it does take away five million votes from european citizens. that is as much as the smallest five member states together. i would still ask you to vote in favour, even though it reduces my likelihood of getting re—elected, because i think it’s so important that we give citizens a voice, and that we dare more democracy with the second vote.
blue-card speech. – paolo, there’s no animal like the eu, so you won’t find any comparisons in other systems. the second point, on bringing european citizens closer; you change nothing by just giving them a second vote. how can that bring citizens further away from the european union the first time they can actually vote for a european party that you’re part of? and third, on the spitzenkandidat, there is no system on this earth where the spitzenkandidat is actually registered in the law. so this is in germany – i don’t think in any other system – this is by practice, so why do you think that this is worse than, for example, the german system?
blue-card speech. – mr president, for the last two years, paolo rangel has argued against the transnational lists. but what i actually want to ask you is, what is your alternative? you campaigned for manfred weber, i suppose, in the last european election. he was dismissed in the council. and i guess most of your voters had no idea who he is, couldn’t vote for him. there wasn’t a single election poster for him in portugal. so how can this not be a good idea? and on that question of not giving a chance to small countries, there have been three presidents of the european commission from luxembourg. isn’t it time to also give larger countries a bit of a chance for commission presidency?
mr president, commission representatives, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. first, through transnational lists: henceforth we will not vote for familiar national parties in european elections, but for unknown eu parties. germans or dutchmen vote for portuguese or maltese, while greeks are represented by irish or finns. it's a situation like india after 1948. members of parliament speak english so that their constituents do not understand them; i'm just saying that indians consistently speak better english than many here globish. secondly, the fraud-prone postal voting system is now to be introduced throughout the eu. thirdly, the voting age should be lowered to 16. i know why, you mean they all voted hard left. but beware: eight days ago, marine le pen won the majority of the votes not only among workers and middle-class employees, but also among young people. fourth, all the ratings climb; but no one becomes a better member of parliament just because he, she, it is a woman or you cannot make up your mind. oh, it's all very obvious what i'm saying here. i wish i could be more original, but unfortunately, the truth isn't always interesting.
blue-card speech. – i wanted to ask, i mean, we’re elected today in two different constituencies. you’re elected in slovakia, i’m elected in germany. i could argue now that my constituency is slightly larger than the one that you were elected in and yet we have the exact same rights, powers, our vote counts exactly the same. so how do you think that members elected on a transnational list would be any different from that?
blue-card speech. – my question is in regard to the european parties. i mean, how many of your voters really know the epp? that’s my first question. and the second question is: if you don’t like the transnational list system, what is your idea of improving the european union? because we have already lost one member state, the united kingdom. we need to get more democratic. what’s your idea of improving the european union?
mr president, the reform of the european electoral law proposed by our colleague domènec ruiz devesa goes far beyond transnational lists, has many positive aspects and deserves our vote in favour. but not all proposals are so good as they might seem, and that’s the case of transnational lists. first, it would be an artificial democratic exercise to ask electors to choose between lists of foreign politicians that they simply do not know. secondly, in a single eu-wide constituency, the eligible seats will always stand to benefit those countries with more population to the prejudice of others, no matter what safeguard mechanisms we can invent. and, thirdly, it would be absolutely misleading to create the illusion of a direct election of the president of the commission, when we all know that the rules of the treaty of lisbon will remain in place, meaning that the president will be elected by secret ballot in this chamber and under proposal of the council. nevertheless, as i said, the proposal as many positive aspects and as a whole, it will deserve our support. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
question: do you personally believe that this law is legally binding? i cannot see the legality and i cannot see the binding legal basis. in the case of the top candidates, in one respect, this is far from enough. secondly, of course, the percentage clause was made specifically for germany. do you think it is democratic for the big parties to take over the seats of the small parties in order to gain even more influence? the transnational lists will also include the big parties, not the small parties. that means you are strengthening your position of power here in the european parliament. do you think this is the right way? or will you join me in saying no to what is before us?
mr president, if you break it down, what is democracy? well, it is candidates running for an election based on a programme. and us meps have been elected like that since 1979. but the european commission doesn’t have that link yet. in the last election, ten of the commissioners actually ran in the election, but ursula von der leyen was not on the ballot anywhere in europe. there were 420 names on the ballot that i voted on in germany, but ursula von der leyen wasn’t on it, even manfred weber wasn’t on it, because i live in a different state of germany than he does. and i, as an mep, am not just elected to blindly defend the interests of the people in my hometown or the germans that could vote for me. i’m here in this european parliament to make laws that are good for all europeans. so it’s more than the sum of the 27. and to those now that say, like paolo rangel, let’s elect the commission president directly, i think that’s a bad idea because it weakens this european parliament, this house that i’m a proud member of.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would have liked to have heard from the commissioner how legally binding the top candidate model is. because, to my knowledge, it is not legally binding to put it in the recitals, and therefore you can pull that tooth. this is a pack of frauds to the power of ten, and it serves only one interest: it serves only the interest of the power-building of the big parties, especially the german parties. this is of course a disgrace to the cdu, and i am very disappointed. the constitutional court has ruled that a 3% lock-in clause is not permissible twice. now they want to bend the law here and use this parliament to do so. this is a scandal. this is an absolute distortion of the law which is to take place in germany in order to undermine the federal constitutional court. we cannot and must not allow this, and therefore we can only vote against it as a whole. i can tell you quite frankly about transnational lists: the citizen wants to meet his candidates locally in the region and send them to parliament - so that they can agree here - and not elect any fictitious members. i thank you very much, but i am waiting for your answer, commissioner.
in writing. i am not sure what democracy is in the fact that a maltese is suddenly representing danish interests, or a cypriot belgian or a romanian german. i have had the experience that members are sufficiently busy here to identify the problems of the countries from which they come and to think about ways of solving them. what kind of superhuman do you have in mind, who suddenly knows all the eu member states intimately? besides, i'm fascinated by the possibility of identifying myself as a woman in the near future. once you decide to use your gender-friendly travel ban and every second candidate on the list in a future eu election has to be a woman, this will surely plunge me into a serious personal crisis, full of experiences of discrimination, at the end of which i will feel completely as a woman, inspired by the idea of carrying on this feeling and making the electorate and you, dear colleague, happy in a second term. no, democracy is when the elected representative is as close to the citizen as possible. whether a representative is male or female, a jacket is like a pair of pants. i am a simple worker with a good sense of common sense, and i think that quotas for certain occupational groups make much more sense. i'm trying to make sense of this.
mr president, dear colleagues, you might not be aware, but the abolition of democracy by the global elites continues. on 3 march, the eu commission was authorised by the council to renegotiate the treaty with the world health organisation on behalf of the member states. under the guise of improving global pandemic response, the plan is to allow the who to seize executive governance powers of the member states in the case of a pandemic. granting governance powers to a non-elected body is the exact opposite of democratic recourse and takes away any possibility for the people to hold officials accountable. this amounts to no less than disenfranchising the people. we, as elected representatives by the people for the people, must not allow this to happen. i am imploring you: do what you were elected to do. look into this and protect the rights of the people; the people you were elected by to act in their best interest. and to all the people in europe, i would like to say, start acting now, write to your meps, let them know you will not tolerate to be stripped of your rights to democratic recourse, let them know that any mep supporting this or voting for this will not ever get your vote again. you, the people... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission wants to bring millions of migrants back into the eu. the fact that we are supposed to need 1.75 million workers, but that we are officially over 13 million unemployed in the eu, shows quite clearly where the journey is going. the aim is to bring in workers from a so-called talent pool of countries such as bangladesh, pakistan, senegal or nigeria to establish a green digital economy here. and we've seen how well that works since 2015. i'm just saying, doctors, engineers, rocket scientists from syria. why is it always about migration? why is there no vocational promotion for citizens? training costs companies money, of course. it's easier to bring in migrants. it's also a great way to cut back on wages. the eu is thus becoming a pawn in the economy. i therefore call on the commission to stop these plans and instead to use the domestic potential.
mr president, last week the conference on the future of europe endorsed 325 recommendations for a sovereign eu federal state with new fiscal powers, joint eu armed forces, a permissive migration regime and transnational eu electoral lists, which mean people would vote for members of parliament who may not speak their own language. we are told the proposals are consensus-based – really? one political group, the ecr, left the conference because it was a farce. my own group expressed vehement opposition. eight days ago, marine le pen won the majority of votes amongst the under 50 year olds, workers in rural france, they need to be defeated by the metropolitan and financial elites and those who quit reason. there is no consensus. instead, we have a cultural war between an unholy alliance of globalists, their gatekeepers and the cultural marxist left versus traditional europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the end of democracy begins when politicians go after journalists. first, they discredit them as mainstream or liberal or western. next, they call them liars or fake news. then they try to stop their publications with strategic lawsuits. next, they cut their funding or take away their broadcasting licence and, eventually, some don’t shy away from physical attacks, intimidation or even murder. dear colleagues, this playbook has not only been used by putin or xi jinping. this is a playbook that is used right here inside the european union. autocrats build their empires on lies and corruption, and they’ll, of course, do everything to silence those that try to expose them. corruption is the reason that ján kuciak was murdered, corruption is the reason that daphne caruana galizia was murdered, corruption is the reason that klubrádió lost its broadcasting licence, and corruption is the reason why hungarian journalists are spied on with pegasus. it’s on all of us, as democrats, to protect journalists and free media. it’s on us to stand with them, even when they write things we might not like – which happens as a politician – because protecting free media and protecting journalists is about protecting our democracy. we need to join journalists in their fight against corruption. after 12 years and the near total control of fidesz over hungarian media, the european union finally needs to act. and let’s act on rule of law issues in poland before the last independent tv channel has to stop broadcasting because the end of autocrats is when democratic politicians stand with journalists.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. well, looking at the seats here, interest in journalism doesn't seem to be that high. i myself have worked in journalism for over 20 years. the paper i worked for was itself the target of numerous slapp lawsuits. i have seen our colleagues taken to their graves because they were shot in war zones, and these attacks were made deliberately to suppress journalism. but on journalism freedom day, we should also talk about the problems that journalism has. we all know how tremendously important it is for democracy and for informing the people. but it's also worth pointing out what's threatening journalism. and journalism is also threatened by the bills coming out of this house. when i read that they are trying to suppress hate speech and disinformation, but - i myself am in the home affairs committee - i have not been able to define what hate speech and disinformation should be in detail, then we are here on a very gradual track, on a gradual path that ends in censorship. because whoever has the power to say what disinformation is, can either shape journalism or strangle it. and when i see in committees that any criticism of gender or even of migration is immediately branded as disinformation, and when i see that commission president von der leyen calls criticism of her vaccine procurement disinformation - that's disinformation that was written in all western newspapers, so in the frankfurter allgemeine, in the spiegel, in the süddeutsche, in the english newspapers - then you really have to ask yourself whether the concept of disinformation is not the first step on the road to censorship. so, we should be very careful. i welcome, of course, the commission's attempt to at least try to cushion the financial problems of journalism a little. but that's a gradual way too. journalism that depends on government donations will not be independent in the long run. i can only warn you against going down that road. honestly, people have been thinking for over 20 years about how to put journalism back on a sound financial footing. this is not the way any of the many managers have thought of it, but certainly the wrong way is to do it through the government. this is another thing to think about on world press freedom day.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, executive vice—president, dear colleagues, first of all, i also want to thank you for the great collaboration. i think we had long hours trying to figure out what the best use of ai in europe is. but let me go one step back. when we hear ai, i think – and this is thanks to the movie industry – we often think of bots and of holograms of all of us, meps, of the executive vice—president to be just replaced by ai in this kind of futuristic scenario. but that’s not what ai really is about. in all seriousness, it’s about an objective function. it’s about probabilistic models, and very often our companies are still trying to grapple with what ai is about. so they’re making their way from a very analogue life to an ai—based business model. in this struggle, we see that we have some issues. for example, one is that there’s a strong tendency to market dominance, and that is just the case because you still need a lot of data to train your ai algorithms. i think europe is trying to find its way in this struggle, and we’ve seen that if you give too much market dominance, there can be abuses of that. we need to find ways to counter that. and we have seen that, for example, maybe in the chinese model, ai is used to control society. we have to also fight against that. so what can help us to make these steps correct? i think it’s crucial that we make our algorithmic function focus on human agency, and this has been said before. so we need to safeguard fundamental rights, but we also need to find markets concentration. that can be done if we enable our start—ups, our companies, to enter these markets so there’s no closed markets, and there’s no market dominance. i think this is a struggle that is worth fighting and that is also very much represented in the report. let us continue the struggle, in the data act and all other files that are still being discussed in the ai world, so that we create a european way of looking at ai and make it possible for our companies to thrive.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. artificial intelligence is seen by many, including myself, in many fields as a promise for a better future. but without clear rules, we risk a "back to the future" effect, like marty, the movie hero who in 1985 ambitiously starts his future machine and then lands in 1955. and that's what we're seeing today. for example, if you're using apple pay, the husband's credit limit is 20 times greater than his wife's credit limit, with the same credit rating and income. this has nothing to do with intelligence, innovation or progress, because this is artificial intelligence without smart rules, a technology that is based on data from the past and therefore does not carry us into the future by itself. and for it to really unleash its potential, we need clear rules, clear ex-ante rules against discrimination. that means high-quality datasets, mixed teams and, above all, verifiability. and that's why the ai act, the current regulation that's on the table, has to make a quantum leap for artificial intelligence. it is not enough to have a product certification or product safety regulation. what we need is a real law to implement fundamental rights in the age of artificial intelligence. and that can also be a competitive advantage for european companies, because the companies, the tech giants that are currently dominating the market, cannot do that. and what's also remarkable about this report is the recognition that the business of online advertising based on data profiles is the basis for the market dominance of the big tech companies - the same companies that we are currently regulating in the dsa and dma - in the area of artificial intelligence. and i would like the european union to provide the soil - because data is also the soil on which the digital economy thrives and grows - that it no longer sells this soil, but finally orders it itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the final report of the special committee sets out nothing less than a vision for artificial intelligence for europe. that's so important if we're gonna play in the premier tech league. we should not just be hyperventilating about worst-case scenarios, but we should be waking the whole of the eu up from its slumber. we must find our european way into the technological future, a way beyond the totalitarian surveillance state of china and the risky anything goes of a us market that is in many ways unregulated. the framework for the use of artificial intelligence must always be our fundamental rights. mass state surveillance or discrimination is unacceptable, especially if we want to make our european democracies weatherproof for the future. we will then be laying the foundations for the innovation continent of europe, and we will also be able to tap into the incredible potential of our society and open up to our companies whole new spaces for ideas: research into new medicines, the smart cities of tomorrow, a modern industry. the potential of ai is so vast that we can hardly imagine it today. the political backstop must therefore also be able - i would almost say - not to over-regulate what is already there and, above all, not to regulate to the point of failure what could be there tomorrow. because first of all, we need courage. more courage to see opportunities and to foster those that do arise, to not put stumbling blocks in the way of our developers, but to build stepping stones. i want the eu to become a world leader in innovation in the field of technology. the digital single market is needed for ai, as it is for many other technologies. if our citizens' rights are the cornerstone, then we will be giving the digital future the face of europe and democracy. i thank rapporteur voss and my group colleague andrus ansip for their work and our chairman, dragoș tudorache, for his leadership.
in writing. in 2021 alone, negative interest rates cost german households 160 billion euros. meanwhile, corrupt italian banksters are profiting from bonuses on their tltro loans from the ecb, and the highly indebted member states south of the alps and pyrenees are benefiting from the highest inflation in 30 years. according to official statistics from the european banking authority, the number of italian bankers earning more than €1 million per year increased by 16% in 2020, the highest increase in the eu as a whole. northern europeans who save and retire suffer and pay the bills, while mediterranean bankers drink champagne. all of this is the orchestrated work of mario draghi. first as president of the ecb and now as prime minister of italy. thanks to the generosity of german taxpayers, the italian village of cedi, with a population of 200, is to receive 200 million euros in ngeu funds. meanwhile, the germans have the lowest median wealth in the euro area, the lowest household ownership rate and one of the highest income tax rates in the eu. the german finance minister, christian lindner, has now opened the door to the creation of a european deposit guarantee. german savers will soon have to pay for the mismanagement of southern european banks. monetary union has become a transfer union. only the afd has repeatedly warned against this error.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, so here we are again speaking about the situation in poland and in hungary. and i do come across people who say, well why do we actually bother? i mean, it’s their countries, and what does that have to do with us if democracy and rule of law is declining in some member states? well, last debate that we just heard, with mario draghi, was called this is europe. and it’s all about that. it’s about the question, who are we as a european union? who do we want to be? and why do so many people all over the world actually look at us as a place where you can turn to when you are in need, in distress? that is because we have a very clear fundament of values. it is laid down in article 2 that all member states signed and it is worth having a look at it. what are the values in there? respect for human dignity. freedom. democracy. equality. rule of law. respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. and this is one of the things that some people really get wrong. they think they have obtained a majority in an election and then they can do whatever they want. democracy is exactly not that. democracy is exactly that, of course, as a majority you set the rules, but you have to respect the rights of those who are different to yourself, who think differently, who look differently, who believe differently, who live differently. that is exactly what the european union is all about. most of the member states adhere to those values and some don’t. and it’s not the people – i really want to make this clear – it’s not the people in poland and in hungary, who are at the moment doing such an excellent job welcoming these refugees, giving them shelter, it’s the governments. and it’s the governments that we really have to address at this point. in hungary, we haven’t seen fair elections for the last nine years – the osce said so. the media and the judiciary are under the control of the government. lgbti people are being deprived of their rights. corruption – i mean, look at hungary, corruption everywhere. in poland, the situation is different, but not less worrying. it has been seven years since the polish government abolished the independence of the judiciary, the constitutional tribunal, commissioner reynders talked about it, and it negates now the founding primacy of eu law. the facts are clearly established. we do not have to discuss any more about that. the european court of justice and the european court of human rights have found persistent violations, systematic violations on these rights and values. and this has to stop. not only we demand this, it is also the people of europe who demand this. in the conference on the future of europe this aspect is one of the most important ones; representing almost 450 million european citizens, they sent us a very clear message. they demand that we all ensure the protection of eu values as they are laid down in the treaties that i just quoted. and the eu has the means at its disposal. one of them being the article 7 procedure. article 7 sends a strong signal. it’s not only about protecting the people in poland and hungary, it’s about protecting all of us, protecting our internal values, our data, our individual rights, our taxpayers’ money also. and it is high time to do so to protect all of this. now, the commission and the parliament have sent their cases to the council and the council has to act. the french presidency has promised to protect the rule of law in the european union. where are they? where are they to protect the rule of law now that we discuss this very important topic? the european union will ask three things at least from the council. first, be transparent about the proceedings. the citizens have a right to know and they, in fact, demand this knowledge. second, follow up the pointless hearings with recommendations to the member states in question. and let me remind you, there is no unanimity necessary for this step. third, consider the facts that are already there. if you look at the commission’s letters to poland and hungary, under the rule of law conditionality regulation, the annual rule of law report, the rulings of the european court of justice, of the european court of human rights, the olaf reports, you will have it all on the table. today we send a strong message to the council. you, the council, the governments of the member states, you owe this to 450 million eu citizens and to the many more people who look at us because of our values, who fight and give their lives to defend just those same values.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a brief remark: after having had the opportunity to welcome the italian prime minister today, i would just like to point out to the house that we have many members of the bundestag and the german länder parliaments upstairs in the visitors' gallery today, whom we should welcome.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, we are not free in europe. we're stuck on putin's fossil drip, and we need to get away from that and go to wind and solar. now we have the opportunity with repowereu to do that - a little late, too - so the real question is: are you proposing something like a european solar act, similar to the chips act? there should be three things in there: firstly, will you propose a european solar obligation? every rooftop, wherever you can, needs to have a solar array. secondly, we need a lot more money for renewables. propose that we use the ets innovation fund to finance renewables! and third, we want to build this many solar plants in the next few years. it would be really stupid if we did not produce them here in europe. propose that we have an ipcei, a solar industry settlement project in europe! thank you very much, and have the courage to propose a european solar act!
thank you very much. that was still a bit vague. i think you said we will do whatever it takes to bring solar energy production back to europe so i hope that also means an ipci. but i have another question. currently, the commission is proposing to go to 40% renewable energy by 2030. our studies show that we can go to up to 57% and not be dependent on russian oil and gas. so are you proposing to increase the renewable energy share for europe for the year 2030?
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, dear kadri, thank you very much for this opportunity. my questions relate to the objectives of our european energy policy. the eu is highly dependent on imports, not only of fossil fuels but also of uranium. but among the eight scenarios modelled by the commission, there is not a single one that reflects 100% renewable energy, although such scenarios have already been modelled by other research institutions and several actors outside the commission. will the commission weaken its position on this? moreover, none of these scenarios illustrate how greater citizen participation in the energy transition could accelerate the process. will the commission give the member states a handbook so that the rights of european prosumers, active consumers, guaranteed by european law, are finally implemented in the member states? the deadline for this was already set in june last year. how will the commission proceed in this matter so that the citizens can also take an active part in opposing the war being waged by russia against ukraine?
so as a follow up, if i may. you are totally right. if we want smart, active consumers being part of the electricity market, we, of course, would need a smart meter rollout in order for them to be able to sell their energy. so this is maybe the follow up question because the smart meter rollout was also due to be completed already, but not every single member state has succeeded in doing so. so my question is when will the commission act on this and put a bit more pressure on member states to get going on the digitalisation of the energy sector?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what do you get when you ask randomly selected citizens about the future of the eu? there are some people on the far right of this house who always claim to represent the true will of the people and to know what they really want. who say at every opportunity that what we do here is not what people want out there. now we've been trying it out all last year. we have conducted europe's greatest experiment in democracy. we have selected and invited 800 citizens to be representatives of the green group and asked them what kind of policy they would like for the future of the eu. and what did it turn out to be? well, it now appears that the abolition of national vetoes, transnational lists in the european elections, that genuine european citizenship, that investment in europe's future and not in corrupt autocrats, that a more social, transparent europe is not some federalist conspiracy, but what the majority of citizens want. the citizens have voted in favour of the proposals on the table by 70, 80, 90%. and not only citizens, but also national parliamentarians, civil society, governments, have in the end end endorsed these proposals. it would be good if the right-wing hooters in particular would take this opportunity to throw their nationalist hate propaganda over the table and to represent what the majority of citizens really want. and governments must now also come clean. are they on the side of democracy and citizenship? because if these conclusions are not implemented now, if this is blocked by the governments, then europe is really being irreparably damaged. and it is precisely the most ambitious proposals that will now show whether this process is being taken seriously. so it is precisely the proposals that are not simply changed by legislation, but where we have to change the treaties. and that's why it's so essential that we go into the convention now, that we actually implement the most ambitious proposals in the next few months. it's the convent that's needed. it's for the citizens. it is for the future of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i wish very much that all members of parliament had had the opportunity to attend this conference on the future and to experience the citizens. they've bought together, and they've really shown joint ownership for their proposals. the ambassadors who appointed them also felt a commitment to these results. i hope that we, as a parliament, who have always been the real driving force behind this process, will take on the same responsibility and ownership, and become as good guardians of these proposals as the citizens themselves. it has been said here that there are many proposals in many policy areas. but now we can have discussions: whether you are for or against changes to the treaty; here in the house, we know roughly how that divides. if we take the proposals of the citizens seriously, then we must make changes to the treaties, because a large number of the proposals they have made require them. we can of course say now: "phew, after the conference everything will be different again, we are not taking this so seriously. but it would be a slap in the face to the citizens who put their trust in it. and i have to say this: if there is one thing that really excited me, it is that these citizens have not lost faith in the european project. they want change, they want to make europe better again, more capable, more democratic, more social. and that is why i think it is so important for us as a parliament to take this first step. we cannot ask the council to do that. they have delayed this process, trying to block it in some way so that this dynamic does not develop at all. we as a parliament will be sending this signal together on 9 may, that we are saying that taking the proposals seriously means also introducing treaty amendments, just as it means for the commission to take this into account in the next work programme. in this sense, a strong vote is also a strong signal.
blue-card speech. – i just have a very simple question. i was here on saturday and saw the conclusions, i also read the conclusions and my question is: why are you misrepresenting what’s in there, which is actually that we want to strengthen regional parliaments and that we want to strengthen cooperation between national and the european parliament? so there’s nothing about abolishment of the national regional parliaments, so why are you misrepresenting the results?
blue-card speech. – (start of speech off mic) if unanimity was democratic, then probably we should also do it here. what or why do we have a different voting system? but my extra question is, you have said that there has been no democratic process. i mean, we have invited, for the first time ever, 800 citizens of the european union. have you talked to them? have you discussed actually with them? because i have the feeling with all the proposals that you have made and that you’ve listed, you have never had the discussion with those people because otherwise it would be quite different. last part, there was a website with proposals where every citizen could propose something. none of the things that you have mentioned have been submitted to this website. maybe, just maybe, you don’t have any democratic backing for your proposals and that is the fact why this has been not discussed at the conference on the future of europe.
blue-card speech. – mr benifei, i was just wondering if you would ever run on a transnational list?
i have to say, madam president, the eu future conference calls for eu forces, the abolition of national vetoes and the concept of illegal migration. your transnational lists to alienate mps and voters from each other, you've already had them today. now this parliament is pushing for a new eu constitution after the first attempt failed 17 years ago in referendums in france and the netherlands. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. in fact, the eu still refuses to disclose the interests and names of its conference citizens. interestingly, my office found that many of the eu citizens who participate are members of eu ngos such as pulse of europe. secondly, the citizens of kantar, a long-standing eu service provider, were selected. the selection was random, but favoured self-selection, because the conference always began on thursdays when most people were working. thirdly, at the beginning of the conference, it was stated that citizens could also participate online via the digital conference platform. many critics of the eu did the same. that's why the platform content has been removed. the conference proposals ignore the platform users as well as the 450 million eu citizens, and they are based only on the 800 conference citizens, that is, 0.00018 percent of all eu citizens, or 1.8 millionths. the conference participants themselves were not to blame, however, because they were advised by selected pro-eu experts who explained to them what they should propose. if the citizens were skeptical, they were silenced. i was confirmed by some young citizens who spoke to me immediately after the conference. unfortunately, you couldn't say that publicly. you've got to understand, every critic gets in trouble here. it is no wonder that the conference proposals are exactly the same as those put forward by macron and merkel to ursula von der leyen almost three years ago. you're here talking about fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law, but you're restricting free speech and open debate. for 30 years, greater integration has led us to the economic abyss. you continue to do so against all experience and against all reason.
blue-card speech. – since you’ve mentioned me so clearly, i think a point of order is definitely due. i do not think that it’s right to call this honourable house, together with the colleagues from the national governments, together with the colleagues from the national parliaments, together with the commission, together with 800 randomly—selected citizens, ‘a house of clowns’ or something like this. i think this is not respectful to the house. and i’m questioning whether you actually have respect for the people that you represent.
blue-card speech. – actually, i think i will retract my blue—card because i don’t think i’m getting anywhere.
madam president, so the citizens have spoken and they have spoken very clearly. they want a more social, more sustainable, more democratic union. now, there are some in this house who don’t like the results and i understand your frustration. i understand your frustration that there were not as many homophobic, nationalist, chauvinist people within these 800 as you would maybe like to have seen there. but now you were drawing a picture of these people that is simply not correct – and those few of you who were there should know better. i’ll just give you one example. we had a very strongly discussing democracy working group, and we had a very prominent leader of this group who presented the results, who is the leader of the epp group. and these citizens said, no, we don’t feel our proposals are reflected in this, please, let’s do it again. so they were very confident. they were not at all kind of shying away of conflict with the big meps or national parliamentarians. they were very confident and they spoke out very clearly. and i actually wanted to give credit to my colleague, gunnar beck, which i don’t very often do, because he was there and he was confronted by the citizens – i think he got about four blue cards. colleague mara bizzotto was also there but she didn’t take any blue cards unfortunately; she didn’t confront herself to what they had to say. but mr beck did. so look it up on youtube and you see what happens to a far—right wing politician who gets confronted by normal citizens. it’s really extraordinary. so the result of this was not only an exercise for them, it was an exercise .... (the speaker was cut-off by the chair)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card speech)
blue-card speech. – thank you very much, madam vice—president. and to you, madam vice—president, and to the other vice—president in the front. the question is, you have mentioned the courage of the citizens during the conference. do you feel that this model is something for the future? do you feel that this is something that we could take up also maybe in the convention that we are discussing now as a follow—up for the conference on the future of europe?
blue-card reply. – thank you for the question. it also gives me the opportunity to say that there were also people with very different points of view, also someone who defended the russian aggression against ukraine, by the way. and yes, i absolutely think that this is something that we should carry on doing to listen to the citizens. with this kind of exercise or a different one. i don’t know exactly which format we should choose, but i am very convinced that it should be one where we come together, where it’s not only digital, but where we come together. because they gave us lessons too. i don’t know how many of you participated. they sent us a letter, by the way, saying, look, the way you discuss is odd. you come, you give your speech of a minute and then you disappear. and look, i mean, i addressed a few colleagues, none of them are there anymore. this is not how you make a debate. it’s not only that, you know, they contribute something from a content point of view. they can also, i think, make us better parliamentarians.
madam president, fellow europeans, earlier today, vladimir klitschko, who is the mayor of kiev, wrote that, for putin, ukraine is a provocation because it is a democracy. democracy is a provocation for some people. and we can also see this, sadly, in this chamber. so what do we have to do? we have to dare more democracy. that’s exactly what they fear. let us dare more democracy. i said this also on saturday at the conclusion and i say it now after we voted positively on the transnational list, we need to dare more democracy. if you look at the conclusions that all these citizens that actually dared more democracy came up with, you see that there’s a lot of very positive stuff in there: abolishing the veto, making the council more transparent, calling it a senate to make it a real second chamber, and giving more rights and powers to parliament, including the right of initiative, budgetary powers and so on. so we need to seriously follow up on this. i am very happy that from the constitution committee we already requested to trigger article 48, to trigger treaty change, and i hope that the countries will follow up, but i also hope that we can follow up on all the other ideas that don’t need treaty change. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – so i think it’s very good that you made the effort to go out there. and i think it’s also okay to have a different vision of how europe should go, which is a vision of where prime ministers and chancellors sit in backroom deals and battle all the deals out on how europe should work. i just believe that we should fight and i’m fighting for a europe, where you have a parliamentary democracy, where we can have these debates and where we can fill the government that can then be dis—elected if people don’t like it. i think this gives more voice to citizens also if they’re critical about different policies. but i’m having these conversations and i’m happy to see your study results as well.
blue-card speech. – madam president, my only question would be, if you think that listening to citizens is so important – and i totally agree, why did you not accept any – i think it was three or four blue cards – that citizens gave you in the conference plenary?
blue-card speech. – apparently it’s my democratic right to ask questions, so i will make use of that. i wanted to ask you, if you, as an italian running on a french list, believe there is something like a european identity?
blue-card speech. – madam president, thank you. mr castaldo, i have a question. you have mentioned that there are two possibilities to go forward with europe. one, with a closer union that will be in the geopolitical sphere, be stronger and have a voice, and the other one, which will be playing ball with the other bigger powers. however, i would like your position on these two possibilities on the internal matters – which one do you think will improve the life of the citizens in europe the best?
madam president, first of all, when i go to my constituency, yes, i agree. not all of the citizens tell me we want to get rid of unanimity. of course not. this is a highly technical question. the majority is just asking me: why is europe not doing anything on this? why don’t we solve the migration crisis? why aren’t we helping people on the borders? why aren’t we getting support for the low income regions? why aren’t we getting help for everybody to have the same pension and the same minimal income? and then i have to explain to them – and maybe that’s also a job for my colleagues as well – that there are a lot of proposals on the table, but they’re just not being voted on because there’s the rule of unanimity and that we need to get rid of it in order to be a more concrete european union. i think this has been the exercise that we did here. we asked citizens who were, some of them not at all involved in politics, to come here and make up their mind and propose ideas, what they think about the problems, where they see topics to be improved and everything. and then the outcome was, well, we need treaty change. one last sentence about this; i will make it brief. just because we have a convention doesn’t mean that everything that is proposed will come into law. i mean, the important thing is to bring people together and to talk about the society that we want to live in in the future. and that is what the convention is there for. and if we stop this process from the start, then i think our society has no future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card intervention)
blue-card reply. – yes, thank you. i think it’s an excellent question but also leads to the question of what we do exactly at the convention. i believe the power of democracy lies in compromises, lies in the fact that we don’t have referenda where we just have yes or no. and the same thing is true also for this question as regards unanimity. of course, i do see the point that smaller member states need representation and that they need a certain amount of power through the use of unanimity. however, at a certain point it gets ad absurdum and we are at the point where member states, and we have seen that multiple times, are trying to force their opinion upon everybody else as a minority, which is not what we want in a democracy and bundle up together decisions that have nothing to do with each other. so i think that we cannot continue with the prospect of unanimity, because it will not solve any problems, because every time your citizens say, for example, you say for your citizens, we want a stronger minimum wage. and then, i don’t know, maybe malta says, no, this is okay for us, but we want fishing rights here and there, and therefore we block everything on the question of? this is unfair. so i think what we can come up with in the convention is also a solution to that. so figure out what is the possible solution that gives the right to the smaller member states to be part of the discussion, but also that enables us to act. that is the strength that we need. democracies can act, but we are just too slow because we are having too much unanimity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not before war criminal putin began his brutal invasion of ukraine on february 24, ukrainian satellite communications were attacked by hacker groups. attacks on international airports, the finnish ministry of defence, and german wind farms: putin's terrible war of aggression has been going on online for years. it is the stated goal of putin-aligned hacker groups to attack our infrastructure and spread disinformation. modern warfare is also happening online. if our power grid goes down or security agencies are paralyzed, we become incapable of action. the truth is that it security is not a priority for public authorities and many companies. our critical infrastructure in the eu is extremely vulnerable. it's only a matter of time before cyberattacks cause us big problems. as the shadow rapporteur for the nis ii directive, i have repeatedly observed during the current negotiations that the member states are not prepared to take sufficient action. and i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for having just made it clear once again and also criticised the fact that, for example, public administrations should be excluded from the scope. we need better european information sharing on cyberattacks, binding security standards for critical infrastructure and private companies, and for systems such as smart homes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not with every technological advance in warfare, the force of destruction increases, and there is a threat of the decline of civilization. cyber war means that at the touch of a button, critical infrastructure, hospitals, etc., can be destroyed. you have to be able to protect yourself against that. but above all, it must be clear that these technologies cannot be used for warfare to prevent uncontrollable spirals of escalation. we are seeing in ukraine what escalation means instead of a policy of détente: a brutal war of aggression by russia, which is to be condemned, for which there is no acceptable justification, but the causes of which have not been eliminated in advance. yes, russia must get out of ukraine immediately. but it is now clear that nato is exploiting this disgusting war of aggression for its own geopolitical purposes, for example to arm the country massively or to prolong the war by supplying arms in order to raise the price of an imperial rival. it is and remains an internal imperial power struggle, waged at the expense of the blood of the ukrainians, but also on the backs of the peoples of the world. the risk of a wildfire continues to increase. the great politics choose war. but it's rarely the sons and daughters of the elite who bleed in these wars. i therefore say clearly: return to the table of diplomacy at last, so that no more people die and are displaced! stop this war! and that's only at the bargaining table.
mr president, before russian bombs fell on kyiv, odesa and mariupol, there were russian cyber-attacks on ukraine’s infrastructure. microsoft alone documented over 200 such attacks. in 2015, the russian military intelligence hacker group, sandworm, shut down critical infrastructure and triggered a power cut for thousands of ukrainians. the kremlin tried to repeat that trick two weeks ago but, thanks to the us, the attack could be prevented. in times of hybrid warfare, the eu faces a new threat. we cannot always rely on the help of our allies or on the incompetence of our adversary. as we phase out russian oil and gas, putin will only intensify cyber-attacks on our energy sector. the continent, europe, of prosperity and highly educated people has all the resources needed to bolster european defence against cyber-attacks. however, we also need more political will and leadership. it is time to grow cyber-capabilities at home and not to outsource the development of hardware and software abroad.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we look at the history of european internal politics, of the area of freedom, security and justice, we have come a long way and a short way at the same time. it is one of the youngest policy areas, deeply rooted in the sovereignty of the member states, and at the same time one with not only enormous potential for cooperation but also one in which the confidence of the member states among themselves is being raised to a new level, in which the confidence of citizens in the promise of security is the guiding principle of our action. and there are expectations, hopes, lessons, expectations about security, hope for protection from crime, from terrorism, from cybercrime, lessons from the right balance between privacy and security. because in the digital age, the threat landscape is changing rapidly. terrorist groups, criminal networks, they don't meet in dark backyards anymore. they communicate through encrypted channels. they commit crimes over the internet and finance their activities through international financial flows. with the mandate reform, we are giving europol the tools it needs to meet the growing demands effectively in the virtual world. thanks to the excellent work of my colleague javier zarzalejos, we have succeeded in significantly strengthening the agency, in underlining our commitment to combating criminal structures and in striking a good balance in terms of fundamental rights. europol is one of our flagships in the fight against crime, the dissemination of abusive information, organised crime, terrorism, money laundering and much more. does europol have all the tools it needs to do this? not from where i'm standing. but this week, a crucial, a hugely important instrument will be added.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe is moving on. finally, an oil embargo is within reach. we're finally moving beyond our comfort zone in the energy sector. we europeans must take this step. the european index finger alone will not stop the russian war of aggression. after the previous sanctions packages, after the decisions on arms deliveries, the oil embargo is the overdue geopolitical decision with which europe is living up to its responsibility, its weight, its possibilities. the european credibility on the side of ukraine against the russian aggressor has now acquired a new quality which i have sorely missed in recent times. but there's no such thing as free credibility. the energy embargo on europe will not pass without a trace. despite the transitional periods, consumer price shocks are expected, and industry will face supply shortages from portugal to poland. it's not going to be easy. replacement for russian oil - yes, but replacement is only available at higher prices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must also not forget that there are other regions, other continents, that cannot carry these things so easily, that do not have a comfort zone from which to move out. we must also keep an eye on these. we must not waver, we must not give in, and above all we must not be impressed in any way by putin's attempts to intimidate us. europe can do it, europe must do it now, if we do not want history to accuse us in the end of not being able to read the word 'war' in all its small print. we have spent far too much time on the terms of war and peace. it is the 70th day of the war; let us not get used to the horrors! ukraine all possible support she also fights for our freedom. let's put russia on a leash, and we'll do it now.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is working. it is the best, the most beautiful and the most valuable thing that europe has produced so far. i am a fervent european myself and i am convinced that the european union should spend much more money together rather than paying 27 times the surcharge. but precisely because i am a committed european, i think that we must also pay special attention to where we spend money and make sure that everything is running smoothly in eu spending. and unfortunately, there are a few things that need to be addressed openly and honestly. billions of euros that don't exactly go where they're supposed to. in the absence of any doubt, we do not know who exactly is receiving the eu money. and i'm sorry to say, millions of dollars are being stolen. three concrete examples: i shall start with the european parliament. the european parliament is one of the most modern parliaments in the world. we were able to digitize our work in a matter of weeks during the pandemic. we are a small parliament in relation to the 450 million europeans. and this is very important to me: we are very transparent - one of the most transparent parliaments in the world. and yet there is a line in our budget where we spend over 40 million euros every year without any accountability. each of us in this house receives a flat-rate allowance of 4 778 euros a month for office expenses, which is earmarked for parliamentary work, but without any control. and it's not too much to ask that these expenses for computers, cell phones, constituency offices be documented. and what is even more strange is that the plenary says it year after year, but the bureau simply ignores it. the second example is the european court of auditors. the court of auditors of the eu is a great institution. he watches over every single euro spent. and i think that it is impossible that the members of the court of auditors - and the president - should not set a very good example: private use of the car service, sub-letting the eu-funded apartment to their staff, business trips home or to events of the local cdu. it is right and important that we do something about it now, because the court of auditors is one of our firewalls against cheap anti-eu populism. and it is right to expect the court of auditors to spend eu money to the highest standards, rather than bending the rules to get as much money as possible. and the third part i want to do in english. on the european commission because, in terms of misspending, the problems we see at eca and at the parliament are of course peanuts to what happens at the commission, where billions of euros are going into defunct systems and we don't know where billions of euros are going. although the commission knows that some of the money is being stolen, defrauded or mismanaged, it continues. commissioner hahn, from the notification you just sent to hungary under the conditionality mechanism, between 2014 and 2020 there were serious deficiencies in the management and control system. they were systematic and not only insulated shortcomings. so why did you keep sending money? under the financial rules, the commons provisions regulation, you're obliged to stop this. i really think this is the biggest single danger for the european union. our way of spending money feeds corruption and the attacks on democracy of viktor orbán. our money has made babiš an eu-funded billionaire with a documented conflict of interest. this house has recently said, in sarvamann's report, that eu funds create oligarchic structures. this has to stop. that is why we, as greens, refuse to grant discharge until we stop funding corruption and autocrats in the european union, precisely because we are convinced pro-europeans.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this discharge was conducted under special circumstances. not only had we had the pandemic, but also, of course, the war in ukraine. despite these circumstances, year after year, the exercise on the commission discharge is more of a dialogue of the deaf rather than a constructive exchange, with a view to improve the oversight on legality and effectiveness of eu taxpayers’ money. the error rate is still above the 2% target. outstanding budgetary commitments continue to rise to a new record of more than eur 300 billion. yet not everything is in the numbers and percentages. key issues for us are transparency and the rule of law. we all have the right to know the list of the biggest beneficiaries for eu funds now. the commission needs to set up a system that will allow us and the eu citizens to see the complete list. who gets how much and how often? it is the only way how we can fight conflicts of interest, land grabbing, misuse of agri- and cohesion funds. the core of the eu is the rule of law, and it is the commissioner’s primary task to protect the rule of law, standards and norms. the commission was reluctant for way too long to use all its tools, but we cannot compromise on the very foundation of the eu. the first step against hungary must not become the fig leaf for inaction excuses, but a booster that will strongly demonstrate our willingness and determination to make sure that there is no money if there are no eu standards.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are talking today about the budgetary relief for the big five and the other eu institutions and agencies for 2020. but we are not talking about geopolitical issues and the pros and cons of pushbacks, and the abuse of the discharge debate for personal petty wars should be condemned by all of us. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. and there are 53 reports, so we have plenty of material for discussion. unfortunately, some colleagues are always shooting at a few institutions. this year, it seems to be the european court of auditors next to frontex. we are not ashamed to damage such an important facility, which is essential for the discharge procedure, without any need to do so. we are not ashamed of not countering the false impression that president lehne and his colleagues have committed a breach of the rules. that is not the case. if rules are not good or if they give the wrong impression, then they can be changed. the court of auditors is prepared to do so. but then to keep shooting at the people and undermining their authority, that's just lame. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we'll be dealing with eppo and other agencies even more in the future. thank you very much, mr lehne, for your important contribution. i apologize for the many misrepresentations, and i personally wish you well.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr. lehne, in your introduction, you said i lied. you said it was a lie that your apartment was funded by the eu. you receive a monthly residence allowance of eur 3 428.40. i've deduced that it's used to pay for your residence, your apartment in luxembourg. if i misunderstood something and it's used for something else, we can sort it out bilaterally. secondly, you asked which questions are still open and said that the court of auditors cannot identify which questions are still open. how does mr lehne explain the over-proportional amount of meetings with cdu politicians when on mission in dusseldorf? the court of auditors replied: not applicable. that's one of those questions. we also asked about the missions that the hr members have undertaken for the past years. we were told that for the last year it was on the website, before that it was on the website, now it would only be made available to the chairman and the rapporteur. and we were able to see the missions because of the google wayback machine, because they were just in the cache of the old ones at google. so you can see that, for example, in february 2019, you gave a speech at the ju-ag, the young union düsseldorf. the mission that was established was five days long. between 2018 and 2021, they were on mission in germany 26 times, 16 of them in düsseldorf. i also think that nrw is the most beautiful state in germany. but you've never been to any of the other state capitals - never to munich, never to stuttgart, never to hanover. and i wonder if it is because of the high level of interest of the people of düsseldorf in the court of auditors that you always go to düsseldorf, or if it is because of your interest in going to düsseldorf. these are the questions we have to answer.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended at 1.26 p.m.)
mr president, the pegasus scandal has finally reached the european union. we have seen at least one commissioner and his staff members being spied on. we have seen five members of the european parliament of this house being infected. this is an attack on eu institutions and it’s an attack on our parliamentary immunity. mr commissioner, if you say it’s member states in charge, would you mind telling me which member state is actually in charge of investigating this and protecting us from these attacks? i have to admit that i was expecting quite some outcry about what happened. but what do we have? the commission is here with neither the commissioner attacked nor the commissioner in charge. the council? they don’t even bother showing up. and, here in the parliament, it was only the greens and gue who requested this debate. maybe this is because nearly all political groups have their own skeletons in the cupboard, with revelations coming in from hungary, poland, spain and greece. but, dear colleagues, these days we are at a crossroads. either we remain silent and we continue ‘business as usual’ because everyone somehow has their problems and we just accept that, from now on, everyone, even in europe, will be spied on, or we finally, and collectively, acknowledge that things are spiralling out of control – and spain is just the best example to show this – and we start exposing this and stop it. i really want us to go down this second road because, just imagine for one minute, that it were your worst political enemy at the disposal and in the possession of these tools, spying on lawyers, on journalists, maybe even on you. zemmour in france, afd in germany, vox in spain – this list can continue for quite a bit. would that not provoke the kind of outcry that at least i have been waiting for for the last two or three weeks? i don’t think we should wait for this to happen, but take a very principled stand, altogether across political groups, commission and council. now.
(the president's speech begins with the microphone off) ... spend more time on this device than they do with their partner or their children. it's right on your body, in your purse. some even take it to the bathroom. pegasus and other spyware make this device a spy in your pocket. camera on, microphone on, all the data can be pulled and more. so it's clearly an attack on the privacy of potentially every one of us. it affects journalists, politicians, priests, many people who use this device professionally and who either have professional secrets or, like us, have to work in confidence. and that's why this software is not only an attack on every person affected by it, but also an attack on democracy, on the rule of law, on the separation of powers. and that is why we owe it to all those affected, but above all to democracy and the rule of law, to be informed. and that is why we must fight for it - as members of parliament, but also, please, as the commission and above all, the member states and the council.
author. – mr president, what did osman kavala do? he lived his life of a free man. he dedicated his work to promoting culture, civil rights, diversity – no more than that. what did the architect mücella yapıcı do? what did the lawyer can atalay do? and the city planner tayfun kahraman? and director of the boğaziçi european school of politics, ali hakan altınay, a good friend? and what about the founder of istanbul bilgi university, yiğit ali ekmekçi? film producer çiğdem mater utku? documentarist mine özerden? all of them lived their normal lives, worked their normal jobs, even if fascinating. and now, the seven have been sentenced to 18 years of imprisonment immediately, on the spot. why? we seem to live in the age of asking ‘why?’ in many areas of the world. and here, we ask also, why did the turkish government decide not only to keep kavala in prison, but to sentence him to lifelong jail without parole? why a philanthropist? why did the turkish government decide to do so and risk our bilateral relationship – a relationship that we were trying to put on a better track because we, both sides, need it now more than ever? osman kavala’s case stands for the arbitrariness of the judicial and political system in turkey. we knew about its flaws, but we hoped that, through dialogue, we would be able to change our relationship for the better. well, unfortunately, this ruling was another crude awakening. and that’s why i don’t address the turkish government in this speech; i address kavala, i address his wife, ayşe, and his seven comrades who were also jailed. and i’m telling them very firmly: we will continue to stand on your side and fight for your freedom.
a writer. the commission is not osman kavala is the co-founder of george soros' open society foundation, and therefore, to me, an enemy of any open, free society. but that must not mean that he is sentenced to life imprisonment for unsubstantiated allegations. this purely politically motivated procedure once again demonstrates erdoğan's contempt for all rule of law standards. the consequences for turkey from the eu will always be the same: we express our displeasure, we point out the lack of human and fundamental rights in turkey. that's it. the case would be an excellent opportunity to establish long overdue facts: turkey under erdoğan has lost nothing in the eu. yet the eu has been subsidizing the despot for years with billions, thus feeding off his failure in economic policy. the european union must not allow the turkish people to be forced to accept the fact that they are not a part of the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. life for kavala, which means life for the gezi protests. the kavala verdict is arbitrary, as are the sentences against demirtaş and other political prisoners. but it's not surprising. because polarization and repression are the means of maintaining power. asked whether the verdict will have an aftermath in the human rights court, erdoğan replied confidently: the case is over. but one thing we should all be clear about: the positive agenda created by the eu for its own geopolitical interests and the entanglement of the erdoğan regime by nato in the conflict with russia gives the regime support. it is exploiting this by means of repression at home, but also by bombing the kurds in syria and iraq. the eu is silent on this. i say clearly to the heads of state and to the eu: you must decide. either you change your policies, you take action, or you stop squaring off on values. because the double standards are now unmistakable.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 5 may 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next debate will be on the reports on the continuing forced organ harvesting in china (2022/2657 (rsp)) (b9-0248/2022, b90249/2022, b90250/2022, b90251/2022, b90252/2022, b90253/2022, b90254/2022).
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as if all is not bad enough, today we have to discuss a really bad topic, and that is the organ trafficking, or the forced removal of organs from people living in china. in china, there are people of the first and second classes. how many classes? i don't want to know. the chinese dictatorship has made it its mission to better represent the people of the first class, so to speak, and to forcibly remove organs from the people of other classes. the uighurs, who are already suffering from the genocide, are the first to suffer. the signs are growing, and there is already evidence that there is international tourism to china. people from all over the world, coming to china for cheap organ transplants. we need to talk about that here today and we need to make it very clear that this cannot be the world of values in which we want to live. and here we have to make it clear to china, so to speak, that this cannot go on.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 5 may 2022.
the next debate will be on the continuing massive crackdown on the political opposition in cambodia (2022/2658 (rsp)) (b9-0226/2022, b9-0230/2022, b9-0231/2022, b9-0234/2022, b9-0236/2022, b9-0247/2022). the debate will be closed with a debate on the situation in cambodia, which is currently under threat.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, the hun sen regime has dismantled democracy in cambodia, with the opposition in exile or in prison, and now they’re cracking down on freedom of speech with the chinese model of censorship of the internet. but the flame of democracy can never be stamped out. democracy in cambodia can be restored. the opposition and civil society are not giving up. they’re running in june’s local elections. the eu and the commission need to closely monitor these elections. let the warning to hun sen be loud and clear: if these elections will be unfair, the eu will not look away. if these elections are stolen, it will be more than overdue that the commission is getting ready for a full withdrawal of the eba. the preferential access to our single market is meant to help less fortunate communities to build a better life. it is not meant to help regimes that do not respect human rights. every day the hun sen regime benefits from this is one day too long. the way back to democracy won’t be easy. but the people of cambodia deserve our support because the great conflict of our time is autocracy versus democracy. the autocrats of this world are united in their fight against freedom and democracy. that is why the eu must always, always stand by those fighting for our values. thank you, and thank you to our freedom fighters from cambodia here tonight.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 5 may 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the threats to stability, security and democracy in west africa and the sahel (2022/2650 ((rsp)).
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. since the fall of the gaddafi regime in libya in 2011, the situation in the sahel region has been highly unstable, as mr gahler has just pointed out. because as a result, weapons are circulating, mercenaries are getting into different countries, organized crime is spreading. as of 2012, thousands of troops and peacekeepers have been deployed in the region in various international missions. and i take this opportunity to thank all the soldiers who did this, and to remember those who have fallen, and to think of their families. the missions were launched because security issues in the sahel region have a direct impact and a direct link with security in the european neighbourhood, the maghreb, but also the coastal states in the gulf of guinea. we are concerned about the region today because, after several military coups - it has just been mentioned - in mali, in burkina faso, but also last year, the situation is more precarious than ever and terrorism and organized crime are at their peak. of course, the missions we sent out also had successes in fighting the jihadist terrorists. but we must acknowledge that the strategy we have followed so far does not seem to have led to any lasting and long-term success. so i think we have to ask ourselves: what do we really need to change? what do we have to do differently? and what you have mentioned, madam commissioner, is certainly all correct. but isn't it just more of the same? should we not perhaps think about how we can do better than we have done so far to strengthen the democracies in the region, how we can do better to strengthen the international organizations that are there? i believe in multilateralism, and i believe that we can only work multilaterally. but how can we better support ecowas? i believe that we need to reconsider our own strategy in a self-critical way and that we need to do this in dialogue with our african partners. the food crisis will come and will further destabilize the region. and i think we need to hear what our partners expect from us and where we can help, and we need to define for ourselves what our conditions are for being able to deliver that help.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, in recent months we have witnessed worrying political developments in west africa and the sahel countries. indeed, several countries have effectively fallen under military control, which should lead us to reflect deeply on our approach to peace and conflict resolution. we are very concerned about the security situation in west africa and the sahel region. we have already discussed all these problems at the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly at the beginning of april, so that we can get out of the current crisis. in this context, it is therefore important to recall that democratic governance depends on the respect of the constitution by the ruling executive and free multiparty elections, while the citizens of west africa and the sahel support democracy and seek equal participation in the democratic process. it is therefore absolutely necessary to understand and reflect on the complexity of the conflicts in this region and to consider carefully how we can mitigate the situation, including, if necessary, also denouncing crimes committed by both the military of the country concerned and by foreign military forces whose main task is to help maintain peace in these regions. the sahel countries need coordination between security, climate and development policies, and this is one of the major challenges facing these countries. our response must be a comprehensive approach and address the great complexity of conflicts and the links between poverty, lack of access to basic social services, climate change, terrorism, intercommunal violence, food security and gender-based violence and displacement.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. competition law is directed against distortions of competition, including subsidies. but now they are going to subsidize climate change and the green transition without any basis in the eu treaties. because the green transformation goes far beyond environmental protection. two economies are being created, a government and ecb-subsidized, regulatory and interest-rate-friendly green economy and a conventional industry that is strictly regulated so that investors invest green. but what if the rest of the world doesn't join in the climate rescue? with a share of around 7% of global co2 emissions, the eu's climate impact is zero. the result is that we are dismantling our best industries, where we are still competitive. employment and income are falling, while migration is rising and prices are exploding - to the benefit of no one but your green financial jugglers and windmill barons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this report expressly welcomes aid to accelerate the phase-out of coal. coal, the black gold, the source or rather the roots of the eu and the source of our prosperity, is for this parliament nothing but black dirt and the great climate killer. i see it quite differently: we need secure energy. we need affordable energy. and the crisis we are in has shown how vulnerable we are, how vulnerable we are to external influences, for example, russian gas, if we simultaneously abandon coal and nuclear power. we cannot continue this madness. we don't need a faster exit. we need a quick exit from the exit. we need a renaissance of coal and nuclear power for safe energy, for affordable energy, for safe jobs. this is important. and we have to stand up for that.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, ‘ukraine and crimea, belarus and moldova, that is my country’. these rhymes were chanted on the eighth anniversary of the crimean annexation in moscow this year, a month ago. putin himself addressed this rally in russia’s biggest stadium packed with war supporters. as the invasion of ukraine teaches us, the kremlin’s signals should never be ignored. during the ongoing invasion of ukraine, the kremlin is already aiming at moldova as its next target. a land bridge to occupied transnistria is a tempting consolation prize for putin to claim some victory and appease his supporters. this is one more reason for the eu to remain vigilant and stand with moldova’s pro-european government, and this government of moldova is european to the very core, for the first time in many years. in just over a year, moldova has demonstrated strong commitment to its european future. the quality of democracy and press freedom has improved significantly, while human rights are better protected. moldova now becomes the leader of the eastern partnership. yet many achievements need to be urgently addressed. the so-called russian peacekeepers still occupy parts of moldova. the ‘false flag’ operation in this region drastically increased the risk of the war spillover. meanwhile, moldova, with its 1.5 million population, is demonstrating unique solidarity by sheltering over 450 000 ukrainians since the start of the invasion. this puts huge pressure on the infrastructure of this generous country. increased energy consumption and limited housing options are challenges that moldova can solve only with the assistance of the eu. we cannot abandon moldova at this decisive moment. as the people of moldova have proved, the eu is moldova’s clear choice. application for candidacy is the first step. through its dedication and the merit—based process, moldova will become a full member of the european family.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not so today the european parliament is concerned about the welfare of ukrainian refugee women. despite the enormous efforts poland is making to provide safety, shelter and food for ukrainian women refugees, this resolution is of course being used to criticise poland for its attitude to human life at all stages. but not enough. under the pretext of protecting ukrainian women who are victims of sex trafficking, they must of course be offered abortion immediately upon arrival. human rights and all. but when many women in ukraine have been degraded for years by the most privileged classes from all over the world, exploiting their precarious economic situation, to be reduced in a degrading way to relatively inexpensive mobile incubators, the ukrainian legal system largely deprives these desperate women of their rights, because the interests of the clients of the "ware baby" seem to be the only ones worth protecting, nothing is heard from the eu parliament, nothing at all. the "ware baby" has long since become ukraine's export hit. and the ukrainian legal system not only deprives these mothers of their rights, but also often feeds them with a few hundred euros for the sale of their bodies, while the baby-dealing companies they represent earn tens of thousands of euros. in this way, if something goes wrong with the delivery, it is not uncommon for the delivery to be refused. the european parliament is upset about everything. but the eu parliament is silent on these outrageous, inhuman acts, as if the balance of interests worth protecting had shown that the human rights of ordinary ukrainian women were behind the lifestyle desires of the privileged classes. so please stop claiming in your misleading paper that the main way to help the women who are fleeing from ukraine is to make abortion easier! it's a distraction from truly dramatic circumstances.
mr president, madam commissioner, the russian offensive in ukraine and in the besieged cities has thrown millions of women into the roads of exile, exposing them to sexual abuse and other atrocities. many women and girls are forced to cross the border alone in the hope of escaping the war. they are in great danger of becoming victims of trafficking in women for sex work. for them, the bombing and fighting are accompanied by a more insidious danger - sexual violence. the risks of rape, sexual assault and harassment are also high for those who remained in ukraine. the work of documenting the abuses currently being committed by the russian forces is obviously still to be done. refugee women who are victims of intersectional discrimination, such as roma women, non-ukrainian women, black women or women of african descent, migrant women, women with disabilities, and lgbtq people are left behind and disproportionately affected by this conflict. refugee women also face increased risks in terms of access to sexual and reproductive health and rights. many of them do not have access to contraception or to legal and safe abortion. we need to put in place specific strategies by supporting and protecting civil society organisations and ngos that put their own freedom at risk and work tirelessly to alleviate the situation of refugee women, especially those who are victims of sexual exploitation. commissioner, how will you support the coordination of health services, ensuring that women have access to all sexual and reproductive health services? what strategies will you put in place to ensure the safety and well-being of survivors and to ensure that women who have fled ukraine because of their high vulnerability can receive special protection and psychological support in their mother tongue? women's bodies should not be a battlefield, neither for the invaders, nor for the men in the same camp, much less for the traffickers of women.
i have to say, madam president, the war in ukraine has obviously caused a lot of suffering for women too. i don't want to belittle that. but if mrs charanzová - i think that's the right name - says that women are the biggest victims of war, then that's just fake news and stupidity. in ukraine, men fight, not women. men are torn by shells, torn by bullets, mutilated by mines, not women. men die in the field, in the defense of kiev, in the mariupol steelworks, not women. men are defending the freedom of ukraine and, by the way, the freedom of women. it's not women. these men did not want war. they didn't want all the misery, the suffering. but they bear the brunt of the war, not women. but here it is done as if the women were the main victims. this is really, let's be clear, this is grotesque. and instead of always talking about women and housing and abortion rights and such, you should think about what we can finally do for the heroic fighters in kiev and mariupol, because here almost nothing is done for them. you should really debate that. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question under the 'blue card' procedure)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. more than five million women and children have already fled the brutal war in ukraine, and they face many dangers: robbery, rape. and we have to protect them. they need safe escape corridors. they need safe shelter. they need food and, of course, medical care. and the countries that are doing the most are poland and hungary. the way the eu treats them is all the more sad. they had no support, and i remember this: despot erdoğan was given 3 billion so that he could help refugees from syria despot erdoğan. the poles and the hungarians are now being attacked by the gender ideologues in the eu. the lgbtiq scene is particularly important, and apparently particularly threatened, among refugees. i'm horrified, i really am horrified. and i want to remind you again: it's not poland and hungary that are preventing lgbtiq people from entering poland and hungary. it's the hungarians themselves who are preventing men from entering with wigs and high heels.
i have to say, madam president, what we have just heard about the extreme right in this parliament leaves me not only speechless but also speechless. it embarrasses me. we have tabled a resolution today on the impact of the violence of the war on women in ukraine. and it's about us coming together to find solutions to the suffering that women in particular are experiencing in ukraine right now. and then it's like we don't care about the other guys, the fighters. many women are also on the front lines, fighting as soldiers together. but women are subjected to a special kind of suffering, a brutality by the russian soldiers. rasa told me that the kadyrov special unit is a chechen unit that focuses on war crimes. and yes, it's important to point that out. and as for poland, yes, poland is taking in an insane number of refugees and we would like them to accept european aid. but they have to apply for it, and the application has not been made yet. why would you do that? i don't know, man. i would very much like to see us working together better and for the polish government to recognise that europe is doing a lot together with the poles and with all the other countries that are currently taking in a lot of refugees.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are all happy that the internal european frontiers have fallen. but i think we all also understood that the basic prerequisite for this is secure external borders. and these secure external borders have been a problem since at least 2015, when angela merkel in germany started to use the welcome culture as a very wrong incentive. since 2015, anyone who manages to come to germany is allowed to stay, is welcomed with open arms in the german social system and is allowed to catch up with his whole family on taxpayer expenses shortly after. thank god, many other european countries are skeptical of this policy and welcome borders. in october 2020/2021, the government leaders of austria, hungary, bulgaria, cyprus, the czech republic, denmark, estonia, greece, hungary, lithuania, latvia, poland and slovenia wrote to the commission requesting that it finally return to the priority of financing border installations. thank god, because these facilities are important, and we are regularly blackmailed, blackmailed by despots. first it was erdoğan who wanted to flood us with illegal migrants, and then it was the core democrat lukashenko, putin's best friend or, i don't know, maybe i'm being virtuous too; i think schröder is putin's best friend, you don't know that for sure. in any case, he has put enormous pressure on the eu and blackmailed us. and thank god, thank god, the robust poles saved us from that, and for that we must give thanks. i would like to thank the polish government and the polish people for having done this for all of us. so now they want to build a border facility, 180 kilometers. and i say, thank god, too. but we must prevent this measure from being used again, as the greens always try to do: for conservation reasons, of course, it must not be built, because bats, bats and other small animals are in danger. we have known about this policy for years, decades now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can't stand this madness anymore. we need those border facilities. and once again, on behalf of the german people, thank you to poland. thank you very much. keep it up! don't give up on me!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is not the first time białowieża has been the subject of discussion. we know that the commission is quite capable of acting decisively, as it has done in the past when illegal deforestation has taken place in this highly protected world heritage site. now it's just about a wall. but this wall is five meters high and almost 200 kilometers long. for the construction, trees are cut down, roads are widened. there's more traffic, more noise, more fire danger. and wisente, elche, koniks, luchse... they will not be able to cross this wall. the populations in poland and belarus are thus genetically isolated. this is a flagrant breach of the habitats directive, which the environment dg cannot tolerate. the polish government is now making the absurd claim that public security is being threatened by a few hundred desperate people who, in search of just that security for themselves and their children, are stranded in the no man's land between poland and belarus. is it not rather that these people have the wrong skin color or the wrong religion, according to the polish government? we are witnessing the enormous help that poles are prepared to give right now on the ukrainian border. i therefore thank the european commission for finally standing up to save one of our last remaining forests and i urge it to take the matter to the european court of justice again if necessary.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, moldova is truly european. it has a european government that, in a short time, managed to make significant democratic improvements. it has generous people who have received thousands of ukrainian fleeing the war. despite being a progressive country, moldova also faces many challenges. the russian invasion of ukraine and illegal military presence in transnistria threaten moldova. poverty, corruption and energy dependency make moldova vulnerable. even more so, the hybrid operation and disinformation coming from moscow weaken moldova’s political stability. however, today is a historic moment to write a better future for the country. for this, the moldovan government needs to navigate through very difficult waters, and the eu will be there to show the way. we already helped to ramp up the pressure from gazprom, to accommodate thousands of ukrainians and to support moldova’s territorial integrity. there is much more that the eu can – and should – do. most importantly, we need to make sure that the financial help actually arrives in moldova, speaking not only to president sandu this morning; they reminded us how much we can help through our financial support. so why hasn’t moldova received the funds we promised? moldova needs to continue pro—democratic reforms, combat corruption and uphold fundamental freedoms, and make sure that democratic development creates a foundation for economic progress so that moldovans use their talents and skills to generate prosperity in their country. i strongly believe in the european future of moldova, and for that to happen, we need to secure its european presence now.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the proposed enlargement of the eu is not only a completely wrong approach, but a highly dangerous one. it is wrong because both the balkan countries and the republic of moldova hardly meet any of the copenhagen criteria for eu accession. it is also wrong because highly corrupt moldova currently ranked 105th on the corruption index would be a net beneficiary for many years. who's gonna pay for this? i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. the accession plan is dangerous because the breakaway transnistria is planning a referendum on joining russia. so not only would we bring a highly corrupt state into the eu, which would be a net beneficiary for decades, but we could also be drawn into a direct conflict with russia. so there is no single rational reason in the interest of our citizens to even consider moldova's accession to the eu. (interruption of the debate) shame on you!
madam president, i send my congratulations to the rapporteur. to protect the rule of law is so essential, not only outside the eu, but especially inside the eu. i can’t resist answering this colleague from ecr. the simple fact in europe is, if you want to become a member, if you want to stay a member in the european union, you have to guarantee rule of law and democracy. it’s not a ‘nice to have’, and therefore it is very important that we have the right instruments here at hand to make sure that it happens and that citizens trust us that we can deliver on this essential value of the eu. here indeed, commissioner, we see room for improvement in the reports, especially, on the one hand, regarding the scope. i think that we really have to extend it to cover democracy and fundamental rights, especially also including women’s rights, migrants’ rights and lgbtiq rights. also, and it was mentioned here already, it doesn’t help to treat all member states the same way, because we cannot step away from the fact that we have member states – in the plural – in the european union with systematic and severe attacks and violations of rule of law. we have to address it. we have to make it stronger to keep the trust of the citizens and hopefully also of the rapporteur.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, the spanish colleague who works in the committee on petitions has already said everything she could about your report, namely that we are not credible if we only accuse governments of a certain colour of breaching the rule of law. the report is exactly the same: it is really only about poland and hungary. and then you agree to such absurd formulations as: 'none of the criteria that constitute a democracy would be met'. so we just had elections in both countries. we have courts, we have parliaments, we have separation of powers. and if you always think that the appointment of judges in these countries is undemocratic, then i would suggest that you look at how it works in germany - with the only difference that in germany the prosecutors are not independent, but are bound by instructions. it is particularly absurd, however, when you accuse us of growing anti-semitism. i think in warsaw and budapest you can walk around with the kippa; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the american jewish center berlin has just pointed out that anti-semitism is particularly strong among muslims and that muslims are the source of the greatest anti-semitism in germany. perhaps you will also devote yourself to this subject, and then the rule of law report will also become a little more meaningful and truthful. the way he is now, you can only kick him in the barrel. i agree with the spanish colleague that you are not credible and your report is not credible at all!
i have to say, madam president, the rule of law, fundamental values and european values are under pressure in europe. we must therefore use the various instruments we have consistently, coordinate them and develop the rule of law report. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mrs terry reintke, for her very, very good report. but i would also like to say at this point that if we are talking about the attacks on the rule of law in individual member states, i must also mention a major attack by the european commission on all the civil rights of the 440 million european citizens: with the chat monitoring proposed by the european commission, digital letter secrecy would be dead. it would be a big brother agency that monitors the private communications of citizens. this stasi 2.0 is to be rejected from my point of view. this has nothing to do with european values. these are chinese models. i appeal to the european commission to withdraw this proposal, otherwise you will not have to talk about civil rights in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union has unfortunately reached a self-imposed dead end. with viktor orbán's veto of the russian oil embargo, we now have only two bad options: either we abandon european unity, the solidarity, and the embargo in doubt without hungary, or we give in to his blackmail. we don't know how much it's going to cost. but we know where the money ends up, in the pockets of his corrupt clique. i'm tired of us getting into these situations over and over again. it would have been avoidable if the european commission, if the member states had listened to what the european parliament has been saying for years, if we had shown viktor orbán the limits long ago, if we had sanctioned his attacks on democracy and the rule of law by withdrawing funds or depriving him of the right to vote. so to prevent this from happening again in a few months' time, to prevent us from being in the same situation again, we have put a number of proposals on the table. terry reintke has made a long list, because orbán does not change his behaviour because we are writing a report for the third time, but it must finally have consequences. i very much hope, commissioner, that we will get this right and ensure that the next autocrat does not cripple the eu.
in writing. the european commission publishes its annual rule of law report, which assesses whether member states are adequately respecting the values enshrined in article 2 of the eu treaty, such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law, in the implementation of eu law. of course, this moral hygiene is one-sided and applies only to the member states, not to the eu itself. as we speak about the independence of the judiciary in poland, i would like to remind you of the following: since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in 2009, member states have issued 461 reasoned opinions to indicate, in accordance with protocol no 2 to the treaties, that a legislative proposal from the commission is in their view contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. in all cases, the european court of justice ruled in favour of the commission. the court of justice has never once taken account of the concerns of the member states! does that sound like an independent judiciary? i think it's the opposite. let 's not kid ourselves . when the eu speaks of the rule of law, it is really talking about the rule of the left. in fact, i believe that the rule of law is better upheld by the constitutional courts in hungary and poland than by the eurocrats in brussels or berlin.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, when we condemn putin for his cruelty in ukraine, we should never forget that he is not acting alone. the missiles on lviv, kyiv and vinnytsia were fired from belarus. russian troops entered bucha and irpin from belarus, from gomel. when the russians started to retreat from kyiv, they used places in belarus to send the looted goods. russians did all this because the belarusian dictator, aleksander lukashenko, allowed them to do so. before he became an accomplice to atrocities in ukraine, lukashenko spent 27 years torturing his own people. in 2020 we saw the awakening of the free belarusian spirit. hundreds of thousands marched in the streets with flowers and white and red flags. they were brutally crushed by lukashenko’s militias. just because we do not hear the voices of victims does not mean that the violence has stopped. on the contrary, the number of political prisoners in belarus has reached more than 1 200. among them are the trade union leaders and many other innocent representatives who were arrested last april. their crime was the resistance of the violent regime and their demand for fundamental freedoms. as the sanctions are starting to become effective, and the income of lukashenko’s regime is drying up, the fall of the regime is inevitable. our decisive actions now should speed up this fall. lukashenko belongs in the international criminal court, right next to mr putin.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. in belarus, workers and trade unions have been sabotaging arms deliveries and supplies for the russian war of aggression as a sign against the war. these are now facing massive repression. but it is clear that women workers must have the right to organise in trade unions for their position. this applies to social as well as political demands. repression is unacceptable. but especially in times of crisis and war, trade union rights are being eroded in belarus, russia and, unfortunately, also in ukraine. no matter where, no matter what war, the workers and the common people pay the highest price in these wars that are not fought in their interests. that is why it is right that they should defend themselves against it. the european union has also been involved in the fight against terrorism, and has also been involved in the fight against terrorism. my solidarity goes to the belarusian, the italian, the women workers of the world. they can stop wars. i would like to end by quoting a poem by wolfgang borchert, which sums it up: "you, man at the machine and man in the workshop. if tomorrow they order you to stop making water pipes and cooking pots and to start making steel helmets and machine guns, then there's only one thing to do: say no!
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard that the situation in belarus is getting worse and worse, that the kgb is brutally attacking trade unionists, arresting trade unionists, the leadership, threatening people, confiscating their means of work and thus trying to break up the trade union movement, especially to intimidate the members into leaving this federation, which is relatively small compared to the state unions, with its 12 000 members compared to 4 million. it's so important that we send a message that we're here to support the prisoners. they need our protection, our solidarity, but also our practical support. that is why i think it is very, very important that we say again very clearly: all political prisoners must be released, but also real freedom of assembly, trade union rights must be protected in belarus and everywhere. i would like to conclude by quoting the international secretary of the federation of free trade unions, maryja taradsezkaja, who said: 'i believe in the universe and in trade unions, and i believe in the solidarity and the capacity of europe to act.'
in accordance with rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, five motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 may 2022.
the next item is the debate on the report by ms aurore lalucq, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the introduction of a global minimum tax for multinational enterprise groups in the union (com (2021) 0823 c9-0040/2022 2021/0433 cns). i would like to point out once again that, with the exception of the first two rows, you may move up if you take part in this debate now. so you don't have to stay in the back of the room. you can send spontaneous messages and blue cards with your electronic voting card or you can contact us directly. that brings us to the rapporteur of this report, mrs lalucq, you have the floor.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a great day for european taxation, because we, the representatives of european citizens, are taking the first step towards the gradual loss of interest in tax havens. so, of course, i will not hide it from you, i would have liked a slightly higher rate which would have allowed for a greater reallocation of resources. i would also like to see the exemptions ended and i would like to see more multinationals involved so that no one cheats with these rules and justice is finally done for those who are working and participating in the common effort. but, as our rapporteur said earlier, we preferred to reach an agreement and move forward - at any rate to secure this first step for this european event. but unfortunately the parliament's position which we are discussing today is only advisory. i would have liked to turn to the presidency, but it is not there, so i turn to you, madam commissioner: if there is no agreement on the 24th, what are you going to do? if there is no agreement on 17 june, what will you do and how will we proceed? the treaties give you the means to settle this unjust dogma of unanimity. the concessions made to reach an agreement jeopardise the implementation of the global agreement. why keep playing with fire? why continue to risk all progress and change on the altar of nationalism on such fundamental issues as tax justice and, therefore, social justice? the member states, or at least some of them, are now putting their own interests ahead of the common good. the will of european citizens is to put an end to unanimity in taxation. so if you could hear us, thank you.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this parliament supports the oecd agreement on the minimum taxation of multinationals and claims that it is an important step towards greater tax justice. we are particularly concerned about greater tax fairness. the socialist group has recently invited the former brazilian president lula da silva to parliament - the same da silva who was convicted and imprisoned twice in brazil for corruption and money laundering. and then there is ukrainian president zelensky, whose party has just joined the european alde party. because of the pandora papers, we know that selenskyy moved at least $40 million for himself and his cronies to safe haven tax havens. under his ruling party, ukraine remains one of the most corrupt and poorest countries in europe. hypocrites like to bask in the glow of renunciation and renunciation, but secretly they don't like to miss the sensations of the sinner. so let's be honest, you just want more taxes, not justice. my group wants, above all, less taxation for everyone except for multinationals. and we want this without ifs and buts, just consistently.
member of the commission. – madam president. good evening, colleagues. i want to reassure you, i was actually physically present and i hadn’t realised that you had started, madam president, but i was glad when i entered the chamber to hear a speech with strong support for what we’re trying to do collectively here. so maybe i’ll start by highlighting, if that is necessary, that the commission is fully committed to ensuring the timely implementation of the two-pillar oecd/g20 agreement. and this is, as i know you will agree, a historic step in reforming international taxation, but it’s also an example of multilateral successes that we should all be proud of. as you know, the implementation of the two pillars of the global agreement in 2023 will ensure that our tax system reflects the new reality of our economies and allows for a level playing field between all business models where all companies, including digital ones, pay their fair share of taxes in the right place. that is why pillar 2 needs to be urgently adopted. i know that you don’t need to be convinced, but i’m really grateful to this parliament for your constant push for a quick adoption of this important file. and i’d like to thank you for having opted – because of the need for a quick transposition – to adopt the agreement, and that the text does not propose any significant amendments to the directive and stays close to the oecd deal, as agreed. i don’t think that i need to dwell on the text of the directive itself, but only perhaps to underline two points. first, by establishing a minimum level of 15% effective taxation, we put a floor on the race to the bottom on corporate tax rates. i’m well aware that many of you honourable members wished this rate was higher. nonetheless, the 15% raise is the one endorsed by all member states and by our partners at the international level. so i thank you for accepting this race to ensure a swift implementation of the international agreement. in our implementation of pillar 2, we remain closely aligned with the details of the global agreement, providing only for necessary adjustments to preserve compliance with eu law. second, the directive will apply to all groups with a turnover of more than eur 750 million. and here i appreciate that parliament’s report stresses the intended scope of the directive. the commission agrees with the general spirit of most of the amendments proposed by parliament, and we, of course, share the sense of political urgency to have a swift adoption and implementation of the directive. we have already travelled a long way and expectations are very high. so the ball is now in the court of the council. i would like to underline that while we fully share the view that there is a need to advance as fast as possible on the finalisation of the pillar 1 rules, creating a conditionality between the pillars would be legally questionable in the light of case law of the eu court of justice. let me finish by strongly encouraging the last opposing member state to reconsider its position and agree to the latest compromise.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank very specially the negotiating team of the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, and very specially the lead rapporteur, mrs aurore lalucq, for achieving a very broad consensus in this institution to support the proposal of the european commission and, no doubt, to increase the pressure on some country in the council which seems to be blocking the final decision of the member states. this proposal, in my view, confirms a reorientation of global policies, of the global debate, of the dominant thinking of the last decades, which for all these years has insisted on reducing taxes, on attracting investment by diluting, fragmenting the power of the states, of public administrations, to set taxes and redistribute income: this proposal breaks that dominant thinking and needs a broad consensus, unanimous support, such as we will see tomorrow from this parliament. we also need the polish government to stop blocking the adoption of this directive in the council. even if the additional proposal is necessary to implement the other pillar of this agreement in the oecd, this cannot be an obstacle to the adoption of this directive in the council, and i hope that the support of this parliament will serve to support the commission and finally convince poland.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, what we're discussing here is really time-sensitive. we should have done it a long time ago. the economy has changed, corporations have changed. so politics has to change. it's time for things to happen. we are discussing today the minimum tax rate for international corporations at 15 percent. and there is hardly a voter in my native germany who does not want that. now, the fact is that we are free voters and i am not a tax friend and i am more of the opinion that the state should keep its taxes more economical. but what we're doing here is really very important, and i'm very happy that we're getting a great deal of unity here across party lines, across nations. i hope that everyone in the council understands how important it is to introduce this minimum tax of 15 per cent here. because these companies - we all know this - use our system in the european union, which creates costs, investments that the state has to pay, and ultimately everyone has to share in these costs. we cannot allow countries in the world to undermine our system and then make it harder for us to do so by avoiding taxation. if we now take this big step with 15 percent - and i think it is really good - may i make one more request to the german federal government: it would be nice if we could also move the taxes in germany for smes towards 15 percent, so that we are, so to speak, competitive there too.
that concludes this item. the vote will take place on thursday 19 may 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure).
i have to say, madam president, on europe day, 9 may, 13 member states issued a joint declaration rejecting the core demand of the conference on the future of europe, namely the demand for treaty changes to create an eu state which would erase the sovereignty of the member states. the conference on the future is in fact calling for a european constitution. in 2005, this idea was rejected by majorities in referendums in france and the netherlands following the convention on the future of europe. now 13 member states are against it. and since hungary is even more determined to reject an eu constitution and so did not sign the declaration, we have a majority against it. when will the eu finally include the word 'no' in its vocabulary, the 'no' of our peoples to more and more eu? only the german government wants to wipe out its own country. my advice, therefore, is that if the german government wants something, it is better to oppose it.
that concludes this item.
the meeting will resume tomorrow, thursday 19 may 2022, at 8.30 a.m. with the debate on the oral questions relating to the european education area. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not microcredentials a kind of passport to ensure access to the labour market for those who have acquired green and digital skills. it is emphasized that this initiative is not oriented towards the needs of the labour market to be covered. i'm glad we talked about this. because anyone who knows how the eu works knows that what is explicitly denied is exactly what is pursued. the fact that this initiative is not at all within the eu's regulatory competence is made clear by the fact that the commission is called upon to implement a strongly motivating instrument which forces the member states to tolerate this unconstitutional measure of competence. the rapporteur himself seems to realize this when he pre-emptively sets up the flashpoint of voluntary transposition. that is why today's observation is that the eu does not subject the member states to the whip, but to the illusion of voluntariness. that's great.
in writing. they've convinced people that climate change is the end of the world. over three quarters of young people are concerned about this, and almost half are so concerned that they feel it interferes with their daily lives. it's convenient for you. you can impose your redistribution agenda undisturbed, and when the young one day finds that they remain poor and cannot reproduce the living standards of their parents, then it is not you and your devastating policies that are to blame, but the oh-so-spongy climate change, which we are all somehow to blame for. you're so comfortable with this that you want to make sure it stays that way, because after all, you want to keep us busy with your crazy green deal for decades to come. this is why, after education, you are entering a field which is deeply national and which forms an essential part of a person's cultural identity. who could possibly have something against biodiversity, sustainability and the future of the planet? but in fact, you are about indoctrinating people from an early age, gaining supremacy over the crib and creating diffuse fears to be able to rule more easily - all for an agenda of redistribution from the bottom up.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i say to our ukrainian friends, first and foremost, we owe you our support in fighting back against this war of aggression. that’s why military deliveries are necessary to fight back and to push back. but in cases of murder, rape, torture, ‘fighting back’ means for families of victims, for survivors and also the fact that the perpetrators must be brought to justice. this is why it is important that any russian soldier, private, any commander, any politician in russia knows that they will be held accountable for their crimes. if not today, then tomorrow. if not tomorrow, then in the face of history, in front of tribunals and in the history books. they will not be remembered as glorious heroes, but as criminals who tied people’s hands behind their back before shooting them in the neck. we say to you, you will be held accountable. wars are not a free pass for atrocities. even wars have rules. and breaking them is a severe crime. it’s that simple. that’s why we applaud the commission’s efforts to secure evidence to support investigation teams and task forces. we call on member states who practise universal jurisdiction to practise it actively. we call on those who don’t to join universal jurisdiction and to support the international criminal court, eurojust and europol. we owe it to survivors and to the families of victims, and we owe it to ourselves.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear guests from ukraine! war crimes are, of course, inexcusable and they must be investigated just as naturally, regardless of where they were committed - whether in bucha, mariupol or kharkiv - and regardless of which side they were committed by, and of course regardless of whether the perpetrators were regular soldiers, mercenaries or militiamen. that is why we support any investigation. the problem with this proposal is that it mixes the necessary demand for information and punishment of the perpetrators with demands for sanctions, which will be particularly damaging to europe. one has nothing to do with the other. it's a misuse of war crimes to advance an idiotic political agenda. the eu is not responsible for solving war crimes and should never be. that is what independent courts should do, and we have an international court in the hague that should do just that. we support the investigation of war crimes, but we reject the use of such investigations as a tool in favour of sanctions and the extension of the eu's powers. that is the only reason why we are voting against this motion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if the last new building is paved with chinese-made solar panels and the 10h regulation is finally dropped in bavaria and elsewhere, then we may also notice that all this is of no use to us. ladies and gentlemen of the commission, perhaps you will step down from your ivory tower. we do not need to constantly expand our competence in your favour under the guise of constantly new crisis management. the commission president admits quite openly: the present situation, the gas boycott in poland and bulgaria, is also nothing more than a first spark for the green deal and the spark for 300 billion euros of taxpayers' money. we do not need man-on-the-moon projects and the first-lighting of projects that are doomed to fail at launch and at best launder money into the pockets of our chinese competitors. we need affordable, secure energy, and the only way to achieve this is to reduce ideology and to diversify the energy mix across europe, open to technology, for the benefit of all countries and all citizens. we don't have to replace one dependency with another, as we are doing now. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear staff! thank you very much. in march the commission was still considering which autocrat it would next appeal to for fossil energy. now it's changed and it's save, switch, search. save energy, switch to renewables and then look where we need to look for more fossils. the main thing is to save money: it reduces our dependence, it relieves our citizens and businesses, and it brings sustainable climate protection. it is also good that the repower package focuses on cooperation and solidarity. but there's still something missing. we're still waiting for the implementation of the citizens' energy rights from the last legislature's clean energy package. the commission must finally call on and encourage the member states to step on their toes, but also give them a blueprint for how best to implement this package, so that each and every one of them can invest in renewables, share their energy with their neighbours and stand up to putin together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. putin's greatest fear is an energy-independent europe. and with repowereu, we have made a historic decision: we are using our european energy resources, solar and wind. we are moving towards 100% renewable energy. our homes become our power plants, the solar mandate comes. 70 million solar roofs can replace the entire russian gas import. we're going to build solar plants in europe. this is good for industry, for future jobs and for independence from china. all this has worked thanks to many citizens. your pressure is what's keeping us going. but that success is at stake with funding. they propose to finance the energy transition by increasing co2 emissions. you can't be serious! we have declared an air-conditioning emergency. we must be champions of the paris agreement. i ask you all not to block ambitious climate action!
so there is a majority to have a resolution to wind up the debate in june i. i’ll read out the deadlines now: motions for resolutions then will have to be tabled by tuesday 7 june at midday. amendments to the motions for resolutions, and joint motions for resolutions on wednesday 8 june at noon. amendments to joint motions for resolutions wednesday 8 june at 13.00. and split and separate votes wednesday 8 june at 19.00.
madam president, i would like to inform you that there is some glitches with the translation. we can hardly understand what’s being said. this is unacceptable.
ok, i will send an usher to your desk to see whether in the meantime maybe you can get a headphone from somewhere else. the problem is everywhere? ok. is it still like this if i talk now? mr tarabella, can you hear me now? is it still a problem? yes, you can speak, of course. everyone can speak. we just need to know whether we can understand you now.
madam president, i was making a few gestures to express exactly the same thing as the previous speaker: we hear the interpreters in bits and pieces, in a haphazard way. so it's not a problem of connectivity where you are because there are many of us who have the same problem, and in several languages apparently. anyway, the french phone booth is inaudible because the communication is cut off; it comes to us intermittently. i imagine it's a technical problem that comes from there rather than receptors in our offices.
yes, i see your point now. yes, it keeps glitching and it keeps breaking up. we’ll have to wait a little bit. it looks like it works now. so we’ll try again. thanks a lot, and apologies. the ecr group has asked for council and commission statements on the massacre of christians in nigeria to be added as the third point in the afternoon for tuesday. i give the floor to kosma złotowski to move the request on behalf of his group.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. two years ago, 340 million christians lived in areas where they were at risk of persecution. today it's 360 million. and it's not because people, christians, move to areas where they're persecuted. last year, 5,900 christians were killed for their faith. that's 20% more than last year. this is a serious problem. and then yesterday, there was a massacre. at least 50 people were killed during sunday's church service. this is reason enough for the european parliament to take up this subject in the debate. that is why the ecr group is requesting such a debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, no, i did not really want to speak against it. we believe that what happened yesterday in nigeria is a real massacre of women, men and children and that it certainly deserves a debate in the house. we are asking the ecr group to consider the possibility of not holding the debate tomorrow but postponing it to wednesday.
i see the ecr group accepts that, so i’ll put the request for this item to take place on wednesday to the vote by roll call. (parliament approved the request)therefore these items will be added on the wednesday. we will fit it in. also for wednesday, the ecr group has asked that the council and commission statements on ‘global threats to abortion rights: the possible overturn of abortion rights in the us by the supreme court’ be taken out of the agenda. i will first give the floor to margarita de la pisa carrión to move the request on behalf of the ecr group and then to iratxe garcía pérez to speak against.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, peaceful international coexistence is based on respect for the political course that each country decides democratically and on respect for the decisions of its courts; it is not wise to question them here in the european parliament by expressing opinions in partisan debates, and even less so on matters in which the union has no competence. we therefore ask that this debate on abortion not be held next wednesday: it is an inadmissible interference in the jurisdiction of a country like the united states simply because it does not satisfy the line that is being legitimately followed by millions of people, millions of people who value life, who defend real human rights and who, with common sense, are not going to accept the imposition of new and inconsistent ideologies that lead us to lose our natural identity. abortion is a tragedy that no one can desire, not a right. i would like to see this parliament speak up in defence of our dignity as women in support of motherhood. consider: what is the destiny of a society that does not appreciate life?
madam president, it is the duty of this parliament to take care of and work for the guarantee of human rights and fundamental rights everywhere in the world. we don't care what country it is. and if this parliament has to raise its voice to tell the american administration to defend the rights of its women, then we do so, as we have done with many other countries, guaranteeing the rights of women inside and outside the european union. women's rights are therefore also human rights and this parliament must speak out on this.
the request is rejected, so the agenda remains unchanged. for wednesday, the id group has asked for a commission statement on ‘the union’s fiscal and monetary options to fight rising prices in the eu’ to be added as a second point in the evening. i give the floor to nicolaus fest to move the request on behalf of his group.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are often talking about issues that are literally far from the european citizen. then we should also take the time to talk about a subject that is now burning more and more on the nails of the citizens, because hardly any citizen knows how to finance the rising prices and, above all, his life and that of his family. and that is why i am asking, on behalf of the id group, that we supplement the agenda and then, on wednesday, as the second item after the two votes, discuss the fiscal and monetary policy options of the union and also how the union itself might contribute to this price rise and inflation. the proposal has been on the cop's table several times, but today i am counting on your approval.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just voted to hold a debate on wednesday on what has happened in nigeria. so we risk having a debate on a very important subject, but in an absolutely limited time, unless the id group decides to change the subject of the discussion on topical issues with this important debate on rising prices in europe.
the request is rejected, so the agenda remains unchanged. for thursday, the ppe group has asked that the debate and the resolution on the council and commission statements on ‘the call for a convention for the revision of the treaties’ taking place on thursday morning be postponed to the june ii part—session. i give the floor to sven simon to move the request on behalf of the ppe group.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the ppe group has asked that the debate and the resolution on the council and commission statements on the call for a convention for the revision of the treaties taking place on thursday morning be postponed to the second june part—session. europe will not be made at once. with those famous words, robert schuman started his famous speech 70 years ago, and it is still true today. in a democracy, people and colleagues want to have time to discuss the things in which they want to be involved. in particular, when we are talking about such an important issue like establishing a convention, for which i am deeply fighting. most colleagues did not even have the time to read the resolution. we did not even finish negotiating it, so i really ask you to postpone it for two weeks. colleagues, we are talking about two weeks. in european history, it’s nothing. in a democracy and a democratic process, it means a lot.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have been negotiating this resolution for the last week and all weekend, and all the groups in this house have been leaning towards the epp. we have reduced a great deal in both form and content in order to have the epp on board, as i said. but i want to make it clear again: this is not an epp resolution, but a resolution of the groups in this house. and i would like to point out again, mr weber, that on 30 april you once again stressed in the süddeutsche zeitung that the citizens expect a clear message that the eu must become stronger, more efficient, more democratic and more ambitious. we see the same thing in the other groups, the s&d group, and i am speaking for renew, the greens and the left. we now have the opportunity to send a signal to the french presidency to take this up for the european council. in the history of europe, there's always been a moment when you have to jump. we have clear and really minimal demands here which are important. i therefore ask that the motion be dismissed.
the request is rejected, so the agenda remains unchanged. yes, mr simon, you would like to make a point of order.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, on behalf of the epp, i would request at least to postpone the vote on the resolution. colleagues need time to discuss. so please postpone at least the vote on the resolution. it is such an important issue that we should not lose the historic moment.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, mr commissioner, dear rapporteur, dear colleagues, it’s the same procedure as every year – almost every year – and honestly, this procedure is getting more and more tiring. every year we speak about human rights, democracy, about the situation in south—eastern turkey, about cyprus, about greece. and even those of us who are most open towards european perspectives for turkey are getting tired and are getting frustrated. but this year there is one more topic, a topic that has a potential not to damage but to destroy our relationship, because it is about security. it’s about existential issues for eu members. it’s about reliability of turkey as a defence partner. turkish support for ukraine has been an important cornerstone of ukraine’s defence and we did applaud turkey for this. but turkey is blocking nato’s membership of two countries bordering or close to russia, to the aggressor now. this is an issue of collective security, and this is a question of solidarity with two eu members. and we cannot rely on supportive and understandable behaviour of turkish government here. and if we can’t rely on turkey in the matter like this, if turkish government is using the nato accession issue to leverage their own agenda, then we have to say to our turkish partners, this is not the right way to go. the damage that is being done here to turkey’s reputation as an alliance member is immense and goes beyond what this government imagines. all of us, those who believe in turkey’s european future, are losing our faith. we’re losing our faith when we see the ruling on gezi case. we’re losing our faith when we see the position on nato accession. we call on our turkish friends, and this report is one of the last calls, to stop this path away from the european union. let’s work together. let’s return to the same european table.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. it's not often that i praise political opponents, but mr amor, your report is really good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i hear the commission's words again: yes, turkey is an important partner and there must be a high-level dialogue and then there will be further investment. you really wonder how long this is going to go on. what mr lagodinsky said is also true: we hear it every year: there are reports about turkey all the time, and every year it gets worse. we have the repression of opposition and minorities, we have the erosion of fundamental rights - especially for women - we have a completely politicized judiciary with absurd criminal proceedings against critics of the regime, we have endless corruption, no will to reform, money laundering, oligarchic structures, terrorist financing, and press freedom is highly endangered, and there is also severe homophobia. so, honestly, what else is needed to make this a reality? we talk about poland and hungary at every plenary session, but compared with turkey, these two countries are virtually paradises of freedom, civil rights, a functioning judiciary and a diverse press. turkey is an important partner, but it is probably not an important partner within the eu - at least not under erdoğan. we should take note of this at some point and, as long as erdoğan is there, we should definitely stop the accession negotiations and not transfer any more funds to turkey.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what happens when an organic farmer becomes a member of parliament and, for whatever reason, writes a report on defence policy? yes, basic military issues are being mixed with left-wing ideology. whereas sun tzu and clausewitz used to be taught, climate ideology is now to be taught in the field of defence. it is not surprising that the report fails the reality check. the core task of the military, to ensure the security of a country by deterrence and force, is completely torpedoed by the demands mentioned in this report. one of them is, seriously, that the expansion of an army must not lead to an increased carbon footprint. in germany, thanks to the old parties, we have a completely under-managed military, which is in dire need of massive investment and structural reforms. it is simply impossible with such unrealistic standards. a leopard 2 a tank, for those who don't know still swallows 530 liters of diesel per hour or per 100 km, sorry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is crazy. it even calls for governments to submit military emissions reports to the un and national parliaments. but that would release key information, like military prowess. should we not send our opponents a concrete list of our military? let us instead agree on something that makes sense and is feasible, such as the inclusion of an ecological perspective in future decisions, for example in peacetime exercises. the crucial aspect, of course, must be and remains the ability to defend oneself. if we are to emerge victorious from future crises or even wars, we need better strategy, equipment and fighting power, not a better carbon footprint. and that is precisely why these decisions must remain and remain a national responsibility, so that in the end not one organic farmer decides on national security in germany. it was spoken by a lieutenant colonel of the once good, glorious german army.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not what can be said in a minute about the eu's indo-pacific strategy except that the developments there are incendiary? the military surges in the region are a fire hazard. the fact that proxy wars are coming to us in this region is already being seen, because the asian market is the market of the future. and what we're seeing is that the contradictions within capitalism are escalating, and that the great powers are now continuing to fight for markets and resources in their own self-interest, and here in the indo-pacific region as well. the hegemonic power of the united states says: china, as a new rising power, is my biggest competitor, and the situation here is getting worse. and the eu is following the us in its tracks. what makes it different? yes, in fact, i criticize china for considering the asian market, the asian countries as its backyard. but what is the eu doing with africa? what is the u.s. doing with latin america? what makes it different here? this is an imperialist policy which must be rejected in its entirety. what is the difference between the war in the russian federation and the us war in iraq? and i don't say this to relativize what russia is doing in ukraine, but to make it clear that here different imperial powers are waging wars on the backs of the people of the world and that must be rejected.
i have to say, madam president, i am grateful to the commissioner for being able to give me answers at this late hour. i'll make it very short, too. i have long wondered why we have to agree or be informed that residues of pesticides, which have long been banned in the european union, are allowed on products which can still be bought in our shops. in some cases, these quantities are even increased, as in a recent case, apparently because we cannot live without zucchini from the usa. i now ask the commission: how does it intend to deal in future with the fact that pesticides which are banned in the european union because of their dangers are nevertheless allowed on imported foodstuffs?
i have to say, madam president, according to a study by the zurich university of technology, the most effective measure to save the climate is to reforest the earth's surface. one third more of the world's forest land would absorb two thirds of the carbon produced industrially. germany is ranked 21st in the eu with 32% of its forest area. with 10 percentage points of afforestation, germany and the eu could make their contribution to saving the climate. instead, the eu is forcing green transformation and deindustrialisation. with 2 and 8 percent of global co2 emissions, our impact on the world's climate is zero. the result cannot therefore be climate rescue, but only the end of our competitiveness. you want this, because otherwise you're talking about reforestation here.
madam president, it was rather absurd when justin trudeau, prime minister of canada, lectured this house on freedom, democracy and the rule of law, considering the quasi totalitarian regime he runs in canada. unvaccinated canadians are not allowed to board an airplane to leave the country. while unvaccinated passengers pose no risk to anyone, the vaccinated pilots, however, might. this vaccine may have actually rendered them unfit to fly. what a shocker! but aside from that, countries, which deny their own citizens to leave the country do so because they are a dictatorship. why is the eu parliament not all over trudeau calling him out for these violations of human rights? oh wait, since the eu parliament is completely in line with the globalists’ sick, brave new world agenda, it only calls out governments which actually respect freedom, democracy and the rule of law.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not this is a big deal today: the eu's climate package, the "fit for 55" package. achieving the paris climate goals is vital for the survival of our planet. and in times of war in europe, we need energy security and a massive expansion of renewable energy. we need a european green pact with industry. pricing of emissions from imported goods and co2 compensation in parallel with the use of free pollution certificates is a positive incentive for change, for decarbonisation. we are calling for climate treaties to bring new technologies on the road as soon as possible. and it is clear that a socially just transformation of the economy can only be achieved through a just transition. the social climate fund is now targeting structural and direct investment in energy and mobility poverty, precisely where it hurts people in europe the most, and especially when the emissions trading system is extended to the buildings and transport sectors. climate justice, green industrial policy and social justice must go hand in hand. this is the only way to achieve the best for the climate and the people of europe.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. the commission has already done so. we are discussing today a milestone on the road to climate neutrality. and we, the free democrats, of course, stand by the paris agreement and want to take these necessary steps. we also support open technology and climate neutrality. and of course, you can also achieve this with alternative fuels in the combustion engine. we, the free democrats, will therefore vote against the ban on the combustion engine. as the author of the opinion on the ets aviation in the committee on transport, i would also like to speak about air transport. we all know that alternative fuels are the only way to decarbonize aviation. but today we have too little production capacity and too high a price. to solve this chicken-and-egg problem, i have therefore developed the saf allowances instrument, which is intended to provide more incentives for the use of alternative aviation fuels. the aim is to bridge the price gap, to get airlines to refuel with alternative fuels and to invest in the production capacity for alternative aviation fuels. i would ask you to support the amendments which i have tabled with my colleagues from the committee on transport, so that we can get air transport on a green path as quickly as possible!
mr president, mr manfred weber, and the members of the epp group! when you were last in the bavarian forest, did you see the many trees that were dry? i ask you: how do you explain to your constituents that the forests are dying on their doorstep and that you will vote tomorrow against climate policies that will curb this? mr stéphane séjourné, my fellow liberals, mr pascal, france has just survived the warmest and driest may on record. bottled water is being stored to provide your citizens with emergency supplies. in france, the nuclear power plants have to be shut down because of the lack of cooling water. how will you explain to your voters that tomorrow you will vote with the conservatives and the right wing of marine le pen against the climate emergency - the climate emergency we all declared here almost two years ago, after extreme droughts, deforestation and record temperatures? i ask you to put an end to the fossil alliance here in the european parliament. let us build the european sovereignty we dream of together! let's break free from putin's fossil shackles with europe's latest climate technologies: solar and wind power, battery factories and heat pumps. emissions trading can do that. if co2 has a strong price, then we can get out of coal by 2030. the commission is also proposing to make a number of changes to the existing rules. clean economy is rewarded, and then the co2 pollution party is finally over. let's build the best electric cars and high-speed trains made in europe and set the framework for this: 2035 finally out of the combustion engine! don't protect what's long gone. build what will flourish! mr weber, mr séjourné, you will be on the right side of history tomorrow! (the speaker agrees to reply to a question under the 'blue card' procedure)
blue-card reply. – emma, let me recall what your friend next to you, pascal canfin, said here around two years ago: he said to timmermans ‘i warn you, i warn you, don’t put an ets tool’ – from the renew group. so i think you just have to calm down a little bit when you now put the blame on the greens and s&d. but one thing is really important: we need to have a just climate transformation. your idea is that we phase out fossil cars by making the price very high. that means rich people can still afford to pollute the climate, whereas poor people not. that is not fair. we need to have the end of the combustion engine for everybody. that is fair climate policy.
i have to say, madam president, with the current legislative implementation of the green deal, the dangerous utopia of an eco-socialist brussels state of liability and redistribution is taking shape. the market is being put out of action, industry is being driven out of the eu - and the bureaucratic border compensation tax, which is hardly feasible, will not change that - and the citizen is being dispossessed, disenfranchised and controlled. they want to re-educate him in consumption and mobility patterns, with bans and massive co2 pricing, which has led to exploding prices already. the height of idiocy and ideology is reached when the taxpayer is graciously left with a tiny part of the squeezed co2 compulsory education tax in the form of a climate social fund political good behaviour to alleviate their energy poverty. the problem is not mature citizens, market principles, or technologically advanced innovation, but the idea of a 'bolshevik' eco-marxism.
madam president, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, dear commissioner, finally, for the very first time, we do have a social climate fund. finally, for the very first time, we in the eu are not only talking about poverty, we are acting against poverty – energy and mobility poverty. as greens, we always said that the green transition must also be just and should not increase inequalities. taking part of this transition should not be a matter of income. when we know that the transition will not happen by night and not everybody has a means to install a new solar panel on their roofs and – hooray! – we solve the problem. that is why we need this new social climate fund to help those who are most in need and provide structural change for them. as the scope of the new social climate fund is limited, we greens want to focus it on the most vulnerable groups: people in poverty, households, transport users and small entrepreneurs like the single mum in hungary who cannot pay her energy bills anymore, the family in the countryside that does not have public transport available to reach the city and is now struggling with the gas prices. these problems are already reality. in the long term we do not want to invest in fossil fuels, but in projects that will help both in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and help households to save energy, switch to green energies and build local transport solutions. a last saying in german, because i followed the debate here and there about the whole change in climate, in germany, we say:wer nicht mit der zeit geht, der geht mit der zeit.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking about the european social fund for the climate. that means we're talking about the impact of the green deal on people. and here it becomes clear: the green deal is not only neither green nor no deal; no, it is much more: it is antisocial, it drives people into poverty, and it leads to social unrest. why do i say that? the financial burden on the people is becoming clear. we're getting some numbers. the expansion of emissions trading to transport and housing alone adds €1 112 billion to the burden on european households. i repeat, eur 1 112 billion, and that is the sum of eur 1 300 million. and to cushion that burden, this social fund is being introduced. the european union is not a party to the treaty. the only bad thing is that this money is not going to the poorest of the poor again so very few people who can really afford the heating costs no, again the buyers of electric cars should be encouraged and supported. this can't be happening. in view of the crisis, we know that we need a secure and affordable source of energy, and that comes from coal and nuclear power. we need a renaissance of coal and nuclear power, and the green deal belongs in the trash.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's not like the lobbying pressure has been so strong in the last few weeks when it comes to the green deal, it's been like that for the last three years. some political forces in this parliament and also parts of industry are happy to use the fears of the people - food shortages, higher energy prices, the combustion engine - to undermine the ambitions of the 'fit for 55' package. but what we are seeing now is not the price of change, it is the price of postponing reform. and if the current crisis teaches us anything, it's how vulnerable our dependence on fossil fuels makes us. we don't need to keep going like this. we need a change in european climate policy. and that's why it's so important that all sectors do their part to reduce emissions. forests, meadows and moors were the underdogs. and we want to change that with the reform of the lulucf regulation. with a higher target for carbon removal, we're providing incentives to sustainably transform forestry, to restore ecosystems to good condition. because in order to fight the climate crisis, we need both: reducing emissions in all sectors of the economy and, of course, negative emissions. and that is why we have no ticket of freedom for the creation of an afolu sector in parliament's proposal. because compensating for failed emissions reductions by planting a few trees is like hitting the snooze button on the alarm clock. later, you have to repeat the work. it was also very important for us as s&ds to define the social partnership and the effects of the transformation on the labour market in the lulucf regulation. because not only with the climate and social fund do we make a social green deal, not only by putting things off, but by embedding the social in the regulations we are adopting here. and it is these principles that we are reinforcing in the reports from the environment committee. let us strengthen these and then go into the trilogue with a strong negotiating mandate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the 'fit for 55' package must remain our roadmap to a climate-neutral europe. we need courage today. we need courage to turn off the internal combustion engine in 2035. but we also need courage to change land use and forestry. the current adjustment, lulucf and the increased reduction targets are a milestone in principle, but we have no concrete guidelines for the actual implementation of forestry and wood use in the member states. this is a paradox. a study i commissioned shows that even today, in times of climate crisis and species loss, well over half of the eu member states still use felling as a standard method of harvesting timber. whole areas of forest are being cut down, and the forest floor is becoming a carbon emitter for decades. the lulucf targets will hopefully encourage member states to initiate change, to push for a more resilient forestry of the future and finally to stop logging.
mr president, commissioner, as an alternative rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism on this report, i would like to see the emission reduction for new vehicles set at 90% by 2035, as opposed to the 100% proposed by the european commission. i support my decision for three reasons. firstly, i am committed to technological neutrality which should encourage more research and innovation and more alternatives to achieve climate neutrality for cars and vans. i also propose a realistic estimate of emissions which includes those produced from the manufacture to the recycling of a vehicle and not just those from its operation. finally, because the uncertainties which are currently paralysing the renewal of the existing fleet must be removed and replaced by a cleaner and more efficient fleet which is already available and which will lead to an immediate reduction in emissions and from whose mobilisation manufacturers must obtain the main part of the resources to finance this transition. that is why i also support a system of emission credits and a specific package to finance this key process of decarbonising our mobility. a path we must take with and not against industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the importance of healthy ecosystems was very clearly stated by the unfccc in its latest report: restoring and ending the destruction of ecosystems are central to all climate change mitigation scenarios and essential to adapting to its consequences. we in the european union, which has already destroyed or irreversibly damaged most of its ecosystems, are therefore particularly called upon to protect and restore the moors, forests and grasslands. we are already seeing drought, heat and heavy rain affect our continent. people are suffering, losing their homes or their economic livelihoods. no one disputes that technological progress is imperative on the road to climate neutrality. but technology alone will not save us. we need nature as an ally. so do not let anyone tell you that you can save a forest by cutting down trees, and vote tomorrow at lulucf for the position of the environment committee!
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. europe's economic crisis, rising inflation, the war in ukraine and all the geopolitical problems we are facing are certainly affecting the level and potential of the european economy. the question is therefore whether the 'ready for 55' package is able to meet all these challenges. well, the premise of this package was before the war in ukraine, before russia invaded ukraine. europeans are the most affected by inflation today. so, can the restrictive climate policy assumptions of the 'get ready for 55' package mitigate this situation? i certainly don't. will the left in this chamber take responsibility for the deepening energy poverty that will affect europeans as a result of the measures being introduced? why is it that a country that talks so much about social sensitivity, does not notice the problems of the poorest people, especially those who use the system of heating, which these solutions absolutely do not see.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am speaking on the subject of co2 emission standards for cars and light commercial vehicles. and i have two announcements. one: i believe that electric cars have a great future. the key is that the charging infrastructure is built, is made available. i am convinced that if this is the case, throughout the european union, then the electric car will become self-driving. secondly, i am firmly against the phase-out of the internal combustion engine in 2035. i believe technology neutrality is the order of the day. i also see a future for alternative fuels, synthetic fuels, for hydrogen technology. i do not think that we members of parliament should decide which technology will be marketed, but i do think that there is still a lot of potential in terms of innovation, in terms of scientific progress. and we shouldn't rule out other technologies here in the first place. and we should also be honest and do a life-cycle assessment, a life-cycle assessment, and not just measure co2 emissions at the end of the day.
mr president, commissioner, the search for a solution to climate protection is like a system of equations with several unknowns. the first unknown: how to feed the world's population in the context of the extension of agriculture to the most fertile regions of the world? it is impossible to give a satisfactory answer to this question in the short term. the second unknown: how to protect the purchasing power of consumers if demand increases, if supply decreases and if individual income tends to be eaten away by inflation? in this case, we will have to be much more selective in the granting of aid. third unknown: why are we neglecting solutions that cost nothing and protect the climate? i am thinking in particular of energy savings, sundays without cars, speed limits - i think this is a matter of political will. fourth unknown: if we want to save the planet, how can we convince the rest of the world, which is responsible for 92% of greenhouse gas emissions, to make a strong commitment to do the same as the european union, and at the same pace? our responsibility is global. that is why i end by asking the commissioner responsible for climate, mr timmermans, whether you are really being given the means you need to contribute to a global response.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the fairy tale of the supposedly zero-emission electric cars is being propagated relentlessly. the commission's wishes are not the only ones. the internal combustion engine should be a thing of the past by 2035 at the latest. in the twisted logic of green wealth destroyers, every electric car fuelled by electricity generated from fossil fuels is a zero-emission vehicle. not only are the emissions from refuelling ignored, but also the very significant co2 backpack of all traction batteries, which is generated during production or energy-intensive recycling. and where's the power coming from? it is ignored that any increase in electricity demand, even with a massive expansion of volatile renewables, must result in an increase in fossil fuels, with no storage at the same time. you're just ignoring future shortages of resources. the eu's passenger car fleet alone would require 19 times the world's annual production of cobalt. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the result is that the european union is not able to cope with the crisis. in germany alone, 800 000 jobs depend on the combustion engine. according to the german government, by 2030, in less than eight years, 440 000 of these will have been dissolved into green wealth. the whole range of electric mobility's paediatric diseases and customer requirements - from faulty fire protection to range acceptance - is ignored. they ignore the lack of charging infrastructure, they ignore the warnings from business, industry, technology and education, and instead they insist on a unilateral political commitment to electric mobility, which will not reduce co2 emissions in the near future, because it is based on the idea of abolishing individual mobility as not only historical guarantors of prosperity and freedom, but also the abolition of the car as private property. this is the reality, at least, which has long been openly discussed in brussels. we reject this proposal. not with us.
mr. chairman, please! according to the stockholm environment institute, no country is meeting its commitments under the paris agreement, and only one tenth of all environmental goals have been achieved since 1972. the greenhouse gas emissions from economic activities in the european union returned to levels higher than before the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in the last quarter of 2021. at the same time, many europeans are asking whether, because of the war in ukraine, we should have revised our policy, or whether we have. and he expects change, deep thinking on the green deal. of course, that changed. we started to worry about the security of the power supply. some countries are building up coal reserves. yes, even germany, which the greens co-govern, is running coal and gas plants again. we're worried about the oil supply, i know how tough the negotiations have been, the sixth package of negotiations. but when it comes to long-term goals, our idealism is growing. our policy is becoming more ambitious. the only question is whether our citizens share our ambitions. the president has no doubt about that. i think he's wrong. and what if, mr. president, you're wrong?
mr president, madam president of the council dear chrysoula, what a pleasure! mr commissioner dear frans europe has this chance, this unique opportunity to become the first global player to take concrete action for a decarbonised economy by 2050. and that means a clear vote tomorrow, a clear vote to end combustion engines for new vehicles by 2035. technically, it's playable. we invest 61 billion euros every year in automobile development and research. it is certainly from an economic and social point of view that there are still questions to be answered to ensure that every european household will have the opportunity to buy this electric car. only 13% of new purchases last year, so we're way off the mark. the first thing to do is to convince people, with a series of targeted advantages, of the purchase bonuses, the incentives for the secondary market, the vat reduction, free parking, what do i know, we can ask the norwegians, they have done something about it. the other nerve of war. of course, it's the battery issue. we're getting there on manufacturing. that leaves the charging stations. in short, the challenge is great. so to conclude with birgitte nyborg from borgen, what are our options? i'd say the answer is simple. we alone have the choice of ambition. except to betray us, betray our children and renege on all our commitments.
mr. president, with the ready to 55 legislative package, we are responding to climate change on the one hand and enshrining the commitments of the climate law and also the paris agreement. we are tackling a number of areas that will affect our lives: on the one hand, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, and on the other hand, the reduction of emissions in transport, buildings, industry. agriculture contributes a significant share to both the basic agricultural activity and forestry with its subsurface. but we must not forget the social and economic implications of this package. we have to maintain technological neutrality, whether you want to talk about electricity generation, nuclear energy, or even modern internal combustion cars. we must also take care of energy poverty and the competitiveness of the european economy. but we must always remember that the rest of the world, which produces 90 percent of the emissions, must follow our efforts, or we will all fail together. but certainly, the war in ukraine shows that we do not live in an ideal world, and we must also be aware of the effects of these horrors around us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. a clear yes to climate neutrality by 2050. but to want to prescribe certain technologies or to prohibit others is the wrong way to go. we need technology openness. let us use the innovation potential that exists in europe. and measuring co2 in an exhaust is not enough, it's too short. we need a life cycle assessment, we need a well-to-wheel approach. i'm not against battery-electric vehicles. but just because a battery electric vehicle has no exhaust doesn't mean it has no co2 emissions. the emissions are going somewhere else. and an internal combustion engine can be climate neutral if it is powered by synthetic fuels. if we only allow battery electric vehicles from 2035, we will become dependent. the resources needed are provided by over 80% chinese-controlled companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and if it is true, by the way, as some people say, that synthetic fuels will be too expensive in the future, then they don't need to ban the burner. then it simply won't happen or it will only happen where you need it. without necessarily betting on a card, i think it's just plain wrong.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have a unique opportunity: europe can be the first continent to become climate neutral. as a leader in green technologies, we can create jobs in europe. we can preserve the quality of life and the environment for future generations. but, and this is unfortunately too often overlooked, all this cannot be achieved without a strong and competitive industry. the law of the land cannot lead to the goal. we need an incentive system that can do that. by trading in emission allowances instead of bans, we are providing the right incentives and rewarding those who reduce co2 emissions. everywhere i go in my country, i see entrepreneurs, and they're all on the move. but we need a long time to prepare the new targets and to change the manufacturing processes. otherwise, industry will move abroad and produce under worse conditions. in this sense, i am advocating a green deal of technological openness, a green deal that sets standards around the world.
in writing. the eu parliament calls on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. the fact is that since 2010, co2 emissions in the eu have fallen by 14%, while global emissions have increased by 11%. in 2010, the eu's share of global greenhouse gas emissions was over 10%; today it is 8.6%. at the same time, however, between 2010 and 2019, china's co2 emissions increased by 21%. china's share of global co2 emissions has thus increased from 27.5% to 30% and is expected to increase further in the next decade. emissions in other so-called developing countries are also rising steadily. conclusion: even if a de-developing eu achieves climate neutrality by 2050, global co2 emissions will have doubled by then. therefore, it should be clearly stated: the eu green deal is costing european citizens billions, both in money and in quality of life, without having any real long-term global impact. if the eu were to take climate change seriously, it would have to abolish the privileged status (non-annex 1 status) of so-called 'developing countries', including china, which exempts them from binding emission reduction targets.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the minister and president von der leyen for coming here in person for this crucial moment for our union. madam president, i said this to prime minister morawiecki when he was here, and it has to be absolutely clear. our union is based on treaties, and treaties need enforcement by a functioning justice system. if we have political puppet courts in our member states, the laws that we write here are worth nothing. now, you caved in to the pressures and blackmailing of the polish government, and we have seen absolutely zero improvement on the polish side when it comes to their justice system, and yet you still recommended the recovery plan for approval. the majority of this house, and some of your commissioners, believe this to be a huge mistake. we have little trust that the milestones you negotiated will prevent the polish government from sanctioning and dismissing judges, or flooding polish courts with political appointees; i think this actually falls behind your own criteria. colleagues, to ensure that the rule of law is upheld, we have to do two things. first, we need to ensure that our national governments do not approve the polish recovery plan until the judgments of the european court of justice and the european court of human rights are implemented. second, it needs to be clear that we will use all the tools available to us to make sure that the commission does not approve any european taxpayers’ money, as you have said, flowing to poland without real reforms taking place. and yes, this also includes the tool to force the commission to resign. we have to ensure a union where the treaties are upheld and a rule of law is in place. so, madam president, please do the right thing.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam president of the commission! i am grateful to the commission for now releasing the funds from the reconstruction fund for poland, even though it is largely german money. but the release of the funds is a good sign, because it is a sign that we have a bit more common sense again - at least in the commission - because poland has in fact promised nothing, it has defended its sovereignty against the leftist patronage from brussels. it has never been understood why the politically arbitrary appointment of judges is completely unproblematic in germany, but leads to article 7 proceedings in poland. so poland has won a complete negotiating victory, even if you don't want to admit it. but the times are such that there is little room for the left's dreams to flourish and that we should rather look at the real political requirements. and poland has not only defended europe in the days of the thousands of afghan refugees standing on the belarus-poland border, but poland is also doing something essential for the security of europe. and we should be grateful for that and not keep throwing new procedures at the pis government.
mr president, i say to the president of the commission: the commission is not even demanding the bare minimum from the warsaw government. the reforms the commission asks for will not bring the polish judiciary back in line with rule of law. and, most importantly, there are even no signs that warsaw will make a serious attempt to fulfil the milestone. the currently pending reform of the disciplinary chamber of the supreme court will not be enough to comply with ecj judgments. and we will see it, the problems that this government created go much deeper. the milestones leave major rule of law problems in poland completely unaddressed. the polish constitutional tribunal has become a puppet of the pis government. it delivers judgments at the order of the government. in two judgments already it has openly attacked the supremacy of eu law. the polish national council of the judiciary again is a puppet of the government. it appoints judges at the orders of the government. and my question is: if you accept now a new disciplinary chamber, they will also be composed by illegally appointed judges, so-called ‘non judges’, so does the commission now accept these judges as legal? only today, the remaining and continuously fighting lawyers’ and judges’ associations in poland have demanded again for the commission to start infringement proceedings in relation to the national council of the judiciary. and i call on the commissioner today to take up her duty as the guardian of the treaties. (the speaker agreed to respond to two blue-card speeches)
blue-card reply. – thank you very much for the opportunity to answer this question. i have answered it about a million times and you all know it, because we have even had a written procedure over this. the answer is no. i have never said that. i used the word, but i used it in relation with corruption in hungary. maybe if you are aware of the situation in hungary, and you know where the european money goes in hungary, what i said was we should drain … well, i can say it and i can say it in german: den sumpf austrocknen. so this is what i said. i said nothing about poland in relation to this word and you know it. mr legutko knows it and you keep repeating the same lie. i know that you will only put your own message on social media and not my reply. i’ve said that about a million times. you can even hear it if you repeat, it was a radio interview. you can even hear it.
blue-card reply. – i acknowledge very much the efforts that the polish people are doing at the moment in relation to ukrainian refugees. what polish people are doing is heroic. this has nothing to do with the question of the rule of law, and it is entirely in your hands. it is entirely in the hands of the polish government to release the money. you only have to comply to the rule of law, it’s very easy. and i’ve always said i’m very much in favour of giving money to the polish government because of the refugees, because it costs a lot. it costs the government, it costs the state, it costs the people. we should give money to poland to care for the refugees. but that is a completely different question. what poland – the polish government i have to say, because i have the greatest respect for the polish people – what the polish government is doing is destroying the independence of the judiciary, and that has been going on for five years now. so it is entirely in the hands of politicians like you to change this. and then, of course, the money will be released.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. madam president, what you have presented here sounds good at first sight. clearly three conditions that poland, the polish government, must meet. but the conclusion you have drawn from the fact that the development plan has already been approved is, in our view, the wrong conclusion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and if you follow the debate here, you will see that the right wing in the european parliament is celebrating this as a great victory and saying that it is the left wing narrative that the rule of law in poland and so on, and now the commission has shown that this is not the case at all. and usually the right-wingers here in the european parliament tell a lot of nonsense and a lot of untruths. but there seems to be a core here. because five of your commissioners, including three vice-presidents and two commissioners who are concerned with the subject, voted against your decision. you split your commission. you have also said that the decision of the european court of justice will of course remain in force and that the fines will continue to be applied. yes, what else? i wonder at the moment. it would be even better if we changed that. mrs von der leyen, madam president of the commission, i am counting on you to remain firm, to remain consistent. i voted for you as president of the commission, confident that you would be the guardian of the treaties. but that trust of mine is finally when you're not. and the moment money is transferred to poland without the rule of law being restored, my trust is gone.
i have to say, madam president, the european union was created to prevent war in europe. common laws and a common court to enforce them - this is the essence of the european peace order after the second world war. european law instead of the law of the strongest: the polish government is questioning that. and under the guise of war, the minister of justice has intensified the attacks after many years. the polish government is ignoring the ecj, it is ignoring the european treaties. and now we must ask ourselves, in this war situation, we must now put the unity of europeans above the rule of law. and i fear that if we put the rule of law before unity, we will lose both. we are not dividing poland and hungary. we are giving orbán the perfect excuse to not stick to anything in the judicial field. we are not encouraging poland to continue to take such good care of refugees, but we are encouraging minister of justice ziobro to throw out the last judges. we are not maintaining unity either, but we are getting the member states to break the rules, especially at their own expense. it can't be. we cannot be part of our response to putin's war by giving up the rule of law.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are grateful to the polish citizens for their support of the ukrainian refugees. this is solidarity and european values. but european values are not just a welcoming culture. what good is our gratitude to the people of poland if they have to fear that they will be judged by frightened judges? it's a simple question. i'm not going to ask you. should the polish citizens now be less afraid of judicial arbitrariness? if we're being honest, my question remains unanswered. the money, the money is promised. now we can outrage and wave demands for his resignation. but i'll try something basic: where's your strategy? we see a patchwork of half-hearted measures. we see a competition between institutions. we see big announcements and small steps. that has to change. the commission must sit down with this parliament and work out a common strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission must launch this against poland. it's the only way we're gonna get ahead. it's the only way to save our democracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, dear rapporteurs, on 24 february, when putin launched the war of aggression against ukraine, the world changed, and europe changed with it. this brutal invasion reminds us of some obvious facts. the peace we have enjoyed in the eu for almost 80 years should not be taken for granted. this, for european history, unprecedented peace was fought hard. it was earned by brave soldiers fighting the german nazis. now the ukrainians are fighting another fascist regime to make sure that people in europe live in peace. to succeed, they need a strong, reliable and resilient europe. the eu is more than just an economic giant. we need to learn to stand up for ourselves instead of depending mainly on our trans—atlantic partners. we should unite the efforts of every member state to guarantee our common security, the security of our closest partners and uphold the international rules—based order.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu wants to impose a common line on the ukraine conflict, but this is completely contrary to the national interests of many member states. the sanctions are completely pointless and are actually only harmful to us. the massive increase in energy prices in germany is making the already enormous costs of the energy transition, which was completely misguided, even higher. at the same time, sanctions are not only making putin's popularity among both the public and the oligarchs stronger than ever before. and according to cnn and bloomberg, russia is now making even more money from raw materials than before the war. anyone who supports these absurd sanctions is hurting our citizens and empowering putin. we, the critics of the measures, are confirmed by this as much as by the course of the war. what have the arms deliveries brought so far? more death and destruction and nothing else. the ukrainian people are the victims of a russian war of aggression which has been unnecessarily prolonged and escalated by western measures. just saying all these facts doesn't make you a putin sympathizer. i'm sure you didn't. the arms shipments are threatening to become a threat to us, too, according to interpol. meanwhile, the darknet is already selling us weapons from ukraine. the eu would do well to rethink its disastrous foreign and security policy and leave it to the national states in general in the future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure.)
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. so i'm also relying on many experts now, and many of them are of the opinion that this war will not end the way selensky wants it to. this means that ukraine will not be the same as before february 24. we have to face the facts: we cannot defeat russia as a nuclear power simply and decisively. we cannot force it to take unpredictable action and make the situation worse. for me, russia and ukraine are two sides of the same coin. i'm not taking my right hand and my left hand away. they're both corrupt states. look at the corruption index! and last year, ukraine, was selensky still in the star, in the german newspaper, that he is certainly not in the front line of the friends of peace; but today he's the great hero of peace.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 8 june 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr witold jan waszczykowski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on security in the eastern partnership and the role of the common security and defence policy (2021/2199 (ini)) (a9-0168/2022).
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. today we are discussing the eastern partnership in the field of security and defence policy. but it is really a desperation to read these applications. there is really not a single motion left in this house that is not overloaded with left-wing wishful thinking. as i said, it is really a question of security and defence policy. but the petition also talks about civil society, allegedly fighting disinformation and, of course, saving the climate. they want to set up a climate fund. but what does a climate fund have to do with security and defence policy? and then, of course, there are also calls for immediate oil and gas embargoes against russia and immediate eu and nato partnership with georgia, moldova and so on and so forth. it is a question of whether you will ever consider russian interests in any way. i'm absolutely no friend of putin, but you can understand that as much as the us probably doesn't want russian troops on the canadian border, the russians don't want american troops on the ukrainian-russian border. and that should be taken into account at some point. this is not a resolution on security partnership; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, originally, the eastern partnership was created to extend a helping hand to our european neighbours in the east, to share with them european markets, values and prosperity, to shape the europe of tomorrow together. fourteen years later, we see that economic prosperity and democratic cooperation are fragile if they are not grounded on the fundamental concept of security. while the russian invasion of ukraine brings only economic uncertainty to western europe, in the eastern partnership, it causes fear for its own survival. if ukraine falls, who will be next? this is the question frequently asked by our eastern neighbours. russia continues to occupy moldova and georgia; it has captured belarus; it makes sure that armenia and azerbaijan remain enemies. putin’s russia is the main destabilising factor in the region and beyond. europe will be only peaceful when every country on this continent can enjoy peace. this is why european security should be designed with the eastern partnership in mind.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 8 june 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
that concludes this item.
the meeting is closed and will resume tomorrow, wednesday 8 june 2022, at 9.00 a.m. with the debate on the main topic 'what makes europe' with irish taoiseach micheál martin (2022/2699(rsp)). i would like to ask for your attention and presence. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
a writer. the commission is not the eu wants to make illegal migration legal, as it announced in the eu migration pact in september 2020. this time, it wants to do so-called talent partnerships with highly corrupt countries like nigeria, pakistan and senegal. the commission's reasoning is the same as always. the eu claims that we need migrants to combat skills shortages and demographic imbalances. that is simply a lie which the commission repeats over and over again. the facts speak a different language. firstly, we have well over 13 million unemployed in the eu, who have to be paid for their living; and these are only the official figures. if the other eu member states have falsified even a fraction of the unemployment statistics since merkel, then this figure can be multiplied. so why is this potential not being exploited? quite simply, because education costs money, but the economy prefers to make more money off the backs of its own people and other countries than investing in its own unemployed. and the politics also support the economy. it is not for nothing that the commission explicitly mentions the care sector. caregivers from patriarchal and archaic cultures, where men already refuse to shake hands with women, are women now even supposed to help in the bathroom? only the commission can come up with such a brilliant idea. the more than 12 000 unemployed nurses in germany show the potential of this sector. but the working conditions are so bad that no one here is willing to be exploited. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the approach of exploiting foreigners instead so that wages do not have to be increased is deeply racist. the brain drain is added to the problem, and it is also being supplied here. the same principle as in the sovereign debt crisis is applied as always: profits are privatized, losses are socialized. because the gains, in this case the few truly skilled migrants, are used for the economy, while the losses, in other words the majority of the unusable migrants, the unskilled migrants, are borne by the welfare state and thus by the taxpayer. two-thirds of syrians in germany -- that's the skilled workers of 2015 -- are on welfare. in afghanistan, it's about 44%. so immigration in this sense is not the solution to the demographic and pension problem, but it is also exacerbating it. but this is certainly not a phenomenon confined to germany. according to a study by the university of amsterdam, migration there alone caused costs of some eur 400 billion between 1995 and 2019. the cost to a much larger country, such as germany, is, one can imagine. migrants from african countries are by far the biggest cost to the national budget. and it is from these countries that the commission now wants to recruit migrants and make illegal migration legal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the highly educated hungary shows how to combat the demographic problem by means of an adequate family policy. the advantages are obvious: the socio-cultural cohesion of society is not threatened by immigrants from largely incompatible cultures, and i can also do without terrorist attacks, so-called confused individuals, a re-issue of the cologne domplatte and - now for the moment - the violent clusters of africans at lake garda. there's no such thing in hungary or poland. why do you think that is? the eu should ensure the survival of the peoples of europe and their cultures. but with such proposals, it does just the opposite. i am not saying that we should not be concerned.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. as the vice-coordinator of my group in the committee on development, i welcome the commission's proposal, because it tackles the phenomena that are burning our fingernails: illegal migration, the fact that people cannot bring their labour into their country for lack of prospects and embark on a dangerous, sometimes deadly journey. it addresses the eu's obvious labour shortages and demographic trends, as well as the need for the eu to position itself as an attractive labour market in the world. the proposal aims to make the application procedures more rational and effective. the rights of long-term residents will be strengthened and legal residencies can be added together. i think that the talent pool and the talent partnerships presented are good ideas, because they offer above all the chance to reach not only highly qualified people, but people of all levels of education and also self-employed people, and also to better match the needs of employers with the qualifications of migrant workers - and before they leave, mr zimniok! we already have pilot projects. what can we learn from these pilot projects carried out by belgium, france, lithuania and spain with african countries? it is very important, and i agree with mr lenaers, that we have to take account of the individual starting point in the member states. they must be individually equipped. we need structure, and we need trust. it's going to take time. i believe that in a time when we want to make the eu more competitive and resilient overall, this communication sends the right signal: we need the best talent from around the world to do these things. we have to be attractive for that. i also believe that mobile people can build bridges that can help solve a wide range of problems, from disease to food security to inequality to climate change. i think we need to make migration a real mobility, and this proposal does a very good job of that.
the commission has already done so. when i drive around the country and visit factories, they tell me we're looking for people. we're looking for people who can work with us, who can train with us. and i think that all those who say, 'no, we have too many unemployed and we don't need people,' are turning a blind eye to reality. i believe that the talent partnerships that are being proposed are exactly the right thing to do, because training cooperation can benefit both countries. it can be a win-win situation for both countries. and i think that in the long run, we need a talent pool -- a talent pool that immigrants can apply to. and then the member states can say: 'yes, we need a certain skill, a certain amount of labour in our labour market, and then we will bring them in and we will integrate them into our country.' i believe that we must focus on organising these legal pathways into labour migration if we are to succeed in reducing illegal migration to europe. i would ask you to deal with the content of the topics, to deal with the content of the proposals. that disgusting blue-brown sauce you're spilling here has no place in this house.
mr president, similar to mr oetjen, when i talk to sme founders or start-up founders, what i often hear is that they really need talent as one of the key success factors. talent is a key success factor for european competitiveness, but we punch way below our weight. why is that? because we have 27 completely separate labour markets still. it’s not as attractive as if we had one big labour market because we have these harmful and hurtful narratives that we just heard again here in this house, and the very closed idea of what an identity can actually look like in europe. and we have an insufficient equalisation of rights which needs to be strengthened. so i want to thank the commission to bring forward this new package. i think there are very good elements in there when you look at the long-term residence directive. we need to increase european mobility. we need to make it easier to get access to a long-term residence permit. and i want to especially thank you for the talent pool, because this is an idea that i brought to the commission two years ago, so i’m very happy that it has now been taken up. i think it’s really cool that international talent now has the chance to express their interest to work in europe and then be matched with european employers. we have to work on that, make it interoperable with what the private sector is already proposing so that we can really attract talent to europe and make europe more attractive. so let’s get to work.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote is a first real step towards the european parliament's right of initiative. i would like to thank paulo rangel and all the members of the afco committee, which i have the honour of chairing. for years we have been insisting that this parliament should be a parliament with full powers, as are parliaments all over the world. if we want, after this global crisis, with the war now and the coronavirus and the lehman brothers crisis before, to have a europe that is strongly political, with citizens who feel it as part of their lives, as an umbrella to protect them in times of difficulty, we need more democratic institutions, institutions closer to the citizens. a parliament which does not have the right of initiative is a monk's parliament. so i think we must have the courage to go forward in this direction, in a comprehensive framework of reforms, because it cannot be just the right of initiative. i personally believe that we must get to the direct election of the president of the commission. finally, the president of the commission and the president of the council should be united, as many other reforms should be. the vote by unanimity is a vote that blocks our institutions. the citizens will risk never seeing europe as a real political actor. that is why this choice we are making is really an impulse for change to have a more democratic europe and thus closer to the citizens.
it is inconceivable that a parliament representing 500 million people, the only european institution directly elected by the citizens, should not have the power to propose fully autonomous draft laws. the european union is certainly an unusual organization, a genuine political experiment in constant evolution because it has to adapt to a changing world. but now we need to take it a step further. tomorrow we shall vote on a resolution calling for the treaties to be amended and for the convention for a new europe to be launched. and we shall also be voting on this crucial report, which is linked to the european parliament's right of initiative. a key element in rebalancing the institutional balance in favour of the citizens with regard to the commission and the council. this was a request made by the citizens themselves at the conference on the future of europe. a commitment we must honor. in the document we put a real clear negotiating mandate: the european parliament must have a full and direct right of legislative initiative at the next revision of the treaties. but at the same time it is essential to strengthen the existing arrangements whereby the european parliament exercises an indirect right of initiative. president von der leyen has promised to always respond to the european parliament's requests in our own-initiative legislative resolutions. we must demand more, we must have the legal guarantee that this will happen and that is what we are asking for in the request for a revision of the 2010 framework agreement. conclusion on the issue of the rule of law initiative procedure under article 7 of the treaty. it is a scandal that the repeated actions of the european parliament should be allowed to fall into the hands of the national bureaucracies of the member states, which are making themselves co-responsible for the abuse of law and rights. this is all the more reason to put the european parliament back at the centre of not only legislative but also political activity, in order to protect the fundamental rights of citizens throughout the union. it's time to change things.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a parliament proposes and adopts laws and controls the executive, otherwise it is not a parliament. europe too often pretends. we pretend to have a foreign policy, but we don't. we pretend to elect a fully functioning parliament and we don't have one. this assembly must become a parliament in its own right, with a wide range of powers of initiative, as citizens demanded at the conference on the future of europe. it is necessary and urgent, especially at a time when we want to build a europe of power. it is a question of democratic legitimacy that is all the more indispensable at a time when we must regain control, throughout our union, over areas that were once the preserve of states: defence, borders, security, the rule of law. it is also a response to the need to strengthen the bonds of trust and political responsibility between citizens and the union. we want a more democratic european union, and therefore we want a european union with a competing power of initiative of the parliament. this power will also balance the de facto gradual erosion of the commission's right of initiative by the european council, which we have witnessed in the past few years, powerless as we are. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we need more democracy and less 'herpacracy' in our union. let's not pretend here either. the european council must give the union political direction, not regularly encroach on the legislative prerogatives of the parliament and the council. we must stop distorting our system. the commission's de facto monopoly on legislative initiative no longer exists, mr maroš, and it is no longer justified. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr paulo rangel, for his excellent work on this dossier, which sends a strong signal. the time has come to amend the treaties and to give parliament a general and direct right of initiative. in this period of great change, a democratic re-foundation of europe is necessary. this is what our fight is about, and we're gonna win it together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, you all have said – and i think it’s absolutely clear – that we need the right to initiative. i just want to make this very haptical. this whole house is built on the trust of citizens in their elected officials. we need to live up to this trust. that means that we can do two things that all parliamentarians should be able to do: one is that we are actually able to propose laws and also amend laws that already exist; the second is that we can vote for the european commission. then we can transfer the trust that citizens gave us into the actual representative democracy that we should be. i think tomorrow we have a good chance to start this process of treaty change to bring all of these ideas of a better parliamentary democracy into the european union. i’m very happy that we are going this way.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, should the european parliament be granted a right of direct and general legislative initiative? it all depends on how you see the european union. if, as rapporteur paulo rangel has said, we want to turn the union into a state, then we must do so in such a way that the european parliament has powers comparable to those of a national parliament. but if, like me, you think that the union should remain a mere international organisation, then there can be no question of it. in this view, it is the council, as the representative of the member states, which must have the legislative initiative, as already provided for in certain areas by articles 76, 121 and 241 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission's legislative initiative must therefore be withdrawn, since it is a body that is not democratically entitled to exercise it, but it must be transferred to the council and not to the european parliament. for me, the european parliament is only the deliberative body of an international organization and not the representative of a sovereign european people which does not exist.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i agree with the rapporteur that a parliament without the right of legislative initiative is indeed a parliament that is incomplete, that is, that is defective. but the european parliament is not a parliament in the sense that parliaments are parliaments in parliamentary democracies. it is not a super-parliament, as some of my colleagues believe, and it is not above national parliaments. the european union is not a state but a union of states, and we meps are the representatives of our peoples and are elected in our countries. we are not representing an abstract europe. the european parliament is not, and should not be, a parliament in the strict sense of the word, especially since it is dominated by views which are detached from the social and cultural context, and it is wrongly believed that the european parliament, ex-definite, acts in the abstract interest of all europeans. this is not a place for substantive debate, most of the time. rarely does it involve a real exchange of ideas, the meaning of which is understood and considered. for these reasons, i believe that the european parliament should not have the right to legislate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me make two preliminary remarks. firstly, i would like to support mr rangel in saying that it is critical that this debate is again held before empty seats. we must now finally succeed in this parliament in having debates in the presence of our colleagues so that there can be an exchange. secondly, mr president, i would ask you to discuss in the bureau the fact that the commission and the council cannot always extend the speaking time in this way. today it was only a relatively short one, but that means that we do not allow any interventions, and we need that for a lively debate; the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was not as strong today, but it was basic. on the file, colleagues, i would like to thank paulo rangel, as the rapporteur, for an excellent report that is up for a vote here tomorrow. the european parliament definitely needs a right of initiative. but my experience, colleagues, is that we don't need it so much, primarily, to initiate new legislation; we need it rather to amend and repeal existing legislation, because when i am in my constituency and citizens tell me that the regulation has gone too far, or that a citizen is perhaps disproportionately affected by one or two provisions, then the only thing we can do as members of parliament is to write a letter to the commission. and for that reason, i think the most important argument for having a right of initiative is that we can amend and revoke legislation.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, wow, the headline of this resolution already says it all. you're talking about a global threat. it just always has to be superlatives with you, doesn't it? promoters of this debate should read the treaties of the european union first. this parliament has no competence to lecture sovereign countries on how they should govern themselves. the usa is no longer a colony ruled from europe. didn't you know that? so if their supreme court overturns roe v. wade as being unconstitutional, yeah, they can do that! if they decide that their federal law no longer protects the abortionists from criminal prosecution, yeah, they can do that too! and if they put decisions on how to run maternal healthcare, abortion choices, back to democratically elected leaders in their 50 states, guess what? they can do that too! and if those states then believe life in the womb is worth protecting, as the un convention on the rights of children states by the way, yep, they can do that too! you know what your problem is? you just won't take ‘no’ for an answer. you will simply not accept anyone not in support of your dystopian brave new world agenda. as seen here today earlier, by the way, if a vote doesn't go your way, all hell breaks loose and the vote will be repeated until the result suits you. so much for democracy in this house. so whenever you are hyperventilating about some sort of a ‘global threat’, what you are really fighting against is the collapse of your ridiculous utopia in which humans are a malleable mass. this is despicable and it's dehumanising. and i am ashamed to have to say this in this house.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are discussing a very difficult moral issue today: the question of abortion. it is not for nothing that politics and society have been struggling for decades to find a position, a solution. the issue is polarizing like hardly any other. it's highly emotional and unfortunately massively ideologically charged. i am concerned to see that both camps are becoming more and more radical. this is at the expense of pregnant women in real emergency situations. i want to be very clear: abortion is not a contraceptive. every abortion always means the end of a life already begun. it must never become a routine. i would also like to say that we must not judge in a general way and must always look at the specific case. as important as the protection of unborn life is the physical and mental integrity of the expectant mother. i've been dealing with this a lot. i believe that criminal law is not a place to give answers. but neither is ideology or standardization. instead of devoting our energies to ideological battles on this issue, we should direct them strictly towards helping and advising on an individual basis.
dear frances, there is a blue-card, are you willing to accept it? i just look from whom it is coming. it’s from malin björk – and sorry, really with a heavy heart i have to ask you to remove scarfs that are symbols, so please follow that. so, are you ready to accept, frances?
blue-card speech. – ms fitzgerald, i know that you have played a very important role in ireland, where we never thought that we would have that positive development. you managed in ireland to legalise abortion care in a country where everyone thought it would be impossible; it was so conservative. we still see today in this chamber that in the right wing groups there is a lot of resistance. that’s where the resistance to abortion care and abortion rights for women comes from. so what is your best advice to convince the whole of this chamber? because i would like to be here in the next vote we have and to have much stronger support also from the right wing. so i would like to hear your advice on that.
i have to say, madam president, violence has many faces. the denial of age-appropriate sexual education is a form of violence. the denial of contraceptives is a form of violence. the denial of medical care during and after childbirth is a form of violence. the withholding of information on abortion is a form of violence. the denial of medical benefits in the form of abortion is a form of violence. a society that is medically capable, but does not support women who want to, such a society is a violent society. a society that clearly opposes forced marriage, that clearly opposes forced sterilization, but does not clearly oppose forced pregnancy, and that denies abortion is equivalent to forced pregnancy, is not a free society. we stand here fighting for a free society, not just in europe, but for a free society in the whole world. it is usually a male right-wing force that wants to restrict us, and it is usually a male right-wing force that believes that it can make policy on the bodies of women. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question under the 'blue card' procedure)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i'll make this short. i just heard your speech, and i'm very surprised. we are living in europe. we have a certain set of values in europe. do you not think that the right to life, that life in general, must be the highest value in europe, higher than the right of self-determination of a person? where do we begin when we put a person's right to self-determination above the right to life? where does it begin, where does it end? which pandora's box are we opening? i do not want to talk about america here, because as you have rightly recognised, we here in europe have problems in solving this rationally. it is up to us, the politicians and the politics, up to you, to create the conditions here so that abortions are simply no longer necessary in 2022. that's it. if they are still necessary, you can check that, and that's okay in that respect; but i say and i maintain that we live in a europe today where we have the full possibilities to preserve life, to protect life, and not to destroy life. that's a crime, destroying lives.
in writing. abortion is a highly sensitive subject and a drastic procedure that, the later it is performed, the closer it comes to murder. to label them part of health care, as you do, is a left-wing extremist view that hides a frightening image of humanity. of course, banning abortion altogether, so that women feel compelled to abort in secret in backyards, is not the answer. abortion is an issue for which there is no perfect solution, let alone one that applies to all. instead, it is necessary to discuss it again and again in order to find the best possible solution at the moment. this is something that each society has to sort out for itself. it cannot be the eu's job to decide for everyone, not for all eu member states and certainly not for all countries in the world. fortunately, the judiciary in the united states, unlike the judiciary in germany or poland, is still largely independent. i therefore have full confidence in the supreme court and also in american society to resolve its moral dilemmas on its own without lectures from us, who should rather hold our own noses.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. even if people say for a century that the earth is flat, it will not be. it is also true that the chinese dictators claim that the closed camps in the xinjiang region are educational institutions which are then voluntarily visited. a mockery, given the current evidence. the massive leak we got two weeks ago, we have evidence. we have images of the clear language. we see mental as well as physical violence being perpetrated. we see torture. we have sight of assault rifles. we see orders to shoot people, in reports. these images and evidence will never, ever be erased from the history of mankind and also from the history of china. in our century of freedom, the uighur people are being systematically oppressed in an experiment. forced sterilization is an attempt to eradicate the uighurs by stealth. this is barbaric and inhuman. this is a sneaking genocide of our century. unthinkable if we can't get this thing stopped. it is unthinkable that the machinations of the dictators in china could become a blueprint for other dictators on our planet. and so i appeal to all of you to vote tomorrow for our joint urgency resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the xinjiang files now provide new images of the horror. for many, many years china has been committing massive human rights violations against the uighurs and also against other muslim minorities and tibetans. the eu, the member states and european companies must now face the consequences, because human rights are universal and not a private matter for china. the consequences are a clear identification of human rights violations, a new eu sanctions package and further action by the council, the g7 and g20 member states. we do not want products made by chinese forced labour in europe, nor products made by chinese companies which have forced labour in production. this means that companies like basf and vw have a clear mandate to withdraw from xinjiang, and europe is increasingly disconnected from the chinese market. european industry needs to review its supply chains and find new ways of not relying on raw materials from china. we must now take this into account in the eu's industrial and raw materials strategy. in no other city in europe do so many uighurs live as in munich, where i come from. we cannot and must not tolerate human rights violations in xinjiang in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. hopes were high in the country after years of georgia being the model for many states in the post-soviet space. the fight against corruption, the modernisation of society and the reform of the police - all of these were characteristic of the country. the ability to transform a politicised justice sector into functioning rule of law institutions should be a focus of the government from 2012 onwards. we invested a lot of money here in the eu in these hopes of rule of law reform. in the end, we must admit that the opposite has been achieved. instead of taking the lead in the reform movement, all the pro-western claims of the government had been swept away. the eu's trade agreement with the united states has not been fully exploited. a decline in the corruption index, but especially in the freedom of the press. instead of protecting journalists, they are being attacked. the case of nika gwaramia may be a particularly stark one in terms of the violation of the rule of law, but it is certainly no exception. it is painful to see this happening as a great friend of the country.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. when we talk about the freedom of the press in georgia, i wonder what kind of freedom there is if georgia is only ranked 89th out of 180 in the ranking of freedom of the press; and if recently, as mentioned, cameraman alexander laschkarawa was found dead in his apartment after filming a counter-demonstration; and when nika gwaramia, former minister of justice and prominent tv presenter, was sentenced to three and a half years in prison for owning an opposition channel. we hear about these cases, and my intern, who's from georgia, tells me about many others. but we are still negotiating with georgia as if nothing had happened and we are trying to give this country the status of eu candidate. this is a slap in the face to all the western balkan countries which are applying for membership, and which have made much more progress than georgia, which has fallen far behind. yes, let's help this country. it needs it. but let's not push it into a procrastination bed. it would do them and us more harm than good.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we greens are happy that the international procurement instrument has the strength to ensure that third—country operators cannot get favoured when they use unfair practices, like, for example, in the case with china. a lot of colleagues said it already: the instrument is an important piece of the toolbox to rebalance economic relations with countries like china in a way that benefits the eu. however, we greens are a bit disappointed that the commission, most of the member states and some political groups have not been supportive of an exemption beyond least—developed countries. procurement is an important tool for poorer countries to steer their industrial development, and this is also what the eu member states have been allowed to do for decades. another point: social and environmental dumping is also an unfair practice. during the negotiations with the council, it became clear that certain provisions on social and environmental standards in the eu procurement directive have never been used, and i think this is really a missed opportunity. i think the eu and the member states have to get serious about applying the rules on truly sustainable procurement, and those rules should also be part of reciprocity considerations with third countries.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the tragedy of pentecost in nigeria raises fears of a new outbreak of violence in this country, which is divided in two: muslims in the north and christians in the south. the attacks by a gang of fanatical criminals who use religion to cover up their crimes affect all ethnic and religious groups in the nation. these killings often correspond to ethnic rivalries, poverty, socio-economic and territorial claims, on interreligious grounds. there have been multiple attacks and kidnappings over the past decade, with women and children being the primary victims. they are raped, and the abducted are treated as sexual objects. the jihadist group boko haram has targeted churches during this conflict in an attempt to divide the population. the security problem remains a major challenge in africa's most populous country, which has the continent's largest economy and many resources. we condemn these massacres and encourage christians and muslims to work hand in hand for peaceful cohe­sion, in order to put an end to the instability in the country. the extent to which investment and job creation for young people could help to change the political landscape and to soothe the social climate remains one of the issues we could discuss with our partners in nigeria at our next meetings with acp members.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was horrified to learn of the massacre at st. francis xavier catholic church in owo, nigeria, where more than 50 people were killed in a terrorist attack. it is difficult for me to put into words my confusion and sadness. while we were here celebrating pentecost, the service in owo ended in bloodshed. religious persecution and terrorism are widespread throughout the world, including, unfortunately, members of all religions, but especially christians, of whom over 350 million are subject to discrimination and persecution. this must be brought into the public consciousness much more than before. the european states and the european commission are called upon to do the same. the european union must urgently fill the post of special representative for religious freedom, which has been vacant for months. i am sorry to say that the commission has not been able to reach a decision on the matter, but i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights.
in writing. nigeria, africa's most populous country with over 200 million people, has been struggling for over a decade with an insurgency in the northeastern part of the country by extremist islamist rebels from boko haram and its offshoot islamic state of west african province. the extremists, who the un estimates have killed over 35,000 people, are fighting to impose sharia law and stop education based on european models. i would like to express my shock and anger at the attack in owo, a small town located about 49 kilometers from the capital of ondo state, akure. the sunday attack took place during mass on the day of the descent of the holy spirit, a major catholic holiday celebrated after easter. the attackers opened fire and detonated explosives at st. francis xavier catholic church, killing at least 50 people - including women and children - and injuring dozens of others before fleeing the scene. this attack was clearly a terrorist attack, and its scale and brutality suggest that it was carefully planned. i call on the nigerian government to take action to ensure the safety of christians in their homeland. i believe that the perpetrators of this terrible act of terror against the church will be swiftly apprehended and brought to justice.
in writing. in recent days, most of us have heard of the shameful assault and murder of christians attending sunday mass during the feast of the descent of the holy spirit in southwestern nigeria. although christians make up about 50% of nigeria's population, christians have been kidnapped, murdered and discriminated against on numerous occasions in recent years. from october 2020 to september 2021, more than 4,000 people were killed in religious violence in the country. in a recent question to the commission, i asked what action the union intends to take to ensure freedom of worship for christians in this country and what it intends to do to ensure that such tragic incidents, which are based on religious violence, do not happen again. i would like to stress that the call to defend the rights of christians around the world is a call to defend the values and foundations on which the eu was built. for this reason, we members of the european parliament must support christians and strive to improve their lot in the world. as one of the initiators of this debate today, i would like to say that christians living in nigeria are not alone. i hope this debate will mobilize the nigerian authorities to take decisive action to punish the perpetrators of the brutal attacks and to curb the activities of islamic extremist groups in the country.
in writing. throughout the world, we face unprecedented aggression against christians, with 360 million christians facing persecution and about 100,000 dying for their faith each year. these figures are worrying and it is necessary for the european union to take strong action at international level to increase the protection of christians and to guarantee their right to religious freedom. in fact, there are 76 countries where the situation is particularly difficult for christians. the year 2021 was the worst year on record in terms of the scale and intensity of violence against christians, with radical islam and communism being the main sources of violence. discrimination also increases for reasons such as the lack of willingness or ability of governments to protect christian communities for political or religious reasons, which contributes to impunity for perpetrators of persecution. the problem is also the indifference of politicians in the international arena. christians, who make up 46.4 percent of the population, have been killed regularly in nigeria this year. islamic extremism has become a source of persecution of christians in this country. the violence is particularly severe in northern nigeria, where christians are killed and discriminated against in hospitals, schools, and workplaces. christian girls are being kidnapped by muslim radicals who want to marry them off to followers of islam. the building of churches is forbidden. the eu institutions and countries should take decisive and all-out action, including sanctions and military action, to defend persecuted christians. we europeans have a moral obligation to help those who need it.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today in strasbourg we have seen one of the most shameful pages of recent european politics. the whole right, from berlusconi's ppe to the salvini and meloni groups, together with the liberals in renzi's group, have decided to protect the interests of the fossil fuel and polluting industry lobbies and to blow up the social climate fund, a fund aimed at helping the most vulnerable families and small entrepreneurs, those most exposed to the rises in utility bills and fuel. we are talking about more than 40 billion euros, of which more than 10% would have gone to italy, resources that would have financed subsidies and incentives for the weaker sections of the population. what we were asking for was that the cost of this fund be paid by the polluters and those who are making huge extra profits from the surcharges, that is, by reforming the ets system. but the centre-right and liberals have undermined the reform and have effectively blocked the social fund. they are the reason why the lobbyists are celebrating today and will think that they can continue to increase their extra profits. but let us not be complacent and let us continue to fight so that the poorest families do not pay the price of a failed economic model for the planet and for the entire population.
madam president, i just want to give comment on the co2 emissions for cars and vans. this file is one of the many jigsaw pieces that makes up the european green deal. of course, on its own, it seems isolated and its goals sometimes challenging, but coupled with the alternative fuels infrastructure regulation and national measures to improve access to high—quality public transport, it is an important step towards a less polluting and healthier transport system. i supported the most ambitious targets on the table today because we need to push industries to meet their ambitions. we need to ensure that electric vehicles enter the market at scale in the coming years so that they become more affordable and develop into a second—hand market that will make fossil—free mobility accessible to all.
that concludes the point.
the sitting is closed and will resume tomorrow, thursday 9 june, at 9.00 a.m. with a debate on the request for a convention to review the treaties. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the first item on the agenda concerns statements by the council and the commission on the request for a meeting to review the treaties (2022/2705 (rsp)).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you, good morning to everybody. dear colleagues, you know that in the conference on the future of europe, we gave our citizens a central role. we have heard their voice, and now it’s up to each institution to deliver on the follow-up of the conference according to the commitment in the joint declaration at the beginning of the conference. follow-up is a shared responsibility. the commission is ready to play its part in turning proposals into concrete action. next week already, the commission is putting forward a communication that charts out the way for the follow—up of the conference outcome in areas that fall under the commission’s remit. there is already a lot the institutions can do and some of the proposals can be implemented rather swiftly. the first new commission proposal responding to the final report will be announced by president von der leyen in her state of the union address in september. recent examples show that even in the midst of a worldwide pandemic or a war, europe is able to deliver on areas that are not explicitly provided for in the treaties. we have procured billions of vaccines for europeans and worked on kick-starting the economy through next generation eu, to mention just two examples. beyond this, we could go further. as you say in your resolution, europe could play a greater role, for example, in health and in defence, and in some key areas, unanimity voting does not make sense and we need to be able to move faster. the european parliament is now on the path to use its powers to call for treaty change and the commission is ready to play its part. we have to find the most direct way to follow up on the conclusions of the conference, either by using the full limits of what can be done within the treaties or, if needed, changing the treaties where necessary. and now it is delivery time. that’s all for the beginning.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. that's a sad picture this morning. the whole purpose of the event is to call on the french presidency to convene a convention to amend the treaty this month. and she's obviously so ambitious that she can't even make it to the meeting on time. it's a shame, you know. we agree that the european union must become more capable of action. we need a paradigm shift from protecting each other to protecting each other in the world. we must become a global player in trade and investment protection, security and defence. we need more common research and development. we want an energy union without deindustrialising the european continent, but making it climate neutral. we are talking about a framework here. that is why it is wrong to try to impose political ideologies. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. and whoever excludes from the outset the question of treaty amendments and article 48 - which is about transferring more powers to the european union or transferring powers back to the member states - ladies and gentlemen of this house, will fail in the same way. this is not the spirit of schuman, de gasperi and helmut kohl. i have had great doubts in the last few days as to whether the actors in this house have really internalized the spirit of community that we need to be able to act to change the treaties. the demands on macron are clear: not just to make speeches, but to become concrete. that is why it has not signed this resolution, but will vote in favour of it. what we want is to rebuild europe, to be able to act in the world and to be united in diversity in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are here today to discuss a historic decision, namely that the european parliament is clearly taking on the responsibility that mrs šuica has also mentioned: to say responsibility, we must now mandate a convention and we must launch it. not because we have nothing else to do, but because we see what serious times we are in. and we made a promise to the citizens we had gathered, who had been working for months, that we would take their proposals seriously and that we would not say: 'ok, we will invite them, let them make some suggestions, and then we will do business as usual'. and that is why it is important that we also clearly identify the areas which are important and which are important to the citizens: namely a health union, an energy union. but they also want a stronger social and democratic europe. and if you equate social europe with socialism, you have understood nothing and perhaps you should invite jean-claude juncker to join us - one of those who have really pushed social europe forward in the last decade and who have understood how important this element of the european integration process is. but today's topic is responsibility. and that means, in fact, that we did not decorate the christmas tree with all the wishes you can imagine, but we listened to what the citizens said, who clearly wrote us in the register. one point is essential: we are unanimously destroying this european project because we are incapable of action, because we are incapable of reaction. and that is why we have put emphasis on this in this resolution, together. and that means that what happened to hungary at the european council last week cannot happen again in the future. that is why we said that the subject of sanctions is important here, to ensure that in future we really manage to decide on the main policy areas by qualified majority. and i think it is important that this time we actually carry this resolution with the amendments across the threshold with a large majority, because only if we send a clear, strong signal to the european council, to the council, to the member states will we succeed here. and that is why it is a pity that the french presidency is not here. but i hope she gets the message that's being given here. i can only ask you all to take up this responsibility, this historic opportunity: a large majority for this resolution.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, for those who are still doubting if they are going to vote for this resolution, let me maybe recall what happened last week in europe concerning the sanctions. the americans, when the war started on 24 february, were capable immediately, three weeks after that, to launch – by an executive order of president biden – an embargo on oil, on coal and on gas. and they did that on 8 march, so the war started 24 february, and 8 march, by an executive order, the americans were ready to stop the funding of the war machine of putin. you have to compare that with the way we in europe have handled that same issue. for us, it has taken three months to come to a conclusion. it was on, i think, 4 may that ms von der leyen said, ‘yes, i have a proposal’ – two months after the americans, and then it has taken three weeks, nearly a month, to decide on it, and it will be implemented by the end of the year. and there will be an exception for a number of member states, especially for hungary, because of unanimity and the veto right. that is the reality of today. europe is not fit for the world of tomorrow. the world of tomorrow is not a world of nation states, dear colleagues. the world of tomorrow is a world of empires. whether you want it or not, china is an empire; india is an empire; the us is an empire; russia wants to be an empire. in such a world, only a european union that is not based on unanimity, not based on veto rights, not based on such an instrument can survive. therefore, i think we did a good thing to ask for a convention, article 48, and to concentrate on the main issue that blocks the union for the moment – and that is this unanimity rule, the veto right that exists today in our treaties. i think the two articles that we have mentioned are not the only articles i hope that we as parliament will want to reform, but we will have the chance to discuss that in the constitutional affairs committee. but at least giving up the veto right in sanctions, creating a passerelle clause that was never used – it was created in the nice treaty – it has never been used since the moment that it was in the treaties. by launching a possibility to have, with qualified majority, a passerelle clause, i think that it is absolutely needed to survive with the european union in this 21st century. so i hope for a massive ‘yes’ for the call for this convention to make that a reality.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, it’s surprisingly easy to say why the eu needs reform in four words: orbán has a veto. one ‘no’ from a dictator can block what 450 million europeans want. and what might have been conceived initially to protect minority rights has now become a tool for extortion. vetoes are misused for extra cash. vetoes are misused to destroy the rule of law in the european union. today, we will start to change this, because we in the european parliament want to change the treaties. we want to fix the most important design flaw of the european union and to get rid of vetoes. not because we here in the parliament want this, but because european citizens want this with an overwhelming majority. they told us over and over again at the conference. and when change is coming, well, there is resistance. and to get to this historic moment today of triggering article 48 was incredibly hard work. but the next few weeks are going to get even harder because some governments do not want to listen to what their citizens want. they do not want european democracy. they want to call the shots. and i think, in this situation, it’s important to say their names. sweden, do you really want to prevent better social rights for all europeans as inscribed in a social progress protocol? latvia, do you think it’s a good idea that the dictator in hungary has a veto on sanctions and threatens your security as a border state of russia? denmark, do you really think it’s a good idea that one country can ensure that apple only pays 0.05% taxes? of course, they’ll tell you that’s not what they want, but that is what they are doing. they are preventing what europeans want: a better europe. and after trump, after brexit, after the pandemic, and now with war, it is time for reform. we need to change the treaties, because i really fear we might not get a second chance.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the proposal for a council regulation on the european union's external relations. the european parliament has been the driving force behind the creation of a european union, and it is the european parliament that is the driving force behind the creation of a european union. he forgot that the united states is a gas exporter and when sanctions were announced they immediately announced that they would increase gas exports to europe by a factor of ten this year. the european union is using every crisis, including the coronavirus crisis and the war in ukraine, to stealthily reinforce and accelerate this development. the conference on the future of europe was a glorious theatre performance and in fact a great failure. a few hundred citizens showed up for the conference and were then manipulated by professionals at the meetings and directed towards a list of proposals that are almost a copy of the most far-reaching unifying projects of the unitary state. the conference then gave the liberal-left and green majority of the european parliament the opportunity to promote these proposals as the only and irreversible way forward for cooperation on the european continent. this majority has called itself the 'pro-european majority' since yesterday's failed vote. anyone who disagrees is an 'anti-european minority' or, in short, an 'extreme right-wing' member. the id group rejects these so-called results of the conference and remains committed only to free and negotiated european cooperation in which the member states and peoples are not deprived of their rights. european standards cannot be imposed on citizens whose member state has not agreed to them. the emphasis should be on the return of power to the member states. we therefore only benefit from amendments to the treaties if they provide for this possibility. we want to cooperate in europe, but europe must change and not become worse than it is.
mr president, the cofe was a pretence to invite debate and participation, but the priority was not to upset the status quo. for example, when participation delivered an initiative with the second highest level of citizen support, as the clarity mechanism for self-determination, it was simply brushed away ungraciously. but once we start debating the future of old europe, it becomes obvious that jean monnet’s dream of the union of peoples is watered down every day. and unless the treaties are revised, our future as a democracy is doomed. citizens’ rights are eroded while the eu institutions just look away, and fundamental rights are just another issue bargained off by governments behind closed doors. something as basic as language diversity cannot be left to the will of member states that often just want minority languages extinct. (the speaker uses a non-eu language)how come the catalan language spoken by 11 million european citizens – european citizens! – cannot be used in this chamber? this is not a union of the peoples. the european union must cease to be a cocktail of governments. eu institutions must advance in democratic accountability. we need change.
mr president, dear vice-president, and i would like to say dear minister, but unfortunately the council decided to be absent in this debate. they decided: they are not here.
mr president, he’s coming to the debate. the problem is that his train was delayed by 50 minutes.
from france? it’s a shame.
i would remind all colleagues that when they ask for the floor on the procedure, mr verhofstadt, they ask for the president. secondly, i would like to remind everyone that at the beginning of the sitting i noted that, according to the information i have from the services, mr clement beaune has a delay with his train and he is suggesting that he will arrive 20 to 25 minutes late. this is for evaluation, but i gave it at the beginning of the meeting. the 25 minutes are up. i hope the council representative will be here any minute. thank you, sir.
mr president, i have to say again: if you want to have a debate on this issue, the council has to do everything to be present. and that is the truth, because this is an image that shows very well what is the commitment with this, with the conference. because in other debates, they don’t have these kinds of problem. and so i would like to say that, because we have to be fair, the ones that are clearly in favour of a convention, not only for changing the unanimity rule in the case of sanctions – it’s a good example, but we are aiming for something much more ambitious, in my opinion. and so, we cannot reduce our debate to this issue of sanctions. it’s a good example of things that don’t work so well, but we have to give to europe again a new inspiration of democratic legitimacy. that should be our main task. and so i would like to say i praise the commission because they are present. i regret that the council have this unfortunate coincidence and cannot be here at this moment. but let us see. we will see. today we’ll approve this resolution, i hope, and then we will see what is the attitude and the commitment of the french presidency; that we can see in 15 days.
i gave the floor to mr weimers, even though he was not present at the time, because i think it is right and fair that the bureau should show flexibility in such important debates to have the voices of all the political groups represented. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
i would remind you that now that the list of registered speakers on behalf of the political groups has been completed, there is the possibility of a request card for catch-the-eye and so on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, madam vice-president, thank you for your words. my dear guy, you said earlier that europe was not ready to face the world of tomorrow. i'm sorry, but i think it's safe to say she's not ready to face the world today. i imagine - and we should all imagine - what the situation would be in europe and in ukraine if donald trump had been re-elected in the united states. the united states had decided not to help ukraine, not to help europe in the face of mr putin's invasion. we must therefore ask ourselves the question: how capable is europe of defending its values, its interests and its own territory? i've heard a lot of things and i'm going to be very, very quick about it. i have heard colleagues talk about a more socialist europe, a europe that is too neoliberal, a europe that is too much of this, too much of that... but that is not the point. the question today is: do we want a strong europe, a europe that can defend its values, a europe that can influence the world around it? do we want a more democratic europe? if that is what we want, then, ladies and gentlemen, let us not ask ourselves the question: let us vote to open this convention. see you tomorrow!
mr president, some of the conclusions from the cofe picture a more ambitious europe that to be turned into reality requires changes in the treaties. and this demand for change comes at a very timely moment where several crises are clearly reinforcing the case for more europe. now the question is whether the conference’s efforts, particularly those from the citizens’ component, are going to be in vain, or they will mean a boost to more integration and reshape our union into a stronger, more efficient and accountable democracy, better fit for today’s world. now we, the parliament, have the historical opportunity to ask for the revision of the treaties for the convening of a convention that brings about much-needed changes, such as the end of vetoes. and this will be essential, not only to honour the legacy of the conference, but also to better protect european values and to advance a more efficient and, why not, a more federal europe.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i've fought so long to be able to speak from the pulpit, and now we're back to this weird stuff. mr bourgeois, you have addressed, and this is what i still can't quite get my head around: we need a common border guard and we need to be stronger. and we need to be stronger in the trade agreements. but this is precisely the point for which we need treaty amendments, because we are simply not strong enough as a pan-european body, because the european union has almost no competence in common border protection. in the case of trade agreements, in order to be strong together, to represent our interests, to set our european standards in the world, we cannot always wait for the slowest because some small group of interests in austria does not want a trade agreement. that's why we need to change the contract. well, that's the part of the argument i don't quite understand.
blue-card speech. – dear colleague, you spoke of the european citizens initiative and the 1 million signatures one can gather. i wanted to ask you if you’re aware that, unfortunately, the european citizens initiative doesn’t currently allow to propose any changes to the treaty, and how you suggest to deal with that? don’t we need a convention, then, to actually change the possibility for the european citizens initiative precisely to make those kind of changes that you talked about?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mrs laporte: you have to decide. we have now engaged the citizens 800 randomly selected citizens. they see this approach as not involving the citizens, but that is not the reality. and if we say now, after we have involved the citizens, 'no, we do not like the result and therefore we do not want to take it into account', you are doing exactly what you are accusing the european union of doing here: you are not taking the citizens seriously. i'd like your answer to that.
mr president, i think the first thing that a reformed europe should do is improve our train system. colleagues, i want to take one second to thank those individuals who had the foresight to build this union that we are currently debating in. i think it’s a huge achievement that we have this chance to debate here together. but since the founding, a lot has changed and we have discussed it and heard it here. there are a lot of topics that we need to work on here together in the european union so the ‘what’ has changed. but also we realise the examples of the ‘how’ that need to be improved. we have heard about the veto. i would add, in general, that we should also improve the council as a whole, maybe abolish it and replace it with a more functioning body. but i just want to say one thing. this debate is not about left or right. it is not. it is about giving citizens the chance to choose what kind of direction their europe should take. it’s about empowering a government that is elected by a parliament to make decisions and to be able to act. and if the citizens don’t like it, in the next elections they can vote this government out. so let us not make it about left or right. let’s make it about daring more democracy.
mr president, at the launch of the conference on the future of europe, i offered guy verhofstadt a wager for any sum that the conference conclusions were prearranged and would call for more eu integration, less unanimity, more migration, more fanciful green humbug and more eu debt. in short, they would call for a federal eu state. mr verhofstadt declined the offer, for he well knew that all i predicted would come true, that the conference process was a farce. to achieve a federal state, the eu requires treaty revision. however, 13 member states, including the czech republic and sweden, have rejected treaty change. the id group welcomes the declaration of the 13. we will support any initiative to bring the eu back to reason, prosperity and democracy, and to save us from a dysfunctional eu state.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i prefer a belated secretary of state with ambitions to improve europe to a punctual snorer. because now is the moment to move forward with a convention. europe's constitution is tense, not just since putin's war, mr simon! and chancellor merkel in particular has been sleeping for 16 years to make the eu more ambitious and more capable of action. we are already well on the way to reforming the citizens. they are now counting on us to put the common demands for reform into practice, to do more than just talk, to understand our craft, to create majorities, to put the council behind us, to write the next chapter of the european reform path. and the signs, they're in the right place this time. the german government promises reforms in the coalition agreement, the french president is backing it, and yesterday the irish taoiseach was here in the house to promote it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must now stick to the task of making reform the main issue at this july european summit under the french presidency. we owe this to all europeans. let us not disappoint them, let us make europe better! we have only one europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for a year, we've been dating citizens. the result was 49 recommendations and 325 measures. all institutional actors involved have committed to consider the recommendations with a view to their implementation. and we in the european parliament are taking the ultimate step today, by invoking article 48 to formally open the way to treaty amendments. the topmost, in my view, is defence and foreign policy. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear how badly we are positioned militarily and how little we as a european union still speak with one voice. secondly, energy policy. our energy supply must be secured, diversified and climate-neutral throughout europe. thirdly, health and emergency protection. the european union's sensible measures during the pandemic must be safeguarded. fourthly, our decision-making processes. when there's unanimity, the slowest one always sets the pace. we can no longer afford to do that, not even in view of the enlargement of the eu by accessions. we need qualified majority voting as the standard, even when it comes to imposing consequences when a member state violates our fundamental values. in conclusion, we as the european parliament and we as the epp want to make our unique peace and economic project sustainable and to make use of all the reform possibilities. but a convent will take years. it must not be an excuse for not using the many practical and pragmatic possibilities that exist to make the eu more capable of action. just imagine if the ukraine war becomes a war of position. imagine if there was a famine. imagine if the power was running out. imagine, two years from now, donald trump is back in power in the united states, and china is increasingly controlling global value chains. we cannot wait for the outcome of the convention; what we need above all is responsible pro-european leadership in the member states and in the eu, who can introduce solutions flexibly and quickly. that is why, mr beaune, you will put the convention on the agenda of the european council on 21 june.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i do not want to buy products made by uyghurs in detention camps. i do not want to see products made by workers in debt bondage in malaysia on the eu single market. and the european parliament is united and clear: the eu needs to act. forced labour must be banned and consumers must know they are not buying products of modern slavery. and for that it is really, really important how the instrument looks like, because the devil is in the detail. in our resolution that was carried by all the groups and a very broad majority in the trade committee, we demand to properly ban products linked to forced labour, not only a watered—down product—withdraw mechanism like the commission is discussing it. we want the instrument to be remedy—centred, because the idea is that we help the workers that are in modern slavery. the instrument needs to be encompassing and should not exclude certain businesses. i thank president von der leyen very much that she, in her initiative last year, in her speech of the union, announced this instrument, but in order for this to not be like an empty promise, and that we don’t have another 10 years, the commission needs to come now with an instrument that is effective and that will work for the people currently in forced labour. so we need to make the eu a driving force in banning forced labour globally.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. forced labour is the slavery of the 21st century and must be fought. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, i do have a few critical suggestions. who are we playing today? is this against bangladesh? is this about qatar? those would be good examples. no, it's against china, and it's about supporting the uighurs. and the uighurs are actually being oppressed and exploited. but no one in china is truly free, because communism and human rights and freedom are incompatible. and declaring the uighurs as saints per se is not quite right either, because in islamic terrorism worldwide, uighurs are always in the front line, including al-qaeda and isis. and all this legislation has been put before us by the united states, and we've heard that before. only, the u.s. is in a trade war with china. and the us in particular doesn't care at all they really do cooperate with every rogue state in the world when it's to their advantage. we should not forget that either.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the resolution on illegal logging is another attempt by the eu to take over powers in the field of nature conservation, environmental protection and forestry. the aim is to implement tracking and tracing systems and wood certification systems to better control timber harvesting and timber exports, under the pretext of large-scale logging, which mainly takes place in countries such as romania, greece and slovakia. how farmers and small private forest owners can manage this bureaucratic madness is difficult to imagine. in addition, the terms logging and deforestation are not clearly distinguished; the terms are vague. incidentally, the main cause of deforestation is likely to be arson, not illegal logging. the eu forest strategy for 2030 addresses other key concerns. it is not just a bureaucratic monster, it is above all a serious interference with national competences and it is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. or do you really think that the forests of finland are as manageable as the few trees in malta or cyprus? and so it goes on: the keywords climate and biodiversity are designed to protect even more forest areas, thus depriving them of the sustainable management that has been successful for generations. it is said that logging must be reduced to meet climate targets and the green deal. it completely ignores the fact that the replacement of fossil fuels with onshore wind power leads to significant forest consumption. for example, in germany, a century-old forest such as the reinhardt forest is in danger of being sacrificed to the installation of wind turbines. it can't work like this. but what can we do? we need to understand sustainability again. the concept of sustainability was invented in forestry over 200 years ago. back then, people didn't take harvesters into the woods to harvest. this was done in small increments and with due regard for the tree stock. we have thus obtained a truly diversified and sustainable forestry in central europe. we must not let ourselves be ruined by this new bureaucratic monster and new requirements. the commission has also proposed that the member states should retain responsibility for nature conservation, environmental protection and forestry. we should do everything we can to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are losing valuable forests in the eu every day through illegal logging, even in highly protected natura 2000 areas. criminal networks are particularly brutal. we know the pictures of the ruthless clearing of forest by hectares. this is a huge environmental, but also economic, damage. and it's not just a disaster for soils, biodiversity or climate, it's also a disaster for local confidence in the rule of law. i have two questions for the commission: why has the commission not yet taken further action in the proceedings against romania? why are we not in court, when it is clear that absolutely nothing is being done to stop illegal logging? and the second question, perhaps to your colleagues from agri: is it not the fact that we in the eu are unable to regulate large-scale logging as a legal method of harvesting that prevents us from clearly identifying illegal logging and confronting the actors, for example, with satellite technology? if we made the principles of sustainable and conservative forestry binding across the eu, would we not be able to reduce illegal logging much more effectively?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to continue in german. the vote on the emissions trading system scheduled for today is listed as the first reading in the documents. the system was voted down in a first reading in the plenary on 8 june, just two weeks ago, and the majority of the members voted against it. are we repeating the first readings until the result is acceptable to a few people? my german colleagues from the cdu have a lot of experience in the kitchen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise, we are producing a law which is open to challenge and therefore ineffective, due to blatant procedural errors, and i must admit that i would not really regret it.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, i am not going to speak for two, or two and a half, additional minutes, but maybe a few seconds more. i’m counting on your indulgence. frau präsidentin! premierminister plenković, meinen glückwunsch zum euro-beitritt! aber die eurozone hat seit jahren kaum null- oder negativwachstum. in der hochtechnologie und den wachstumsindustrien sind wir hoffnungslos abgeschlagen hinter china und den usa. die inflation grassiert und liegt bei 9 %; in der schweiz liegt sie bei unter 3 %. den deutschen sparer allein kostete der euro 2021 rund 160 milliarden euro – unbezahlbar, volkswirtschaftlich desaströs und auf dauer vertragswidrig angelegt, denn die eurorettung vollzieht sich seit jahren im offenen widerspruch zu den artikeln 123 aeuv, 125 aeuv, 127 aeuv und 310 und 311 aeuv. der allen katholiken wohlbekannte und damit auch ihren landsleuten geläufige thomas morus rügte einst seinen meineidigen widersacher cromwell mit den worten: „der einzelne mag versucht sein, sein heil für die ganze welt zu geben, aber für wales? “ sie nun geben ihr land auf für den euro. eigentlich sollten das nur länder, die sich selbst längst schon abgeschrieben haben. das will ich nicht hoffen für ihr land.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, we are all witnessing a once-in-a-lifetime general shift in europe’s history. ukraine is spilling blood, defending both europe and itself from the imperial evil of putin. moldova accepted thousands of refugees and is now resisting the huge economic pressure caused by the war. georgia was the first one in the region to be punished by russia for its legitimate wish to become european. the future of this continent is to be reshaped, either according to our values or to putin’s rules. therefore, it is high time that the eu starts speaking in the language of power and demonstrates its firmness and geopolitical credibility. we also have long-standing commitments towards the western balkan states. europe won’t be complete unless we deliver the concrete steps now regarding the promise of their european integration. i call on all european leaders to take political responsibility and shape the europe of tomorrow, where the western balkans, as well as ukraine, moldova and georgia, have a place.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the very idea of making ukraine an official candidate for eu membership shows how far this house has already strayed from reality. the very concept of the rule of law seems foreign to the highly corrupt ukraine. since 2014, the eu has paid over 17 billion to fight corruption and establish the rule of law in the country. the result: the country has improved by a proud eight points in the corruption index that is, 2 billion per point. the german taxpayer is paying record taxes, suffering from record inflation. there is a threat of massive impoverishment. every penny is needed now in our own country. the citizens must be relieved of their burdens. the fact that billions of taxpayers' money are still being wasted on foreign countries is an absolute insolence and a slap in the face to every eu citizen. and that is the only thing we are all obliged to do here, not to the ukrainian, the moldovan or even the afghan citizen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a war in europe and it is the right message to give the candidate status to ukraine, georgia and moldova. and you also have to communicate clearly and honestly that this will require enormous efforts in these countries to actually go through this process, which is taking a long time. but it is also important that the european union should be able to expand. and here are the conclusions, the drafts that we have seen, lame and inadequate. the eu must also make enormous efforts, for example, in terms of its ability to act, to safeguard democracy and the rule of law - i will mention only article 7 here - to implement the reforms that the citizens have written in their books, in our books. and that is why it is important that we now really get a clear signal here from the council, commitments to make the eu enlargeable and to ensure that we have a good future in a united europe here, democratically.
in writing. mrs von der leyen, you say that ukraine has proved, long before the war, that it has reformed very successfully and is on the right track? that it is a robust parliamentary democracy? that it has a well-functioning administration and that there are free and fair elections? madame de la leyen, who do you write to? what channels do you use to get your information? apparently not on your own. i am happy to quote again the european court of auditors of 23 september 2021: ukraine has suffered from corruption for many years, especially large-scale corruption. i had to find out what it was: big corruption! the court of auditors defines 'major corruption' as 'the abuse of power at a high level by a few individuals to gain an advantage at the expense of the general public, thereby causing serious and widespread damage to individuals and society'. this kind of corruption is mainly from oligarchs and interest groups. large-scale corruption and state takeover impede competition and growth, and damage the democratic process. mrs von der leyen, either your court of auditors is right or you are. madame de la leyen, it seems to me that you are lying.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 june 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to announce that the non-partisan members have sent the president resolutions on the change of appointments to committees. these decisions will be published in the minutes of today's meeting and will enter into force on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the report by mr gardiazabal rubial, mr siegfried mureşan and mr dragoş pîslaru, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the implementation of the facility for reconstruction and resilience (2021/2251 (ini)) (a9-0171/2022).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, if we take a look back to the hard times when covid hit us the first time, we remember probably two distinguished moments. one was when all cultural entities were closed, the other one was when schools were closed. i think those are the two most prominent and also the hardest hit structural entities that we see. the cultural sector makes up 4.4% of europe’s gdp. over 8.7 million people are employed in the cultural sector. every child goes to school, thankfully, but still we have asked for 2% of the rf to be spent on culture and 10% in education. we had to follow up on this, and see that this has not been done across europe – the problem there being that some member states actually invest money in culture and education while others don’t. they have not followed parliament’s proposal to do the rightful investments, and what we see now is underfunded cultural entities in several member states, especially those where freedom of speech is threatened by other means. we are seeing a recovery of different speeds. we see member states like italy that have invested heavily in culture and others that have invested nothing and we know that this threatens the european diversity of culture. this has to be reversed, and therefore we are calling on the commission to reuse the unused rf resources for culture and education to make sure that every european can enjoy diversity and can enjoy very well education.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i was informed there would be additional speaking time because my colleague ernest urtasun cannot come, so it will be a bit longer. the recovery fund negotiations were extremely intense – and i can still feel parts of this mini—trauma when i see the colleagues here, because of all the all—night sessions that we spent – but they have also been extremely successful. for the first time ever, the european union decided to take up common debt of such as size to invest us out of the corona pandemic crisis and all the horrible social and economic effects that ensued. with a large majority in this house, we decided that we wouldn’t just build back in any way, but that we would build back better, that we would build back by fuelling the green transition, by fuelling the digital transition, by making sure that we have new standards for green investment when we do that, and that we also apply this new standard for green investment to cohesion funds. since then, actually, a lot of remarkable things have happened. we have seen countries implement reforms that have not been tabled for years. we have seen a lot of countries with very good and innovative ideas of how to actually do this green and digital transition. and we have seen that and we have also fought for the fact that no euro should actually go into any form of spending that would harm the environment. that’s the positive side. but we have also obviously seen some issues and i think it’s really important that we point them out so that we can address them and also learn for the future. some countries still did greenwashing, and i can name germany with their hybrid cars is one example. some member states refuse to adhere to the necessary safeguards for our european taxpayers’ money when it comes to, for example, the rule of law. we have talked about this in the last session, obviously in the case of poland, but also when it comes to corruption.
excuse me just for a second. i have been informed that the additional speaking time has been given to mr boeselager.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – so then i will wrap up very quickly. so what can we learn from this? i think we need more parliamentary oversight – that’s clear – so that such things can’t happen, like the polish recovery plan. we need to make sure that we turn the tool into a permanent tool because we can see that new crises are coming up and we need a permanent fiscal architecture to be able to address the challenges that are coming. and we need to make sure that all conditionality, when it comes to the rule of law and green spending, are upheld. thank you very much for that additional time.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 june 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the building and resilience facility is an illegal eu debt-financed instrument that has poured billions of euros into dubious projects in the union without proper scrutiny by the european commission or the european parliament. the commission refuses to translate the national reform plans into the eu's official working languages, ensuring that members of the european parliament have very limited scrutiny of the hundreds of billions of euros in handouts. to date, member states have applied for over 500 billion in loans and grants from the facility, further fuelling inflation and thus undermining the economic recovery following the covid crisis. croatia received 1,6% of its gdp in 2021 as pre-financing. in terms of gdp, we can safely say that for the eu, 1 croat is worth about 26 germans. the amount per inhabitant in italy was 420 euros. germany received 27. measured in terms of money per head, this means that 1 italian is worth 15.5 germans. in summary, the rrf fuels inflation, undermines economic recovery and growth and strengthens the eu as a transfer union.
the next item is the debate on the report by laurence farreng, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the implementation of integration measures under the erasmus+ programme for the period 2014-2020 (2021/2009 (ini)) (a9-0158/2022).
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, erasmus programmes are a good thing. encouraging the participation of disabled students who wish to become involved in erasmus programmes is commendable. enabling young people to travel to and learn from various european nations, cultures, traditions and values while improving their academic skills is quite an achievement. in order to keep it that way, let us make sure that we maintain our focus on supporting students’ development into competent, capable and multi-skilled citizens for the benefit of european nations and society at large. let us avoid mixing educational programmes with political points that belong in a separate sphere. let us keep in mind – whatever path students take, including towards erasmus – it all comes down to their personal choice. paving the way for a strong and functioning society involves respecting rather than forcing personal decisions about education. we want erasmus to remain what it is: a desirable option and not an opportunity to score unsolicited political points.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 june 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr tonino picula, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission's 2021 report on montenegro (2021/2247(ini)) (a9-0151/2022).
sorry, colleague, but you can use catch-the-eye if you want to speak, but for the moment we listen to the commissioner. you have the possibility, just use your catch-the-eye. please stop. thank you. mr commissioner, please continue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 23 june 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr helmut scholz, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the future of trade relations between the eu and africa (2021/2178 (ini)) (a9-0169/2022).
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the european parliament. well, on the basis of target groups, the present proposal has been sold as a possible instrument against the increasing activity of our global competitors from russia, turkey and of course also from china, and that, let us remember, we have just heard, excluding any neocolonial or even colonial overtones. the question is: where once fiercely monotonous colonial lords were swinging their knots, today greta thunberg and carola rackete are swinging their knots - in the appropriate words, as we have heard them today. and it threatens even more: it threatens to become a boomerang for us, and it threatens of course to become a bribe business for the european union itself, if we look at the fact that mass migration is just being opened here and that the text does not even speak a word about returning criminally convicted migrants. in this sense, it remains as it often does: the opposite of well done is well meant.
rapporteur. – madam president, the netherlands are being sued by a foreign investor in front of an international tribunal just because they are exiting dirty coal. the eu itself is being sued by nord stream 2, of all companies, just because we regulated our gas market. it becomes clear that we have a problem. the international community has created in the last years a system that has got out of hand. via investment protection treaties, international companies have got the right to challenge all kinds of democratic decisions in front of private international tribunals, and faced with those threats, member states have basically two options: they can back away from public policy choices like getting out of fossil fuel, or they risk paying billions of euros in compensation. we saw thousands of citizens protesting in the streets against this perverse system. we saw scholars and judges speaking out for reform. we saw engaged debates in this parliament. and because of this pressure, the eu’s approach to investment protection and dispute settlement has evolved in the last years. and this is good. the current eu model is better than it used to be and better than that of the member states. but let me be clear; the green deal and the paris agreement demand more. they demand we continue to reform, to minimise risks for democracy and to transform our economy towards decarbonisation without a giant price tag. and this is exactly what we are doing in this report. we, as parliamentarians, are proposing today a new reformed model for the eu’s investment policy. first, we suggest in the report to end the protection of investments in fossil fuels or any other activities that pose significant harm to the environment and human rights – and cases against climate policies keep on piling up, delaying action, and costing millions to taxpayers. investment must be channelled towards sustainable activities and away from those which are cooking our planet. second, we want to stop giving a blank cheque to international investors to just sue states whenever they like. international investors should first need to go through national courts before using arbitration. we must cap the damage that can be awarded so that taxpayers do not risk having to pay billions to corporations. we demand narrower protection standards to limit abusive cases. in short, we must protect our ability to make laws and regulations. third, the report takes a clear position on the energy charter treaty. that is such a big problem for our climate policies and today we say, crystal clear, an empty deal cannot satisfy this parliament, we need to exit this dirty treaty. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation on this report. we reached, i think, an outcome that is balanced but bold, forward-looking, and shows also how relevant the european parliament is on this topic, where we as parliamentarians unfortunately do not sit at the table during the negotiations on investment agreements. i call on the commission and the member states to take the demands of this report very seriously and adopt this as the new eu approach. our report clearly asks member states to terminate or modernise their old bilateral investment treaties. so, investment policy can be a very powerful tool. let us use it for the benefit of all of us.
i have to say, madam president, in its ruling of 15 june 2022, the federal constitutional court found that former chancellor merkel had acted unconstitutionally when she called the democratic election of the prime minister of thuringia in february 2020 unforgivable, called it a bad day for democracy and demanded that this election be reversed. what would have happened in this house if, say, viktor orbán had acted as merkel did and the hungarian constitutional court had declared him unconstitutional? it would be hyperventilating to accuse orbán of anti-constitutional behaviour in countless urgent debates and to give him a full-on slap in the face with the entire repertoire of rule of law mechanisms. in this case, however, you are quite right. the thundering silence of this house on merkel's violation of the constitution is significant. now that merkel is finally gone, her ominous legacy of anti-democratic structures is still firmly in germany's grasp. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the german people are not left behind.
i have to say, madam president, inflation in the eurozone is 9%, and in switzerland it is below 3%. the swiss national bank has nevertheless raised the key interest rate by half a percentage point, while the ecb is only expecting a quarter of a percentage point. so why does the ecb make half-bags or even quarter-bags? the rampant inflation in the eurozone has three reasons: first, the green deal; second, the explosion in energy prices as a result of the ukraine sanctions against russia; and third, the unrestrained expansion of the money supply. the ecb cannot and does not want to lift the sanctions. the ecb supports the green deal, and the ecb will continue to expand the money supply to subsidize the debt of many euro states. the ecb does not want to act.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. gas storage could be the political buzzword of 2022. gas reserves in europe are at historic lows, putin is waging a war of aggression against europe, and as gazprom cuts off gas supplies, gas prices are exploding. the first thing we must do is become independent of russian natural gas. this means that eu member states - and not just germany - need to diversify their supply chains with a clear view of human rights. and secondly, the goal is to become completely independent of natural gas and gas imports in order to achieve our paris climate goals. it is the only way to protect european citizens and industry from exploding gas prices. we need to invest heavily in renewable energy and energy efficiency. and we need the green deal now. every single solar cell, every single wind turbine means energy security, means geostrategic independence and means decisive action against energy poverty. the best gas storage facilities in europe in the long term are not those that are full, but those that are no longer there because of a successful energy transition with 100% renewable energy instead of fossil energy. and that is precisely what we have to do here in the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. poland has paid very well for its veto against the introduction of a global minimum corporate tax rate of 5%. the eu commission has now released poland's multi-billion-dollar national development plan. as a result, hungary, the last country to wait for its money from brussels, is blocking the tax deal until the eu's hypocritical objections are dropped and hungary's reconstruction plan is approved and the billions are transferred to budapest. the eu is denying eu funds to states. the flimsy justification: disregard for the so-called rule of law. but the high value of the independence of the judiciary and the media is degenerating into a game ball or bargaining chip in political bluff poker. this is a flagrant violation of the principles of the rule of law and of our democratic concept of the state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if this principle is abandoned, brussels will have finally established its taxation without representation as the cornerstone of our political order.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. friday was a dark day for all europeans and a good day for multinational corporations. viktor orbán has been alternating with the polish government in blocking the implementation of the global minimum taxation for large corporations. thanks to viktor orbán, amazon is no longer paying corporate tax in the european union. and many european companies, such as bayer or basf, can continue to artificially reduce their tax liability. tax dumping in the eu must be stopped. it is a democratic problem when countries like hungary with a 9% or luxembourg with an effective tax rate of 2% undermine our tax system. the european union's finance ministers, do not let hungary and poland continue to blackmail you. introduce the global minimum tax without viktor orbán and morawiecki. yes, it is possible! we greens ask you: use article 20 to enhance cooperation and finally implement the global tax deal.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in view of the worrying developments in uzbekistan, which have left at least 18 dead and hundreds injured, i would ask that parliament put a debate on this subject on the agenda tomorrow evening. i call on the european commission and my colleagues to support the negotiations between the parties involved in order to secure peace in uzbekistan. i would like the european commission to support the member states and other actors in the mediation process to achieve a peaceful and rapid settlement of the hostilities in uzbekistan.
the president. the next item is the debate on the commission statement the decision of the us supreme court to overturn the right to abortion in the united states and the need to preserve the right to abortion and protect women's health in the eu (2022/2742(rsp)). i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after inserting your voting card into the voting machine, you can apply for spontaneous reports and blue cards through your voting machine. please carry your voting card with you at all times. the relevant instructions are available in the chamber. if you wish to speak spontaneously, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. i would also like to point out that blue cards can also be held up for a short verbal message and that a follow-up question is permitted afterwards. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be dealt with from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before the start of your speaking time. i hope i have spoken long enough for those who do not wish to participate to leave the chamber. it's also clear that this is an emotional debate. that is why i would like to remind you once again that this is a parliament. the word 'parliament' comes from 'speak'. so we want to exchange words here, not with any signs, banners, t-shirts or anything like that - just to start. and now that the atmosphere has calmed down, i can give the floor to mrs dalli on behalf of the commission and welcome her to the house.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
i come now to a communication: the id group has sent the president a decision on the change of appointments in a delegation. this decision shall be published in the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of its notification.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on 'deaths, violence and inhuman treatment of people seeking international protection at the spanish-moroccan border' (2022/2748 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, there are 2000 illegal immigrants, mostly heavily armed, storming the border with - and i quote the faz - great brutality, and it is seriously claimed that they have sought international protection. this is a slap in the face to the many wounded border guards who risked their lives defending not just spain but all of us here. did any of them overreact? i might. but we should all remember that for the border guards, it was a matter of life and death. opening the borders to illegal and violent migrants is not a solution, but leads to the downfall of our nation and our culture. the big problem is and remains the massive overpopulation of africa, which is the first cause of this ever-increasing pressure to migrate. so africa needs to finally get a handle on this problem. the first thing we have to do is not to take care of things in africa, but to protect our people from being overrun. only in this way can we ensure the survival of our nation and our culture. think about these aspects too.
madam president, last week more than 2 000 migrants tried to cross the border at the enclave of melilla. they were met with tear gas and baton shots. the un denounces the disproportionate use of force on both sides of the border, and the african union is calling for an inquiry, statements we agree with. there is no justification for such violence at europe's external borders, which has led to the deaths of more than 23 people, buried in a ditch. it is an odious, inhuman and, it must be said, racist act. by erecting barriers, we show that cooperation between states and the international community has failed in some respects. barriers and walls are erected to protect people who seek a dignified life. is it consistent with our values? the right to asylum is an inalienable right. moreover, the slogan 'fighting the causes of the exodus' must not remain an advertising slogan, but must be translated into action, through a fair climate policy and a trade policy. we must engage in dialogue with our partners in africa and find appropriate solutions so that the human rights of migrants are respected. the melilla massacre should make us think about how to make these barriers obsolete and take into account the migration pact in order to prevent such tragedies from happening again.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the joint debate on the digital single market, on the report by christel schaldemose on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the digital services act (com 2020/0825 c9-0418/2020 2020/0361 ((cod)) (a9-0356/2021) and on the report by andreas schwab on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the digital markets act (com 2020/0842 (c9-0419/2020) 2020/0374 ((cod)) (a9-0332/2021). i would like to welcome commissioners vestager and breton.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, dear colleagues, commissioners, as the itre rapporteur, i would like to thank all the colleagues for their excellent cooperation on this dsa. the dsa sets landmark standards for a safer and more transparent digital space for users, and also a level playing field for businesses. we can also say that it puts europe to the forefront in regulating the online world. as itre rapporteur, my focus has been especially on the ict industry innovations and small and micro—enterprises. it is important for european businesses, especially for our smes, that we ensure that they have now a level playing field and fair competition. and we have to make sure that european values and rules are also respected in the online world. at the same time, we should encourage companies to scale up, innovate and invest in europe. our smes and start-ups play a crucial role in creating europe’s digital competitiveness and growth. regulating the digital market should not set obstacles for growth. so that’s why we must ensure that the smallest enterprises are not faced with too heavy an administrative burden. necessary flexibility and legal certainty is needed for smes to operate and grow. so i think we have now a very balanced outcome of two regulations here, dsa and dma. on behalf of the itre committee i would like to thank all the colleagues and rapporteurs and shadows and all the institutions for this work.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, commissioners, the agreement, adoption and entry into force of the digital markets and services regulations is a historic step towards the creation of a digital single market inspired by the principles and values of the european union. in the current geopolitical context, this step is even more important, reflecting the shared values that embody our digital identity and that are focused on defending fundamental rights and on strong ethical commitments and legal safeguards that protect our citizens and our democratic societies. as rapporteur for the digital markets regulation in the itre committee, i have, with the support of my co-rapporteurs and a clear majority of members, made full use of the application of rule 56 plus in the exercise of our cross-cutting and sectoral powers. i would like to emphasize the joint work with the imco committee and, in particular, with its rapporteur, which made it possible for the solutions adopted by the itre committee in such key areas as interoperability, user access to the platforms and advertising to be reflected in parliament's final report and to become decisive for the interinstitutional agreement. we have strengthened consumer and user guarantees and created better conditions for innovation and market access, in particular for smes and start-ups. now is the time to act!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, on behalf of my civil liberties committee, let me be honest to our citizens: we tried to make the dsa a game—changer and overcome the surveillance capitalist business model of pervasive tracking online. but we failed. we failed to provide you with alternatives to toxic platform algorithms that will push the most controversial and extreme content to the very top of your timelines. and we failed to protect legal content, including media content, from being over—blocked by error—prone upload filters or arbitrarily set platform rules. but just before industry and governments – who have reliably been supported by the commission – celebrate too quickly, don’t forget that there is more legislation coming up, such as on political advertising, such as on e-privacy, and here we’ll fight all the harder against surveillance advertising. we will fight for a do—not—track option on every device, for a right to encryption, and we’ll fight against indiscriminate data retention. defending fundamental rights in the digital age is a marathon, not a sprint. you’ll see.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the digital services act (dsa) is a landmark legislation with the potential to become a global standard. while it is not perfect, it is still revolutionary. why is that so? first of all, it breaks with the paradigm of inevitability, and it puts democracy over private, monopolistic interests, because until now there was a feeling that big tech was too powerful to regulate, and now we make it clear that democracies set the rules. secondly, it makes the internet a better place without interfering with freedom of expression. the dsa holds platforms accountable for what they do and not for what their users think or write in their posts. and finally, it tackles the information asymmetry. today, platforms know everything about us because they collect our data. but the little we know, we learned from whistle-blowers, like frances haugen. and this is why the risk assessment and the access to the data of the platforms for independent researchers, also from civil society organisations, is so important because they will provide us with the evidence we need to regulate well. and they will be able to tell the stories about how social networks influence our public opinion, our politics, or the health of our children. europe and the world deserve a free internet where democracy counts more than private profits. the dsa is a first, but giant, step in that direction.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this area. the dsa has clear rules for the online world. and this rapid agreement on this digital package shows that europe can act. europe can indeed move forward quickly and also set the rules in this world. that's a good sign. but as the liberal leader of the home affairs committee, i was particularly concerned with digital civil rights. we didn't get everything we wanted. but we've made sure that there is no general monitoring obligation, so that in the future upload filters are not introduced through liability obligations. this is a victory for digital civil rights, and i think for many young people who demonstrated against it a few years ago, it's also a very important sign. but the next attack on digital civil rights is already being prepared. chat control would be a general surveillance of all of our chats. it would be a privatization of law enforcement. we shouldn't do this. the very values we describe with the dsa would break with it. we shouldn't go down that road.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i can hardly understand this positive criticism. when i look at the text of the law, i often see the wet dream, the wet dream come true of so many fetishists of the authoritarian state. we may not have succeeded in digitizing public administration. the digitisation of the block guard system in the form of the 'trusted flagger', however, seems to be succeeding in this case. they want to restrict public discourse, restrict democratic rights in times of crisis. i ask you, what are these times of crisis? was the refugee crisis in 2015 one of these? was such a crisis the justified criticism of thousands upon thousands of people for vaccines that were released too early? ladies and gentlemen, this draft is, for the most part, unworthy of mature citizens. you might even go so far as to say: this is milke's belated revenge on western free speech. ladies and gentlemen, if you are a true democrat, you will not agree to this text in this form.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the statistics speak for themselves. women’s lower earnings and under-representation in the labour market translate into a higher risk of poverty. while female employment currently stands at 66.2%, the employment gap between women and men is still 11 percentage points. the gender pay gap is 13% and the pension gap is 27%. care responsibilities keep some 7.7 million women out of the labour market, compared with just 450 000 men. other important drivers of gender inequalities include the over-representation of women in low-paid sectors, segregation related to the choice of education and career paths, and the under-representation of women in management and decision-making positions. certain women are more at risk of poverty and social exclusion than others. this is the case, for instance, of women living alone, migrant women, elderly women and women with disabilities. several initiatives in the gender equality strategy and action plan of the european pillar of social rights can be game-changers for women’s economic empowerment and can help tackle the structural issues that cause, exacerbate or perpetuate women’s poverty. the action plan sets a target for an employment rate of 78% by 2030, complemented by an ambition to reduce by at least 50% the gender employment gap. the employment target will also contribute to achieving the poverty headline target under the action plan, which aims to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty by at least 15 million by 2030. the proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wages aims to reduce wage inequality and poverty for all of the most vulnerable workers, many of whom are women. and i welcome that on 7 june, the european parliament and the council reached an agreement on this initiative. the commission will adopt later this year a proposal for a council recommendation on minimum income to support member states in ensuring that those lacking sufficient resources receive an adequate minimum income benefit for a life in dignity. in march 2021 the commission put forward a proposal for binding pay transparency rules. negotiations between the co-legislators kicked off on 30 june and will hopefully lead to a swift adoption. ensuring the right to equal pay between women and men as enshrined in the treaties will contribute towards closing the gender pay gap and strengthen women’s economic empowerment. women’s economic empowerment, professional choices and meaningful participation in the labour market depend on available, affordable and good quality care structures. this year the commission will come forward with a new european care strategy. it will be accompanied by a proposal to revise the barcelona targets on early childhood education and care. it will build upon the european child guarantee, which aims to support vulnerable children. concerning long term care, the strategy will set a framework for policy reform to ensure better and more affordable access to quality services for all. the care strategy will also address carers. care work is often undervalued and the time has come for us to start caring about care. many care workers, more than 80% of them in the eu are women, and a number of them are of migrant backgrounds, face difficult working conditions and have limited career prospects. it is crucial to ensure that in the post-pandemic recovery we recognise and value women’s immense and sometimes invisible contribution to our economy and societies. improving working conditions in the sector requires stronger social dialogue, adequate pay, and upskilling and reskilling opportunities. informal care should be a choice rather than a necessity, driven by lack of quality and affordable services. support measures should be in place for informal carers. the unprecedented eu funds available and already in use will support this endeavour. i’m thinking here particularly of nextgeneration eu as well as the cohesion policy funds, notably the european social fund+, our main instrument for investing in people, and the european regional development fund. the commission stands ready to support member states in undertaking relevant reforms, particularly to integrate care through the technical support instrument. each of these instruments and initiatives contributes to the empowerment of women and gives them the tools to help them to thrive. better sharing of care between parents is a key factor to ensure that most women and men can participate equally and in a meaningful way in the labour market. the work-life balance directive will make it easier for both women and men to combine work with care responsibilities. the aim is to encourage both women and men to equally share care responsibilities. the commission will closely follow the transposition of the directive, set for august 2022. so thank you for putting the debate on combating women’s poverty high on the agenda. we need a gender-transformative approach to ensure that all women and girls are equally included, recognised and valued for their contribution in society. it is a long road to gender equality and we will need to continue paving it. we count on your support to continue mainstreaming gender equality into legislation, policies, programmes and actions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. almost one in four women in the european union is affected by poverty. poverty is more than material deprivation. poverty also means social exclusion and social isolation. we must tackle the root causes of poverty and social exclusion effectively. we must finally overcome the structural gap between men and women in the economy, in the gender pay and pension gaps. and we need to create synergies between policies in the member states in social policy to promote gender equality, employment and education. unfortunately, there is no one-size-fits-all solution. the problem is far too complex for that. women's work must be paid for, even if it is not in a traditional employment relationship or in the informal economy. we need to empower women to balance family life and career. the majority of women graduates in the eu are women, but they are underrepresented in the labour market. and despite their higher qualifications, women are more likely to work part-time - especially women with children. we need to promote opportunities for education and training, including the digital revolution and the promotion of stem professions among girls and women. this includes women's entrepreneurship. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and for the really fair and constructive exchange.
for the greens/efa group madam president, the feminization of poverty in europe has reached worrying proportions, particularly as a result of the pandemic. since the mid-1970s, research on women has been based on the thesis that poverty is female. more than half of single mothers and single mothers living below the poverty line work in precarious conditions. we must therefore do everything we can to eliminate structural inequalities in pay for jobs that are predominantly occupied by women, and to contribute to our social protection system to achieve this so that they can achieve empowerment. revaluation is the key word. the gender pay gap must be replaced by equality or, as a first step, by a significant upgrading of women's work. single or elderly women, as well as single mothers and carers of their natural ascendants, must be seen as a social compass for solidarity and community spirit. in europe, women of non-european origin, especially roma women and women of african or arab origin, are doubly disadvantaged. in many cases, they are in precarious, low-paid jobs, working part-time despite their qualifications. in the context of gender equality, our report must aim to raise the profile of such jobs with support measures that can enable women to flourish.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in this fancy ivory tower, hardly anyone knows what poverty is, but that's it. poverty must be fought, and the eu knows how. we are now telling the citizens how to live their most personal lives within their own four walls. personal career planning is being designed at the eu's drawing board, in the 'beautiful new world'. the eu decides which content leads to good education, and the money faucet is turned on the back of persistent member states who insist that education falls within their regulatory competence. another report that is giving member states ideological nonsense. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, and it is hoping that the council will take a decision on this matter in the near future. this report is not fighting poverty, it is fighting freedom, democracy and the rule of law - as is everything that comes out of this house.
i have to say, madam president, the ecb expects inflation to be 6.8% this year, 3.5% next year and 2% in 2024. this is 12.8% over three years, or 4.3% per year on average - well above the ecb's 2% target and a whopping 4.3% above the eu treaty price stability requirement. the ecb thus devalues savings by a good 4% per year and net income by around 3%. at the same time, real estate prices in the euro area are rising by 10%. the ecb, however, is hardly raising interest rates. the bottom line is that the ecb has led us into stagflation, dispossessed ordinary citizens and allowed large fortunes to grow at double-digit rates. let 's call it what it is . the ecb has failed in monetary policy. it is for a change, once spoke with marx nothing but the henchman of the plutocracy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one thing is clear: in this report - i have to be honest, i come from the nursing home - there are two hearts beating in my chest. on the one hand, i recognize the need to strengthen care here in europe. on the other hand, i also recognize that the deficits between the different countries in the field of care are enormous and that the principle of subsidiarity must be applied here. this report is not very suitable for that. i'm concerned that this report is cementing care in a form that we can't use. care is subject to a constantly evolving process of adaptation. caregiving is a developmental process that we have to constantly review, revise. nursing is a science in its own right, and this report simply does not do justice to that, and i have to say that very clearly. i want more innovation, more research in the field of nursing. i hope that the recognition of nursing will finally be achieved, and this report will not change much in the way nursing is done throughout europe. i want to make a difference. i want people to be able to choose this profession without accepting a social relegation, without being exhausted after ten, 20 years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of the workers is not compromised. i hope that we will reject this report, but that we will open up the possibility of going in a new direction, that is, of a new report which is also fair to care and to people throughout europe.
in writing. nurses are heated. they have so many patients to care for, they don't have time for breaks. they suffer from not being able to meet their own demands. most of them became nurses to help people. instead, they see how modern medicine is anti-human, how unnecessary operations are performed because they are well paid, and how patients are discharged from hospital prematurely because their stay is paid for in lump sums. you see death delayed and suffering prolonged because both are profitable for a hospital. nurses are not taken seriously, not by doctors, and certainly not by politicians. they work overtime and on weekends. until they get health problems themselves: sleeping disorders, herniated discs, burnouts. that's what it looks like. and all of this is politically motivated because it's financially rewarding for a few. but there are areas of human life which should not be regulated commercially because they are governed by different rules: moral and ethical rules which have no material equivalent. these are the problems of nursing that are not solved by you, after you've made all the nurses in the country sick and hot, importing more nurses from abroad to make them sick and hot.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, i wish to welcome prime minister mitsotakis to the european parliament. i would like to congratulate you, mr mitsotakis, more than once. first, on paying off your debt to the imf two years ahead of schedule. however, the euro is quite another matter. it has not served greece well. greek inflation stands at 12%. rents in athens are up about 17% and petrol prices are approaching eur 3 per litre. almost 30% of greeks are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. one million greeks work in the tourist sector, but the rental costs of sunbeds in exclusive resorts in mykonos now equal the monthly minimum wage in greece. price rises of up to 110% for greek hotel rooms far exceed those in other holiday destinations. lay—offs in the greek tourist sector therefore seem inevitable. second, i would like to thank you for your efforts in protecting europe against the ongoing migrant invasion. last week you decided to triple the length of the border fence with turkey and you prevented smugglers from offloading over 1 000 illegal migrants on greek islands. third, i applaud your resolve in resisting aggressive posturing from ankara. greece’s territorial integrity should be sacrosanct to the eu, more self—evidently so than that of neighbouring non—eu countries. on the other hand, prime minister, i firmly disagree with you on the expansion of the european empire. with the highest inflation rate since the 1970s, this is not the time to waste energy and money on making the western balkans ‘fit for 55’. rather, we should focus on the greek pension of eur 384 per month and the 14 million germans who live near or below the poverty line. further, your government recently decided to follow germany in ordering f—35 american fighter jets. instead, you could have favoured european options to protect european, not american, workers and jobs. finally, at a recent press conference on demographic change, you seemed to adopt the logic of replacement migration, commending the integration of populations from asia and africa as a viable alternative, or as a viable solution to low fertility rates, instead of favouring imaginative family policies, hungarian style. the truth is that european governments have failed us for 40 years. even europe’s richest countries were never rich enough to allow most families to raise two or three children in modest comfort. they are now importing millions of migrants which will rarely work and usually live on welfare. sadly, our eu leaders are destroying our welfare state through the back door – and european culture and civilisation with it. prime minister, i implore you to resist von der leyen’s ‘great replacement’. greece was under ottoman rule for centuries. you have no reason to adopt germany’s guilt complex.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, mr mitsotakis, welcome to the european parliament, but i want to tell you at the outset that the failure of your government cannot be covered up by attacks and slander from the first seconds of your speech against the previous greek government. mr weber and mr mitsotakis, since you too, mr weber, started off by attacking and personally slandering the former greek prime minister, alexis tsipras, i want to say that such obsessions show that you may even dream about tsipras! in a democracy, the people decide. yesterday it was tsipras, today it is mitsotakis, tomorrow, if the greek people want it, it can be tsipras again. we must respect the truth; and the truth is that the new democracy party has a huge responsibility for the bankruptcy of the country, because it left in 2009 with a 15.4% deficit and a huge public debt and a client state and corruption and oligarchs and cliques. it was put on the memoranda, and the government of samara-venizelos, in which mr mitsotakis was a leading minister, blew up the bank: unemployment at 27%, huge social inequalities, huge backwardness. and instead of the convergence that the greeks were hoping for when we joined the european union 40 years ago, based on what was promised by konstantinos karamanlis and andreas papandreou, we have divergence. and that's what you should have told us, mr. mitsotaki. greece has the highest inflation rate in all of europe: 12% 40% above the eurozone average, the second most expensive gasoline price in the european union. according to eurostat, in terms of purchasing power of citizens it is 26th out of 27. and you have a big part of the responsibility for that, because in addition to imported inflation we have parties of profiteering and speculation. greece remains the world's largest public debt and has plummeted under your rule: 27th out of 27 in press freedom and in the world index 43 places, in 3 years, ranked 108. do you insist, mr mitsotakis, that reporters without borders is an unreliable non-governmental organization? because i want to give you a news flash: we in the european parliament consider it to be very reliable, it is our institutional partner, as it is of the commission and the council of europe and the un, and in a few hours together with mrs metsola, the president of the european parliament, we will be meeting with the reporters without borders, whom you slander, to strengthen our cooperation. so tell us, why does greece remain first out of 27 in youth unemployment and 27th out of 27 in gender equality? why is it that in the three years of your administration, we have the highest death rate from the pandemic per million inhabitants in all of western europe? and another thing: what mr azmani said to you on behalf of the renew europe group and mrs strik on behalf of the prisoners' group, about the need to control illegal repatriations, the european parliament says it too in its committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, commissioner johansson says it too, and it must be checked because these things are not good for our country, nor is the retreat of the rule of law. and since i have learned that mrs vestager has asked you to modernise and reform the justice system in greece so that it can be delivered more quickly - since the slow delivery of justice is also an obstacle to investment and the use of the recovery fund's funds - i would like, mr mitsotakis, to hear something else from you in your secondary speech: in january in parliament, you called leading greek journalists and researchers "the underworld" and "a gang". the supreme judicial council of greece - judges selected by the judiciary leadership, which you appointed - unanimously and solemnly acquitted these journalists of all charges. do you intend for the heavy labels " underworld " and " gang " to make even one apology ? and one last thing about the recovery fund: portugal will build with the money from the recovery fund tens of thousands of beds and apartments for young couples, students and students. how are you gonna make it with the recovery fund money?
madam president, the future that the european union is preparing for the people is already being lived through unemployment, energy poverty, punctuality, inflation and green taxes that finance green and digital business. this dark future has the signature of the european union and all the governments in greece, including the current government of new democracy, which have promoted the criminal strategy of green transition, desalination and energy trading. now, you are shedding crocodile tears over the precision that will be further enhanced as the consequences of sanctions against russia, which the people are paying for, are extended, as imports of expensive american liquefied natural gas, which is harmful to the environment but beneficial to the profits of greek shipowners, increase. this anti-people planning also presupposes the crushing of labour relations, the abolition of collective agreements with a broken public health system exposed to the pandemic. at the same time, the new republic government is asking the people to settle for a life of comfort with meager benefits that in no way cover the huge losses in popular income from the speeding up of the timetable. the greek prime minister tried to overcome these critical problems in his speech by presenting a virtual reality. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. at the same time, there is a growing danger of an escalation of the imperialist conflict in ukraine, as indicated by the decisions to set fire to the peoples which the greek government co-signed and welcomed at the nato summit. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it has been proven a myth that the european union, the united states and nato are protecting turkey from aggression, which is challenging the sovereignty of greek islands and paving the way for painful co-operation in the aegean. the greek people have experienced the alternation of anti-people governance from new democracy/pasok to syriza, from syriza to new democracy, and always at a loss. only the people can save the people. the solution lies in the escalation of the workers' and people's struggles for immediate measures, abolition of vat, the special tax on fuel, the adjustment clause, with collective agreements, wage and pension increases, against the brutal exploitative system, the imperialist wars and the engagement with the liberation from nato and the european union, with power in the hands of the many, the producers of wealth.
prime minister of greece. – madam president, let me quickly address some of the points raised by your colleagues. first of all, thank you, mr weber, for making the observation – which i think is fair – that greece is indeed ‘back’, because the country today objectively bears no resemblance to the country that we took over when the greek people placed their confidence in us in july 2019. i think the progress that we have made is rather objective in terms of the performance of our economy and in terms of the intensity of the reforms that we have implemented. i would like to very much take note of what you said regarding the importance of structuring our democratic debate, be that at the european parliament or within our national governments, based on true facts rather than rumours or fake news, because it is impossible to have a proper debate if we continue to question the basic facts. let me take note of a point raised by mr papadimoulis, when he falsely claimed that greece has been the leader in the european union in terms of covid deaths per million people. this is a lie, mr papadimoulis. it is plain false, and it is unacceptable that you show up in this house and replicate this type of misinformation. so let us at least get our facts straight when it comes to the issues pertaining to the public debate. i think it is very important to make sure that we can have a public discourse based on facts that are mutually acceptable. let me switch to greek to quickly respond to mr androulakis. i will switch back to english for the rest of my answers. κύριε ανδρουλάκη, άκουσα με προσοχή τις παρατηρήσεις σας σχετικά με το ταμείο ανάκαμψης. μπορώ να σας διαβεβαιώσω, όπως έχετε ήδη διαπιστώσει, ότι οι προτάσεις μας στο ταμείο ανάκαμψης, οι οποίες έχουν εγκριθεί από την ευρωπαϊκή επιτροπή, έχουν ένα πολύ έντονο κοινωνικό πρόσημο. ενδεικτικά, να αναφέρω τα σημαντικά κονδύλια τα οποία κατευθύνουμε σε δράσεις, όπως η κατάρτιση των ανέργων, η στήριξη των μικρομεσαίων επιχειρήσεων προκειμένου να μπορέσουν να βελτιώσουν τις ψηφιακές τους δεξιότητες, ή προγράμματα οριζόντιας εξοικονόμησης ενέργειας, όπως το πρόγραμμα «εξοικονομώ», από το οποίο ωφελούνται όλα τα ελληνικά νοικοκυριά, αλλά κυρίως νοικοκυριά τα οποία είναι μη προνομιούχα, καθώς αυτά έχουν προνομιακή πρόσβαση σε αυτό το πρόγραμμα. ως προς το ζήτημα το οποίο θέσατε σχετικά με το εμπάργκο όπλων όσον αφορά την τουρκία, θα πω μόνο το εξής: προφανώς, κάθε ευρωπαϊκή χώρα είναι ελεύθερη να κινείται στον τομέα των εξαγωγών όπλων όπως αυτή νομίζει, πλην, όμως, θα πρέπει να λάβουν πολύ σοβαρά υπόψη τους όλες οι ευρωπαϊκές χώρες την πραγματικότητα η οποία υπάρχει αυτή τη στιγμή στη νοτιοανατολική μεσόγειο. η αλήθεια είναι ότι σήμερα μια χώρα η οποία φιλοδοξεί να γίνει μέλος της ευρωπαϊκής ένωσης, η τουρκία, ανοιχτά αμφισβητεί την κυριαρχία μιας άλλης χώρας, η οποία τυχαίνει να είναι μέλος της ευρωπαϊκής οικογένειας. αυτό είναι κάτι το οποίο οι ευρωπαϊκές χώρες πρέπει να το λάβουν σοβαρά υπόψη τους στις αποφάσεις τις οποίες λαμβάνουν σχετικά με τις επιλογές τους για τις πωλήσεις οπλικών συστημάτων σε τρίτες χώρες. let me switch back to english to respond to some of the points made by mr azmani. i took note, mr azmani, of your observations regarding press freedom in greece. i can assure you greece is a country where everyone can write and publish anything about anyone without any censorship or any control by the government. just take a look – and i have printed them here – these are just two indicative front pages from today’s newspapers which accuse me of being a liar, a sycophant. these are daily front pages from at least four daily newspapers in greece. the same media freedom applies to tv, to radio and, of course, the internet, where everyone is free to write anything about anyone. i would urge you to take some of these rankings which are published by non—governmental organisations with a grain of salt. does one really believe in this house that countries such as chad in africa have more media freedom than greece? because this is exactly what was presented in the rankings, which you claim. so when you get advice from your renew colleagues, i suggest you dig a little bit deeper in terms of the reality of the greek public discourse. we are a very dynamic and vibrant democracy, and i can assure you that freedom of the press is an accepted reality in greece for many decades now. the commission is going to publish its recommendations regarding rule of law, we expect them and we will look very carefully at what the commission has to say. at the end of the day, i think we can trust the commission to properly assess the state of the rule of law in all european countries. ms strik, thank you for your comments. i think you’ve raised some valid points, first of all regarding the lack of solidarity offered to greece, but also to other countries which are on the external borders of the european union. when it comes to the migration issue, i would however like to point out that it is the right of every european member state to protect its borders with full respect for fundamental rights. this is exactly what greece has been doing for the past three years, and we have been successful in protecting our borders and we have been successful in terms of breaking down the smuggler networks that have really exploited the desperation of weak and traumatised people by encouraging them to embark on a very dangerous journey. when you speak about pushbacks, i would urge you to think more in terms of ‘push—forwards’ rather than pushbacks. we have a statement between the european union and turkey, which requests turkey to cooperate in terms of managing migration flows across the aegean. when a sailing boat leaves a turkish marina with 100 or 200 people on board, i think we need to be naive to believe that this is happening without the knowledge of the turkish authorities. we know very well that turkey, back in march 2020, weaponised the migration issue and tried to push tens of thousands of desperate people across the greek border – exactly the same practice that lukashenko did in ukraine. there was nothing different. the playbook was written already by turkey back in march 2020. so please, when you look at these issues, which are sensitive issues, let us not repeat the turkish propaganda that they have no role in what is happening and that it is the greeks who are behaving inhumanely in terms of not protecting fundamental rights. we have an independent anti-corruption agency which is looking at allegations. some of the allegations, yes, are concerning and they need to be further explored. having said that, i would like to point out that the reception facilities – because you made the point of the reception facilities today – bear no comparison to the reception facilities under the previous, leftist government. take a look at the islands now. go visit samos or chios and you will find state of the art reception facilities that were funded by the european union which have no comparison to the disgrace of moria, which was a creation of the previous leftist and very ‘sensitive’ – quote unquote – government when it came to human rights issues. this reality no longer exists. one last point in terms of integration. i think you will find this interesting. yesterday, i welcomed to my office a 19—year—old iranian boy. his name is kourosh. kourosh made it to lesvos in 2019. he entered a greek school. he learned greek. he gave his entrance exams to a greek university. he will now be admitted to the best school in greece when it comes to electrical engineering, having aced his national entrance exams. this is how this government looks at the integration process of people who have reached european shores and have a right to be integrated into european society. now, when it comes to the point raised by mr beck, very quickly, i assure you that when it comes to our purchases of weapon systems, all the important weapon systems that we have purchased over the past three years have been european – and i do believe that we need to purchase more european systems when we have that option, and i believe we need more integration of our defence industry in order to make it more competitive. when it comes to the issues raised by mr fragkos regarding the brain drain, i can assure you that, for the first time, many young greeks who left the country over the past decade in search of a better job are seriously contemplating returning to the country, for two reasons – because, for the first time, we offer many good—paying jobs and because they have an overall confidence that this country is moving in the right direction. we still have a lot of work to do to reverse the brain drain problem, but i think we have made some important first steps. finally, when it comes to the points raised by mr papadimoulis, who was very, very eager to defend the previous government – i understand his point but i think it is improper, sometimes, madam president to bring issues pertaining to domestic politics to this house – i would only point out one reality, which is, mr papadimoulis, that seven years ago there was a referendum which was led by your government, which pushed greece to the precipice of us exiting the eurozone. it was only because you reversed the decision of the greek people and made the now—famous ‘kolotumba’, which is a somersault, a u-turn, that you signed the third programme and essentially condemned greece to four unnecessary years of austerity. this is one of the main reasons you were voted out of power and why we came into power in order to make sure that we move greece back to a proper growth track. finally, when it comes, again, to issues regarding the rule of law, we have an opportunity, madam speaker – and i will end here – to have a discussion in the greek parliament tomorrow regarding these issues. what is a fact today when it comes to independent justice and two of the closest collaborators of mr tsipras is that the minister in charge of anti-corruption has been sent to the highest court of the country accused of tampering with justice and intervening in justice, and a second minister in the tsipras government has also been sent to the highest court because he interfered in a public tender regarding broadcasting rights. so this is a track record of your government. you have two of your ministers who will be held accountable to justice for clear interventions when it comes to the rule of law. so let the facts speak rather than using this chamber to promote fake news. thank you again, madam president, for giving me the opportunity to address the european parliament.
thank you, prime minister, thank you dear colleagues. that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. regular exchanges with the heads of government of the member states are important to improve cooperation between the european parliament and the national level. during the financial crisis and for a long time afterwards, greece was seen as the eu's pet of the family. in this respect, greece has made a strong recovery and is now considered one of the fastest growing economies in europe. the main issues were how to further improve european integration in the fields of energy supply and security. greece is a strategically important country and protects europe's external borders. this requires eu support. mitsotakis stressed that there is only one side to be on in this war - the side of ukraine, which is fighting for its freedom and democracy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not when i was a young student, a professor said, "capitalism is the end of history. the age of crises and wars is over. i can't even count how many wars and crises i've had since then. but what i do know is that after every crisis, the gap between rich and poor has continued to widen. euro crisis, corona crisis, the aggressive war on ukraine and the geopolitical sanctions of the eu - all this is carried out on the backs of the ordinary population, on the backs of the workers. bread, fruit, vegetables, energy, electricity - everything is going to be more expensive. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they should work harder to finance gigantic armaments projects. the super-rich are getting richer, the poor are getting more numerous. what a mockery, what a mockery, ladies and gentlemen! no, we do not need more wage cuts, but an eu-wide price brake for oil companies, a tax on perverse wealth, not armaments. i hope for a hot autumn of social protest, where we make it clear: we do not pay for your crisis and for your wars.
mr president, mr minister bek, and mr commissioner schmit, you are all very welcome. we have launched the pillar of social rights at a time when we are experiencing the painful experience of the financial and economic crisis and the social crisis in many member states. what we didn't know was that soon after that, we would have much bigger crises that would affect everyone. we have seen this in the pandemic, and we have managed to develop good tools like sure as the european union. but i fear that this autumn and winter will be one of the greatest tests of solidarity in europe. the question is not whether we will just find nice words or whether we will try to turn this into national policy, as mr radtke has done, but whether we have concepts, whether we have strategies at european level. and it's not just about energy poverty and energy insecurity, it's also about the fact that we have to take away people's fear, which is the fear that they can't pay their heating bills, the fear that the money they have in their pocket is going to be less every day because inflation is just going to explode. i therefore welcome the commission's statement that it will do everything possible to ensure that a social summit is held. and my question to the council is this: do you understand what is coming? do you understand that if we do not do this now, the world and the eu will be different in the spring and that we really need to take action? it has already been said: energy prices are falling. it has been said that we should tax profits and that we should really relieve people with low incomes and those with medium incomes, and that we should not have a patchwork of measures in europe - one country adopting one policy, another another - but that we should really pool our resources. the various instruments have been mentioned, but i have the impression that even here in the room the situation in which we find ourselves has not yet been understood. so what answers does the commission give? what does the council do other than business as usual?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. social justice is the silk that holds the eu, our europe, together. if this quilt is torn apart, then we in europe, in the eu, have a democracy problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then we're talking about people falling into poverty. a year ago, many eu member states committed themselves to social europe in porto. the european pillar action plan sets out concrete actions and targets for 2030, such as reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by 15 million. 15 million! the way in which the member states negotiate with each other, however, is not the way i see in which we are going to achieve these objectives. whether in the negotiations on the social climate fund, the minimum wage or the repeated failure to coordinate social security systems, file 883: member states are reluctant to take concrete action. and again and again we fail to achieve this social europe, which is precisely what we need to keep us together. the next initiative on basic security minimum income must not be watered down again. we need a strong europe for our children, for our grandchildren, for all of us and for democracy.
mr. president, i have to ask you... only peace can end the war-induced inflation and the looming economic crisis. the most important thing is to restore peace to the continent. remember, we're just recovering from the pandemic. we need to strengthen our competitiveness if we are not to fall completely behind the us and china. this could be achieved by reducing the burden on citizens and businesses, i.e. by reducing taxes. covid has accelerated digitalization, and putin's aggression has accelerated the green transition. but we cannot put the cost on families and businesses, otherwise the whole union will be impoverished. in hungary, despite the opposition's pain, by reducing the recession and maximizing the price of basic goods, we have shown that this is possible. it would be good if the commission finally recognised that in exceptional times exceptional measures and flexibility are needed. brussels should help the governments of the member states to protect families, to abolish the measures that hinder economic recovery, to make development funds available to everyone. adapt to the realities of war. otherwise, the union will soon be nothing more than a scandal, where chinese tourists visiting can see the faded european culture.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr bek, mr commissioner schmit! we are talking today about the cost increases within the european union, the monetary union. and of course, it has something to do with the devastating war of aggression by the russian ruler putin against ukraine. but part of the truth - and that's why we have to talk about it today - is the total failure of the ecb. because inflation has gone from four to eight percent because of the war, but without that war, we'd still be at four percent, mr. bek. and that means twice as much inflation even without a war in the european union, a clear failure of the ecb. we need to talk about this here. we need a system that does not promote inflation, and we need to talk about reforms in the european union. of course, we need to talk about what we're going to do with the winners of the crisis. but why don't we discuss what we can do here in parliament? why more and more redistribution, more debt, which leads to more stress? why not have a real debate here in parliament about why we spend more than 200 million euros a year to come here to strasbourg? these are finances, these are euros that are spent unnecessarily, regardless of the many millions of tons of co2 that we burn to do so. so we need to talk about reforms that we can do here, and not just reforms that go over people's heads.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the social economy provides innovative solutions in education, health care, energy transition, housing and the delivery of social services. it can also be a pioneer in local green deals by creating alliances in territories involving citizens and enterprises in the climate transition. we call for better access to funding for social economy entities, in particular those run by women, as well as skills development to facilitate youth and under—represented groups to engage in the social economy. improvements to the enabling environment are urgently needed to allow social economy entities to operate effectively across europe, particularly through a common eu—level definition. we call for a calendar of actions for the implementation, for social conditionality for accessing public contracts and to enable partnerships and improve access for social economy entities. we call on the council to come up with a union—level definition of the social economy, and we call for the establishment of a statute for a european association in line with prior ep resolutions, education on opportunities and social economy for youth and, as we said, under—represented groups. this dossier could have been – it’s a personal comment – more ambitious, more future orientated than proposed. we as greens very much regret that it is not. but i am looking forward to improving the social economy sector with you, dear colleagues, and the commission, in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission wants to strengthen the social economy. that's basically right. but is it about making the social economy more social, more human, for example, by improving the working conditions of nurses? i'm not sure. the commission wants to make care climate-neutral. what a surprise! the german workers' welfare system is particularly enthusiastic about this. it is now exchanging its outdated fleet of vehicles for electric cars, again on the taxpayers' shoulders. because they're gonna have to pay for it. and what is the basic situation of the social economy in germany? social economy is mostly a front organization of the parties and the churches, and they enjoy special rights: special tax rights, special labor rights, and they don't need to be particularly transparent, accounting reports don't have to be published, which leads to really massive scandals popping up every month scandals about the bosses, where you can afford thick service cars, salaries over 150 000. the social economy, ladies and gentlemen, is not social in many respects, it is antisocial. it's draining the community and we have to fight it. we need transparency and fairness in the social economy.
i'm not going to tell you. you have indicated in some of your replies that we are not doing the homework for cop 15 during the week of preparation, but we are doing it every day here in parliament, you in the commission. and a milestone that we will be bringing to the cop is the eu deforestation law. i would like to ask you this question because we have been surprised to see that some of the products which are proven to contribute to deforestation, as your own impact assessment study makes clear - corn and rubber in this case - are not currently covered by this regulation. how do you justify this and what role does the automobile industry, for example, play in this?
yes, i can very well relate to that, because in particular with rubber, we know that it is a very big challenge for indonesia in terms of deforestation. it would therefore be good to look at the matter more closely, also as a collegiate body, with a view to the cop. but your answer also addresses an important problem, namely the question of monitoring, the implementation of our ambitious targets, which we have not only in the deforestation act, but also in the nature restoration act. the question is how do we make sure that the objectives we set are better implemented, that monitoring is better? what does the commission intend to do to learn from past failures?
thank you very much for giving me your space. and i’ll be very brief in trying to make the circle to come back to where we started, because the question was eu ambitions on biodiversity ahead of cop 15. and i think if we’ll look at the restoration law which you presented last week, it is already quite good. but the crucial point is, what means of governance do we have? what means of actually enforcing what is there as an ambition? and it’s a bit the same on the global level, whereas it is much easier within the european union because there we have the structures where the commission can actually tell member states, well, if you do not abide by the law, then we might start writing letters and later infringement procedures, which is not possible on the global level. so how do you think might the restoration law influence the negotiations at the cop 15? and especially, how can it be perceived in the global south that the eu, or generally spoken the global north, does not come forward as colonialist, telling the global south how to act on biodiversity?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. standing here defending the financial industry, i didn't think i would. but it is. yesterday, someone from the federal association of public banks told me that nobody would take the green taxonomy seriously if nuclear power and gas were included. in other words, we have an excellent compass for europe's energy transition and we are now working on it because the decaying french nuclear plants are in dire need of money for renovation. honestly, this is absurd. at the same time, those who vote for nuclear power and gas tomorrow will receive a thank you letter from vladimir putin. he's already rubbing his hands because he can sell his gas as sustainable in the future and he'll make billions more. i appeal to manfred weber and the epp: be reasonable! do not destroy europe's seal of approval for the financial sector, our seal of approval for europe's energy independence from putin!
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that he gets 11.3 cents a kilowatt hour, 35 years, inflation-adjusted. do you really think that's cheap?
blue-card speech. – i would be very interested in knowing how nuclear energy can actually lower the prices for our citizens because, as i just told you, in the uk nuclear energy is only viable when you pay a premium which is about three times the premium which is paid for wind or solar energy. and all the more, i would like to know where in europe would we be able to source the uranium we need to run those nuclear power plants?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i listened very carefully to the previous speakers and virtually all those who opposed the rejection of the delegated act did so on the grounds of security of supply, of rising energy prices. but investing in this bridge technology is not prohibited by the taxonomy, that's not the point. this is a distortion of the debate, and you are really trying to greenwash this investment. and that's not what these applicants want. it is not just the thousands of people who are writing to us now who have understood this connection. the commission's council of experts, which was specifically appointed by the commission, also understood this connection. the aim of the taxonomy was to implement a common european understanding of what constitutes a sustainable investment. a taxonomy that labels nuclear power and fossil gas as sustainable has nothing to do with this objective. she's greenwashing. only where sustainable is in, must also be sustainable on. that's what taxonomy is all about. let us not mislead consumers who want to invest in sustainable financial products. we have the power to make sure there is no deception. let's use that power!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. climate policy is security policy. we are now witnessing in a brutal way how our dependence on russian gas and uranium makes us vulnerable. we must therefore do everything we can to become independent of fossil fuels and to push back putin's influence. putin would benefit from the taxonomy and lose the climate. it is no coincidence that the russian energy companies gazprom, rosatom and lukoil are among the biggest lobbyists for von der leyen's taxonomy proposal. we hear the calls of ukrainian mps and voices from civil society asking us to stop the intake of gas and nuclear. taxonomy is the green seal of approval for financial investments. that is what many people have said in the debate today. the inclusion of atom and gas would render this seal useless. it was a mistake, commissioner mcguinness, to make this proposal - security, finance and climate policy. it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to this mistake and to appeal. that is why i would ask you to do this with us tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu taxonomy now has the chance to become a real eu gold standard, a benchmark for sustainable investment. we need a taxonomy that is really credible, a label that says, "where it says sustainable, it says sustainable". nuclear power and fossil energy are not sustainable. every euro spent on electricity and gas is reinforcing structures that we do not want in the long term, and we are lacking in sun, wind and water. in times of war in europe we see all the more clearly the mess that natural gas and nuclear power are putting us in. nuclear power plants in the middle of crisis zones are extremely dangerous, and putin is using the gas supply as a political tool against europe. we do not want to be dependent on energy imports from russia, either for fossil gas or for uranium or for nuclear fuel rods. what we want is massive investment in renewable energy and financial markets that have a real appetite to support the energy transition with credible standards. the only thing to do is to say yes to a taxonomy without nuclear and fossil fuels.
in writing. the eu green deal and the fit for 55 programme stipulate that the eu must become climate neutral by 2050. this will, of course, have implications for investment. european financial institutions and companies will have to invest massively in sustainable technologies. but who decides what's sustainable and what's not? this is where eu taxonomy comes in: it classifies all economic activities in the eu according to their environmental sustainability. the commission proposed to include gas and nuclear energy as transitional energy sources for achieving co2 neutrality in the taxonomy. the european parliament is firmly opposed to this inclusion and is now voting against the inclusion of gas and nuclear energy. that means you can't invest in these energy sources anymore. the afd firmly believes that gas and nuclear power are part of the solution to a greener economy, not part of the problem. we need more investment in the latest generation of nuclear power stations and more research for the establishment of thorium power stations. by prohibiting investment in gas and nuclear power, we are taking europe back to the stone age.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not bosnia and herzegovina alone has received some eur 1.5 billion in eu aid and assistance by 2020. last time, there was 250 million covid aids on top. the conditions for this are above all the strengthening of democracy and the fight against corruption. in 2007, bosnia was still ranked 84th on the corruption index. the country ranks 110th in the billions of dollars in aid. just as in the case of greece, bosnia can do what it wants. the money is being transferred anyway, and as a reward, they want to bring the country into the eu, even though it is highly corrupt, even though it does virtually nothing to stop the uncontrolled mass migration into the eu through its territory, even though it would be a net recipient for decades. i wonder where the money is going to come from and why would anyone want to bring a failed country into the eu in the first place? the accession process should be completed immediately. the money must instead be used for the benefit of the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. enlargement policy does not take place in a vacuum. we see russian, but also chinese influence destabilizing the region. and we see in bosnia and herzegovina how an ethno-nationalist boycotts and divides, how minorities are persecuted and hard-won progress is put under pressure. it is now up to the eu to show solidarity with the democratic forces in the country, to put pressure on the elections to be held in october, to ensure that they are free and fair. but what is our commissioner for enlargement doing? relaxed fireplace nights with the very forces that prevent that. and that shapes the image of the eu in the minds of the people in the region. we are not the guardians of democracy and the rule of law in your country. my appeal to the commission is that it should not allow enlargement policy to remain a mere pawn in the interests of member states but that it should become a powerful geopolitical instrument. you too have a lot of work to do in bosnia and herzegovina, but you too have the power to make the eu not just the hope but the promise of a better future for the people of bosnia and herzegovina. (the speaker refuses to speak in accordance with the procedure of the 'blue card' of ladislav ilčić.)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, despite all efforts of the european parliament, serbia is not much more democratic than it was after the 2020 election boycott. it is a country that still lacks genuine democratic plurality, media freedoms and political culture, which will prepare it for the eu. yet i do not want to go into details of the report, but instead i would like to remind president vučić about the utmost need to align with europe on our common stance. i truly believe that the russian invasion of ukraine is a watershed moment in modern europe. the eu expects from the new government full alignment in terms of foreign policy and introduction of sanctions against russia. we must use this momentum to break serbian ties with the kremlin and help the country turn clearly towards the eu. there are indeed forces in serbia that represent progressive critical voices, either in politics or in civil society, academia and media circles. our task is to make sure that they are heard, protected and have international support.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, dear friends of kosovo, let me thank all colleagues who contributed so actively to this report. this year’s kosovo report comes at a special moment, the one when we see again the horrors of war in europe. as kosovo has also recently experienced war, its government demonstrates full solidarity with ukraine, for which i want to thank them. this year’s report only scratches the surface of the challenges and issues that are ahead for the kosovo government. yet it also clearly underlines the long path kosovo has made in the reforms and its euro integration. kosovo keeps proving its democratic capacities by organising free, fair and transparent elections. it is indeed a great example for all western balkan states of how to promote and nurture democratic standards, political dialogue and freedom of expression. the media landscape is diverse and represents the real control mechanism for the ruling parties. however, we need to do more to ensure that journalists remain independent and are protected from the party-affiliated tycoons. significant results have been achieved in the areas of the fight against corruption and organised crime. the rule of law reforms need to be continued in line with the venice commission opinion and eu standards and for the benefit of all kosovo’s citizens. these reforms, including the judiciary and anti-corruption agency reinforcement, are crucial for the european reform agenda and kosovo’s advancement on the eu accession path. yet the rule of law means equality for all. therefore, i call on the government of kosovo to implement the constitutional court judgment regarding the visoki dečani monastery and demonstrate that it does not have a selective approach when it comes to the application of rule of law. an essential element on kosovo’s eu integration path is certainly the dialogue between kosovo and serbia, which conditions the eu membership of both countries. let me emphasise once again that without a comprehensive, legally binding agreement on the normalisation of relations between kosovo and serbia, accession to the union will not occur. finding a way to accommodate it within kosovo’s constitutional framework will lead one big step closer to the end of the dialogue and finalisation of this lengthy process with the mutual recognition. furthermore, environmental protection must become a priority for kosovo. one of the main big steps on that pathway is the energy transition. it is high time to finally adopt and start implementing the long-awaited energy strategy, which will pave the way for decarbonisation of kosovo’s energy mix and open the door for more renewables. we need to think in the longer perspective and realise that the cold not only kills citizens but will also kill the economy once the carbon adjustment mechanism enters into force. the citizens of kosovo are well aware they have a strong ally in the european parliament and me personally, as i have repeatedly reiterated the need for immediate granting of visa liberalisation, which is long overdue despite the fact that kosovo has met all the criteria. i wish to see the harvest of our joint efforts in the future, since kosovo’s citizens deserve to live in a country that enjoys full international respect and a clear european integration perspective.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome this report, which i consider both balanced and fair. my concern is that, as in the case of georgia, we are failing to support our friends in a time of great instability. it is inexcusable that kosovo is still not recognised by some member states for reasons which have more to do with domestic political considerations than with questions of kosovar sovereignty. we must resolve the issues of visa liberalisation on the basis of the principle of fairness and a level playing field for the western balkan countries. the government of kosovo has made commendable progress in combating corruption, enforcing the rule of law and promoting economic development. let's take our relationship to the next level.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, i would like to thank you mainly for your very positive feedback on this report, but also for your continued support for possible to advance on its reform and eu integration path. kosovo has made a significant progress in recent years in many areas, maturing as a democracy and as an international partner. the success of the kurti government will be measured in delivering on key issues. judiciary, rule of law, energy transition, but also on education and health. and that is my main message for the kosovo government: you have a stable majority and still a fresh mandate - use this! kosovo’s international priority remains the brussels-led dialogue with serbia. the deals on energy in the north of kosovo and on missing persons are important as they will contribute to the further normalisation of the situation and mutual trust between albanians and serbs. eu special envoy miroslav lajčák has our full support and we wish to end this process soon, since there is a unique transatlantic alignment on this. my second message is for kosovo’s international partners. the last eu summit created excuse me, a major disappointment for kosovo, but also the whole western balkan region. i honestly hoped that when delivering this speech i would be congratulating kosovo’s citizens on visa liberalisation. yet not a single delivery was made to any of the countries of the region. dear french and dutch colleagues, citizens of mexico, nicaragua and qatar can travel freely to europe, but still kosovo’s can’t. i deeply regret that as it sparks euroscepticism and undermines our credibility in the eyes of our partners in kosovo. we do need to do our homework here. i invite you all to convince your national governments to finally deliver what kosovo deserved a long time ago. free movement for its citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the honourable member kempa for her work as rapporteur on this very important and timely report. various points of reference, including the global network against food crises, are raising alarm about the acute food insecurity, which has been greatly aggravated by the russian aggression against ukraine. and in this context, the report prepared by the honourable kemper provides a very timely and comprehensive guidance. as the commissioner responsible also for humanitarian aid. i particularly appreciate the importance that the report gives to the humanitarian angle of this problem, because, let us not forget, rising food insecurity will hit the most vulnerable the soonest and the strongest. the eu has reacted quickly and resolutely. let me mention some examples. we have mobilised emergency funding of over eur 620 million in additional humanitarian assistance on top of initial allocations, and these have an important food component. we mobilised eur 225 million in a food and resilience facility for the southern neighbourhood. we have organised pledging conferences for the sahel, for the horn of africa and syria. these events helped raise funding also from other actors. we are furthermore setting up solidarity lanes to help ukraine export its grain through alternative routes. rail, roads and inland waterways are to be used easier while the black sea ports remain blocked. and in this context, we do support the efforts by the united nations for de-blocking these ports, because they remain the most feasible export route for significant amounts of grain. following the commission’s assessment, recently the council adopted conclusions on a team europe response to global food insecurity. in this way, we have set up the framework for a joint response from the eu and its member states in the following strands of action: firstly, a solidarity strand to step up emergency relief; secondly, a production and resilience strand to scale up support to sustainable production capacities; thirdly, a trade strand to get grains out of ukraine; and fourthly, a multilateral strand to embed our response in effective multilateral partnerships. president von der leyen recently announced a proposal to mobilise an additional eur 600 million from the reserves of the european development fund and this funding, if confirmed by the council, should support african, caribbean and pacific countries to fight the food crisis. in our efforts, we have to combine short-term action with longer-term measures. we have to support local production, ensure access to food while making food systems more sustainable and resilience. and i look forward to our exchange today.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, the report calls on the eu to implement policies that guarantee the right to food security and sovereignty in developing countries. this, as you know, is an objective of the sustainable development goals, which are, let’s face it, tragically far from being achieved. in fact, the situation has worsened due to the ongoing war and its consequences on the food supply chain. it has also been worsened by financial speculation on food prices. this report, i am pleased to see, calls on the commission to adopt measures to end financial speculation on food and agricultural commodities. according to the 2022 global report on food crises, nearly 193 million people experienced crisis—level or worse food security in 2021, an increase of 40 million on 2020. the negative food security outlook is projected to continue or worsen this year, and the global food systems impact of the crisis in ukraine will only contribute to further decline. this report, if passed, needs to be acted upon. our words here today won’t provide a single extra calorie for people in developing countries. what will do it, though, is if we act on our words. we need action, and we need it now.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. for a long time the greens in germany thought that only a weak army was a good army. the agricultural policy of the european commission has a similar impression. mr timmermans has launched a study on food safety. the aim is obvious: how can we weaken european agriculture even more? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. more and more people are fighting for their very survival because of war, hunger in north africa, in parts of asia. we in the western world fight for calories and kilograms. 40% of food is thrown away in households alone. and the commission wants to replace 'conventional' with 'bio' and further set-aside from 2023. but the poor and hungry people are not interested in schickimicki discussions. reality will catch up with us here, too, very quickly. people want to know who delivers grain, when, how fast, how they'll get their fill. we cannot continue to watch as warmongering putin makes geopolitics and brings stolen ukrainian grain as a bargaining chip to his friends. i therefore call for a food summit as soon as possible. we need more agriculture, not less, worldwide.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not the war in ukraine and thus putin are blamed for a global food crisis. but that has little to do with the facts: in the three countries most affected by a supply crisis - south sudan, somalia and yemen - the problem is the war, not the ukrainian one. only two countries, egypt and indonesia, are more than 10% dependent on ukrainian grain imports, the rest of the countries are only in the low single-digit range. and these countries could be easily supplied if ukraine would clear its ports of its own mines. this is as much a part of the uncomfortable truth as the fact that africa could easily feed itself if the population did not continue to grow to the limit and if it did not continue to cede fertile farmland to china. africa is responsible here. we would be well advised to focus on the facts instead of maintaining a single russian enemy image. this is a complex process that's going on here. then problems would be solved instead of aggravated.
mr president, food security in developing countries deteriorated before the covid-19 pandemic crisis, but it has increased considerably following the conflict between russia and ukraine. at present, 800 million people are at risk of famine, reflecting the unequal distribution of food. the current conflict in ukraine highlights the vulnerabilities of the global food system and the dependence of developing countries, which import a large proportion of their cereals from russia and ukraine. in order to achieve the sustainable development goals, in particular the sdg 2 zero hunger, we need to ensure that our trade policies do not interfere with development goals and put more emphasis on food sovereignty. food sovereignty, i.e. the right of peoples and countries to define their own agricultural and food policy, will make countries less dependent on national markets and, therefore, on food imports. the great challenge is to ensure that everyone has access to sufficient food, because the right to food is a right... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, thank you. dear mr fiala, you promised your voters that you would kick out the corrupt. that you will defend the rule of law. and you won against andrej babiš. now you are taking over the presidency of the council. and i am sure you know that corruption is not only an issue in the czech republic, but in the entire eu. where babiš tried to prevent justice, the polish government is trying to take over the entire justice system, and where babiš took millions, orbán and his cronies are taking billions, not just millions. autocrats are the biggest threat to the eu and i am very thankful that you are taking the autocrat that is invading our neighbour ukraine very seriously. but i think you need to take those following the putin playbook inside the eu equally seriously. it’s up to you to set this on the agenda and to make sure that the attacks on democracy and rule of law by the polish and hungarian governments play a role in your presidency. and the decision on freezing funds to hungary will come to the table during your presidency. make sure that the promise you gave to your voters doesn’t stop at the czech border and that you’re delivering on that promise also during your presidency.
i have to say, madam president, mr. prime minister, it couldn't be more appropriate, the moment of handover. the european union is in good hands with the czech republic, the future of the european union is in good hands. the czech republic stands for eu enlargement, prague knows how to mediate between east and west, can use crises to create opportunities, strengthen resilience. the eastern partnership, for example, is written in czech. it was launched by prague during its last presidency in 2009, opening the door to dialogue between the eu and, among others, armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova and, ladies and gentlemen, ukraine. this is the courage and foresight that the eu needs, mr prime minister, as it must reorient itself - externally, in other words, towards a common energy policy, with less dependence, in short, geopolitically, but also internally, in its own machinery. we need to be able to make faster and better decisions to have global weight. and these reforms for the eu itself, they cannot wait. the czech republic cannot stop here. the 'rethink, rebuild, repower' principle also applies to the design of the european union. the czech republic must be the horse of the eu's train now. i'm asking you to really pay attention to it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. look closely: this symbolizes the council's attitude towards the house of democracy here in europe. the debate on the european council is no longer taking place and you apologize for having other commitments. and this is precisely the attitude towards the citizens who have put their hands to the wheel, who have put forward proposals for the reform of europe and who have written in our register that there should be treaty amendments, and that requires a convention. and parliament triggered article 48, and the president of parliament wrote this back to the council and said that they must act. and what do they do? they're not even here for the debate. it is always the goalkeeper's fear of the penalty that endangers the future of europe. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote.
rapporteur. – madam president, we are now voting on the amendment of the rules of procedure to allow for a hybrid committee working regime in the future. the working group on the rules of procedure has been mandated by our president to prepare a report to implement the decision of the cop of 2 june, and this decision was supported by all the political groups. we have prepared this report under a lot of time pressure and at short notice. our working method is based on consensus, and we achieved a consensus in this working group. on this basis, we proposed my report that is presented today for vote. on monday, it was supported by a broad majority in the afco committee. dear colleagues, i now count on you also to support to amend rule 216 of our rules of procedure and to respect the consensus that has been found first in the cop, then in the afco working group, then in the afco, and i hope also here in the plenary.
mr president, vice-president, so boris johnson decided to withdraw from the northern ireland protocol unilaterally, the northern ireland protocol that he signed himself. he says it’s not working. well, the northern ireland economy is doing better than the one of great britain. what is not working is brexit, but everybody knew that from the start. what is not working is obviously also the democratic understanding of the dup, who now are blocking the formation of a government once they’ve lost the elections. boris johnson and the dup, they’re only acting in their own interests. they don’t care about northern ireland or the uk. they only think about themselves and they need a scapegoat, so they use the one they have put up before – the european union. they keep up this conflict, which is dangerous, especially regarding the specific history of the good friday agreement. i would like to thank vice-president šefčovič for his patience and firmness, facing a counterpart who is not even looking for solutions. and i want to say to all the people in the uk and especially northern ireland, we will keep a light on.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am afraid i have to add a little water to the wine, because not all that glitters is gold at the eib either. i would like to make two points: first, the sharp decline in transparency, which has already been mentioned. in 2010, 96% of all projects were published three weeks before the board of directors approved them. in 2020, it will be only 60%. this is a very worrying development and does not reflect the clear demands of our parliament for improvements. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual implementation of the budget. the status quo is simply maintained without any significant improvement. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the matter. in this context, however, i would like to point out a questionable investment which has already been mentioned: the eib invested in the biontech/pfizer covid-19 vaccine by signing a €100 million loan facility in june 2020. i cannot imagine, mr president hoyer, that you were authorized, under your instructions, to take a decision and invest in an experimental vaccine which, moreover, had not yet been authorized for marketing. and if you have taken this decision under political pressure, then you are questioning the independence of the eib. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eib is able to meet its financial commitments. i ask you to consider that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 july 2022.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the relations of the russian government and diplomatic networks with extremist, populist, anti-european and certain other european parties in connection with the war (2022/2743 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, here is the latest war news: in the middle of aggression and genocide, a leader of the extreme right in italy has been meeting with the russian ambassador four or five times in recent times. what for? to discuss what? this is not the first time that the extreme right is cooperating and doing business with russia. the name is konstantin malofeev. he is a russian billionaire who has been investing in both the criminals of donbas, but also in consolidating right—wing networks in the european union. but to be fair, this is not just a right—wing problem. we have left—wing politicians who have been apologising about putin’s behaviour, and it doesn’t bring much to forbid foreign influence and foreign financing if hungarian banks are now financing the right wing in france. how are we going to deal with that? so we have to start de—putinising ourselves and our parties and it should be an aim and a task for the extreme parties just as much as for the mainstream. let’s question ourselves. let’s do it better.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is not surprising that we right-wing parties are once again being attacked for exposing the many violations of democracy by the other parties. we can already see this in the many successful lawsuits brought by the afd before the federal constitutional court against the attacks on the basic law by the old parties. the phrase is now being used by the putin supporter to denigrate us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such exchanges are common in international diplomacy. that doesn't make you an understanding person or a friend. and unlike you, i speak from experience as a former diplomat. i've lived in dictatorships for nine years, but if you don't know diplomacy, you're just going to let your emotions get the best of you. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. we, on the other hand, have the welfare of our nation and peaceful coexistence with other countries in view. if we're being accused of that, it says something about you. many of you have already moved far from the citizenry and are now paying homage to hypermoral rather than representing the interests of the people who elected you. think about it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not shell, exxonmobil and chevron made nearly 20 billion euros in profit in the first quarter of 2022 alone, more than double the first quarter of 2021. the big oil companies are making billions in profits. while more and more people are struggling to pay their energy bills, some corporations are doing very well. this is not only unfair but also economically burdensome. according to the european central bank, the profits of some corporations are one of the drivers of massive inflation. we need instruments to limit excessive profits. we greens are therefore proposing a 50% tax on excess profits. another part of the profits will go to investments in renewable energy, which we urgently need. we call on the eu finance ministers to take this step together. spain, britain and italy are doing it. these are good examples, but they are not enough. countries like germany should follow. the economic crisis will be extremely severe, unemployment will rise, and inequality will increase. that is why we need the tax on profits, and we need it now.
thank you very much. i would like to ask colleagues to speak on—topic on issues.
mr president, mr president-in-office, and madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we're discussing random profits today, or excess profits tax, whatever you want to call it. i would like to make it quite clear that in the present situation, anyone who is discussing tax increases at an inflation rate of over 8% is discussing further increases in inflation. because one thing is clear: tax increases are priced by companies and only lead to further increases in the cost of products. with all the anger, with all the worry, with all the uncertainty, we as politicians cannot panic and go on a simple voice-over and suggest to the citizens that increased taxes will cause prices to fall in an inflation. if you believe that, you didn't pay attention to the market economy in the eighth or ninth grade. what we need now is a serious discussion about interest rate increases, a serious discussion about tax cuts. people need more net of gross to be able to afford more.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it must be seen as a mockery by the citizens. ukraine is fighting for its survival. russia's cuts to oil and gas supply have many fearing the winter cold. gigantic sums of tax money are being mobilised to support ukraine, but also to support the economy, which is suffering from these high energy prices. but those who profit from the enormous price increases should not be held accountable? you don't want them to be involved? there are already agreements at oecd level to be able to extract exactly such incidental profits. because this is not about innovation like with vaccines. it's not about anyone being particularly smart. it is simply, simply and poignantly about a monopoly, about the people who have put the gas discount - which the german government has distributed to help people who have to be mobile - largely into their own pockets. this has nothing to do with the fact that we need a free market that can respond to these things.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the cotonou agreement retains the weight of a colonial legacy of centuries. we see in it the export of models of state and economic governance, with the aim of creating a regulatory and institutional framework that promotes the liberalisation of markets and opens the door to large european capital. we see in it the perpetuation of relations of domination, the application of conditionality measures which are nothing more than instruments of blackmail and subjugation. in it we see the inhumanity of a migration policy that externalizes borders, that ignores underlying causes, with responsibilities of the european union in destabilizing and aggression against sovereign countries, violating human rights and defying international law. the european union insists on a post-cotonou agreement which maintains this neo-colonial cut in favour of the interests of its main powers and economic groups, without really contributing to the sovereign development of the acp countries. the development of these countries will be facilitated by the cancellation of their structural debts, by the transfer of technology, by universal public services, by the improvement of infrastructure and by technical support and training, underpinning the sovereign strategies of these countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the fact that we are talking today about the need to postpone the adoption of the post-cotonou agreement for the third time by another year is a sign of absolute poverty for the eu. i have never been a big fan of continuing the acp format because the three regions have very different relations with the eu and we need a genuine governance of our own, which is best for africa as a whole. but this circus of a mixed or a pure eu agreement, which is being staged by the council and here by one member state in particular, really crowns the whole thing. we must not lose heart in the face of an energy and food crisis. all that matters is the provision of livelihoods, the creation of jobs, infrastructure projects and climate and energy partnerships. with this latest manoeuvre, ladies and gentlemen, europe will not be making geopolitics and, above all, a credible policy for africa. i urge the presidency of the council, the high representative and the president of the commission to take action at the highest level, put an end to this unworthy game and work towards europe's capacity to act.
mr president, the negotiations for the post-cotonou agreement are based on a common foundation and focus on the specific needs of the regions, namely democracy and human rights, sustainable, social and human development. today we have the opportunity to implement our programme, including a sustainable partnership on an equal footing with the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific). as vice-chairman of this delegation, i am pleased that the amendment on the duty of memory, which we had included in the agreements, has been implemented by the measures my member state, germany, has just taken in returning the benin bronzes. i hope it'll make some copies. it is also a sign of our willingness to take on our common history in a spirit of mutual understanding. we wish to engage in a fruitful dialogue based on mutual respect and to have constructive exchanges with the strong involvement of the european parliament and the active support of the member states.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by katalin cseh, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud annual report 2020 (2021/2234 (ini)) (a9-0175/2022).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the commissioner spoke of the remarkable track record of the commission in the fight against fraud. that’s quite a bold statement, i have to say, commissioner. i mean, transparency international says that in hungary, for example, at least 25% of eu funds are frauded, embezzled, stolen, to a large extent by orbán, his family and his friends, and saying that that is a remarkable track record – i would not agree. actually, this house does not agree. you spoke of the conditionality mechanism, which clearly shows that this is not a question of a lack of tools, it’s a question of a lack of political will, because this house sued your commission last year for inactivity, for not using this tool of the conditionality mechanism. it took the commission a year and a half almost to launch the procedure. now we’re at the stage where the commission has to decide how much of the eu funding is going to be frozen to hungary. once again, parliament did the homework for the commission. we launched a study today that every single cent of hungarian eu funds has to be frozen. can i give you the study now? show us that there is a real political will in the commission to do something about fraud, not only in hungary but in all eu member states.
please, you know me: the first round of speakers for all the group is a little more flexible, but if we do it for everybody, then we will be out. we will stick to the time please in the second round. if you are in the first round, no problem, but if you are not in the first round, then we stick to the time. i think this shows respect to the other speakers.
the speakers have more than one minute, but that you have to clear up in your group.
yes, but you are careful. if there are things which are not proven, they cannot be mentioned against one of the colleagues. so we continue with colleague rookmaker.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 july 2022.
the next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the arrest of cardinal zen and the trustees of the 612 fund in hong kong (2022/2751 (rsp)).
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not alone in its concern to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the arrest of 90-year-old former archbishop cardinal zen for alleged violations of the controversial national security law is a sad day and evidence of the persecution of christians in china, which is likely to intensify. unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly clear that china is not prepared to respect human rights, which are universal. we are witnessing the end of "one country, two systems", the end of hong kong and the freedom of the people of hong kong. we see china treating its own people cruelly in hong kong, xinjiang, tibet, and we have grave concerns about taiwan. we cannot allow these human rights violations in china to continue to expand. we must now do everything possible with all national representatives to secure the release of 90-year-old cardinal zen, to give hope to the people of hong kong and the world that there is a place, europe, where they can live in peace and freedom.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we all condemn china's actions in the face of cardinal zen and the four confidants. and that's a good thing! but i miss the determination of parliament and the commission to speak out clearly and forcefully against the persecution of dissidents, especially christians. we find strong words about the supreme court's decision on abortion. but we are silent when christians or rohingya, bahai and sikhs or others are persecuted in china and india, in burma and north korea and especially in muslim countries. we prefer to do business with these countries. we all need to be clear about this: our silence is an encouragement to the rulers of these countries to continue on their oppressive path. and we don't realize that in our own country, in the west, the prohibitions on speech are also growing alarmingly. let us raise our voices to stop this. we're not just helping cardinal zen, but millions of people who are persecuted for their faith. the old saying from schiller's don carlos, "sire, give religious freedom!" is very timely again.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 july 2022.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation of indigenous rights defenders and environmentalists in brazil, including the murder of dom phillips and bruno pereira (2022/2752 ((rsp)).
author. – madam president, dom phillips, bruno pereira, ari uru-eu-wau-wau, maria da luz benício, paulo paulino guajajara and many more: all killed in brazil simply because they defended their home against destruction, against deforestation, against mining, or wanted to write about it, like dom phillips. brazil is the fourth most dangerous place in the world for environmental defenders, and this high number goes hand-in-hand with the highest destruction rates in the amazon ever. in the first half of 2022 alone, 3 750 square kilometres of rainforest have been destroyed – gone forever. and this is not something that just happens. it is the consequence of an agenda of the bolsonaro government, such as defunding institutions and weakening environmental legislation. it is the consequence of verbal attacks and intimidation towards environmental defenders by the president himself. and it is also the consequence of an extractivist model that also profits the eu. the eu is, for example, the second biggest importer of brazilian soy, and thus adds more pressure on the ecosystems in brazil. and this situation is unbearable and needs to stop. the eu needs to put more pressure on the bolsonaro government to better protect indigenous people and environmental defenders. the eu has to make its trade policy finally sustainable and its supply chains deforestation-free. and the brazilian government has to revoke the dangerous weakening of environmental law and better fund protection agencies. and i ask the senate not to vote on a package of laws that will further weaken forest protection and indigenous people.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, the worsening situation of indigenous, environmental and human rights defenders in brazil is a key concern for the eu, which is regularly addressed in the eu—brazil mechanism for political dialogue and cooperation at different levels. brazil is one of the eu’s strategic partners, traditionally a strong advocate for human rights and a partner in multilateral fora. during the recent dedicated eu—brazil dialogue on human rights held on 16 june, the eu’s special representative for human rights, eamon gilmore, stressed the deteriorating situation for human rights defenders in many parts of brazil. he specifically addressed the brutal murder of dom phillips and bruno pereira and emphasised the need for a full investigation. these specific, tragic cases highlight the need for a more comprehensive effort in brazil to address the challenge of violence against indigenous and environmental defenders, including full and transparent investigations to bring those responsible to justice. over the past few months, these concerns have been voiced in a series of high—level visits to brazil, including by eu high representative borrell in november, by the eu’s special representative for human rights gilmore in december, and by myself in april, when i visited brazil to discuss in particular our legislative proposal on deforestation, which aims to protect the rich biodiversity of our forests, which as many of you tonight mentioned, are the lungs of our planet. and protection of our forests was also what dom phillips and bruno pereira were fighting for. our outreach encompassed meetings with the federal and state authorities, including the legislative and judiciary bodies, as well as with indigenous peoples’ organisations and human rights and environmental defenders. diplomatic outreach is also carried out by the eu delegation in brazil in a team—europe approach at all levels – federal and sub—federal, with state and non-state actors. continuous engagement with civil society, including human rights, indigenous and environmental defenders and organisations, is another important component of our ongoing work to show our support and to raise awareness. we also provide financial and technical support through our cooperation activities. current eu cooperation to support indigenous peoples under the european instrument for democracy and human rights and civil society organisations and local authorities totals more than eur 3 million. our actions focus on the urgent protection of the rights of indigenous peoples and forest defenders, with a special focus on women, as well as on supporting indigenous groups, advocating for their rights at national and international levels, and promoting sustainable development. in addition to the dialogue with human rights defenders across brazil, the eu delegation also supports the national human rights council to protect human rights defenders and freedom of expression. i want to reassure this house and their families, to whom i reiterate my personal and sincere condolences, that the eu will continue to monitor closely the case around the brutal murder of dom phillips and bruno pereira. we recognise the european parliament’s strong commitment on this important matter and reiterate the eu’s determination to work with brazil in supporting the rights of indigenous people and human rights defenders, notably in the amazon.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 july 2022.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in the nagorno-karabakh autonomous province of tajikistan (2022/2753 (rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the first question is: what is the european parliament doing about the human rights situation in a country which is relatively far from us - apparently far from us? and yet i can tell you right now: there are two reasons which have always motivated me to speak out in the field of human rights. the first reason is that i used to be a journalist, i used to work for a newspaper, and i know what it's like to try to do your job as a journalist well, to report objectively. and there are many countries in the world that need support, that need words of admonition and the outside eye to strengthen the backs of journalists here in particular. this is also the case in tajikistan, and particularly in the autonomous province, where the state power is simply trampling on the rules of a democratic culture. we must take the floor as members of parliament. because we have no other weapons. parliamentarians have the opportunity to intervene with their words and as speakers. we can have a very clear focus on something. i always compare it to a headlight. we have the opportunity today to make a difference in the human rights situation of these people and to focus our attention on that. the suppression of freedom of expression, the restriction of democracy, the persecution of political dissidents in many countries and today especially in tajikistan - if we talk about this today, we are giving these people the opportunity to make their concerns known to the public - to the wider public. that is our duty as trustees. if people are going out there and they are afraid that police violence will prevent them from expressing their opinions, then we have a duty as parliamentarians to intervene. then we need to give them the voice they may not have. the second reason i would like to mention is the geopolitical situation. all these countries in central asia are facing the same pressure situation right now. russia will put enormous pressure on these countries, and that is precisely why we must keep a closer eye on this region. that is what i consider to be responsibility as a member of parliament, to speak up for those who are themselves oppressed, who cannot speak up for themselves. i would like to continue to do so as a member of parliament.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. far to the east of tajikistan lies the gorno-badakhshan autonomous province, which is probably unknown to 99.9% of the population of europe. that is not a reason why this parliament should not also look at human rights there. it is not only when some blood-soaked dictator of a great country invades his neighbour's country in violation of international law that we are disturbed, but also when in an unknown region the citizens of that country suffer repression by their own government which violates human rights. this is exactly what is happening in eastern tajikistan: freedom of the press and freedom of expression are being trampled underfoot, and violence, torture and even death are taking place. that is why this parliament puts its finger in the wound and names these grievances. and that is why we are calling today, with this urgent resolution, on the tajik government to restore calm and peace and to fully respect and protect human rights. just so there 's no misunderstanding . we do not say this because we want to tell others how to live or because we want to interfere in internal affairs or anything else. no, this is about something universal, namely respect for human rights. we will always be speaking out for this, wherever and whenever.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing human rights violations in tajikistan today, and it has become a model for autocrats. what happened? what happened? a civilian died in police custody after being arrested. people who are oppressed use this as an outlet, go out into the streets, demonstrate for their human rights. among these people are journalists. the autocracy has no other solution than to fire live ammunition into the crowd. civilians are dying, journalists are dying, and we're watching. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to make it clear that we cannot allow autocrats to use live ammunition to shoot at crowds of people. if there is anything we can do, please include it in your agenda. take it to the council. the use of rubber bullets would be a first solution, at least, to tell the autocrat that he does not have to shoot people who are fighting for their freedom. it is not the solution to the problems, but it is helping the people on the ground. it would be a small symbol. i'm asking you to take this with you. bring that into the conversation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i will start with a quote on keeping silent against evil and keeping silent about evil. ‘we are implanting it and it will rise up a thousand fold in the future.’ this is a quote by solzhenitsyn – a famous quote that also guides us in this debate. we want and we accept the moral duty to address the injustices happening in tajikistan, in the autonomous region of gorno-badakhshan, where those who dare to speak out are branded as terrorists by the authorities, where human rights and freedoms are under unprecedented attack. human rights defenders risk political prosecution, torture or even death. that’s why we appeal to the european commission to do everything possible to show and to signal that we do not accept ethnic cleansing under the pretext of fighting terrorism and do not accept closing our eyes on human rights violations against minorities, unlimited mass surveillance and information blockades. this is our duty. we are watching and we are speaking out.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 7 july 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote.
that concludes this item.
the meeting is closed and will resume tomorrow, thursday 7 july 2022, at 9.00 am, with the commission statement on the recent heatwave and drought in the eu (2022/2746 ((rsp)). the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, drought is becoming more frequent over the years and raises two major issues. the first is the question of water management in our territories and the need to reconcile all uses of this vital resource for human consumption, but also for crops, livestock, industry and energy. the second issue is food security, which is everyone's business. that is why we need very quickly exceptional measures to support the agricultural world so that it can produce. to do this, we need to work on support and more flexibility for irrigation systems. we have to think about the question of water storage. we need more research and innovation to better manage this resource of water. finally, i would also like to remind you that we should re-examine the question of the triggering of the risk management tool, which can be accompanied by a disaster. i believe that the agricultural and forestry world today needs clear and very short-term support from our assembly.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the total amount of precipitation per square metre in a year is not the only factor. rainwater must fall from the sky at the right time of year. in germany, 99 per cent of rainwater is still used in agriculture, i.e. green water. but extreme weather events are increasing, whether it's extreme rainfall or droughts like we're seeing in italy and in much of europe. we need good and, above all, quick answers. sustainable water management and an efficient irrigation structure are therefore essential. the water table and surface waters, i.e. blue water, play an important role here. water-saving technologies, more inter-company cooperation projects, more consultancy and research for man, animal, plant and environment are essential. the provision of water, food and energy must not be used as a bargaining chip for ideological reasons. everything has to go hand in hand. that is why i support my colleagues in their demands.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a study was published a few days ago that the current heat wave in southern and southwestern, southeastern europe and the associated drought will be much more frequent in the future. this means that we not only have to go much faster in climate change, but we also have to go much faster in adapting to changing conditions. we must tackle this gigantic task together. and i think the first thing that has to come to mind is the reduction of waste. we cannot continue to overuse groundwater resources, which are already being used to the extent that they are not being replenished, by spraying them over vast areas in bright weather. so we have to be much smarter with these limited resources. and of course, we can't rule out the possibility that we're going to be much faster in terms of expanding renewable energy, energy efficiency, to get to the root of this crisis. because that's the only way we can do this together.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is no doubt that flying has brought people together and enabled international exchange to a degree that could not have been imagined a century ago. but equally undeniable is that flying is the most energy-intensive form of mobility, and it relies entirely on fossil fuels. refueleu aviation is now intended to usher in the transition to more sustainable fuels. but it is not sustainable to allow new fuels to be produced from problematic raw materials such as palm oil distillate or intermediate products. instead, we should be looking at the only scalable solution, and that's synthetic fuels made from renewable electricity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because the potential for sustainable biofuels is limited. we're not going to discover new continents with arable land. i have no problem with technology openness, but it has to take into account physical reality. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of our amendments and to ensure a sustainable future for aviation. a small addition to mr gade: if the deadlines are so short, it is clear that the committee on industry, research and energy cannot submit proposals.
mr president, the aviation sector accounts for 4% of global carbon emissions. this is especially a meteoric growth by 2050 which means, obviously, that it must also participate in our carbon neutrality objective. and that means lighter planes, it means better calculated amounts of fuel on board, and it means new energy. the excellent report by my colleague søren gade goes in this direction. electricity, hydrogen, synthetic fuels: of course, but that's for tomorrow. the technology is more advanced for biofuels. we must increase the volumes, and especially not by shipping pfads, the co-product of crude palm oil. the result is the same: deforestation, the destruction of biodiversity and a disastrous climate impact. we do not want it, the citizens do not want it and the airline industry itself does not want it. there is only one useful and effective vote for the future this afternoon: support for the søren gade report and amendments nos 112 and 134 to make the aviation fuels of tomorrow truly sustainable.
mr president, i think history repeats itself. when we were discussing biofuels, we made the mistake of creating too much space for the first generation with the idea that maybe later on, the second generation will come. what happened? the first generation has become so dominant that it has become an obstacle for the development of the newer biofuels, the more advanced biofuels. we need to prevent that from happening here. and that’s why opening up and broadening the definition of sustainable aviation fuels is such a wrong thing to do. we wanted the development of the sustainable aviation fuels, but we wanted the development of the more advanced and not the ones that could be palm oil, that could be intermediate crops, that can be food crops. that is the wrong direction. we need to correct this because that will make sure we are developing the real sustainable aviation fuels. and let’s be honest, i’m a bit nervous, but even a company like lufthansa is coming up with the same arguments as i am. i think that should make you think.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam commissioner! the discussions on the refueleu regulation were not easy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. it is about mobility in europe, especially for more remote regions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules. the european aviation sector needs to reduce co2 emissions by 55% by 2030, and this is to be achieved with the same level of enthusiasm for flying as europeans. so we need a revolution in aircraft manufacturing, in the materials used, in the engines and the fuels. the eu has spent billions of euros on research in this area in recent years, and industry has now also produced prototypes. i believe that by 2030 the production of synthetic fuels must be the main focus, because bio-kerosene will always be limited in quantity and will be subject to conflicts of use. that's why we need this signal now. e-fuels are the future, and early movers can benefit substantially from european funds. the more rapidly the scale is scaled, the faster... (the president shall withdraw the floor from the speaker.)
my question is, actually when you’re talking about that we need to keep the cost at bay and we need to democratise aviation, are you aware that about 20% of the world’s population are in a situation to be able to enter a plane on economic reasons and that 1% of the world’s population is responsible for more than 50% of emissions, and that the ticket prices reflect less than one third of the cost which is actually inflicted on society by aviation? how do we judge that?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr gade on his excellent report. three thoughts on my part. first, we want to accelerate the use of alternative fuels in aviation. because alternative fuels are the only way we can decarbonize aviation. the aim is to increase the level of blending, but also to broaden the production base. i think this makes sense for one reason: the sustainability criteria we set are increasingly being safeguarded, because they are regulated in the renewable energy directive. so no one here has to worry about these sustainability criteria being torn down. secondly, mr gade's report proposes that it be extended to all airports, and thus to more airports than the commission has provided. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including the introduction of a 'book and claim' system. i think that is a good solution, as proposed by mr gade, because it brings flexibility to the system. third thought: this is the issue of competitiveness. we must be careful that the proposal does not throw the baby out with the bath and distort competition for european airlines, that... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. everyone laments the bad laws, but all attempts to make better laws have so far failed. in the old days, laws were made out of a single cast. then they were pleasantly brief and easy to understand. the ten commandments in the bible, for example, had less than 300 words, the united states constitution had less than 10,000 words. today, the eu's probably very important pacifier chain regulation alone comprises 52 narrowly defined pages. in the past, every citizen could read and understand the napoleonic code or the german civil code of 1900. today we need five lawyers to settle a legal matter. and if today gender language and gender agendas are to be incorporated into laws, then i know one thing: you, ladies and gentlemen, and you, commission, will not achieve your desirable goal of making better laws in the future either. dear visitors to the visitors' gallery, welcome to the tower of babel, welcome to the world of the leviathan.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not nobody is perfect. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the beauty of this topic of cycling strategy is that almost everyone has experience of cycling and can talk. i received my first bicycle 60 years ago on my sixth birthday. i remember exactly where and how i first tried driving. compared with the naturalness with which my grandchildren learn to ride a bicycle at the age of three or four, my first attempts at riding were downright embarrassing. there were not many bicycles in those days, and as a teenager i was as proud as oskar was to have my own bicycle. however, since my bicycle was stolen from the commuter parking lot at the train station some 20 years ago, i have not bought another one. so i've been left out of the new wave of e-bike enthusiasm. but i can understand the fascination with this new kind of cycling. and i also see the need for us to keep an eye on the further development and use of e-bike mobility and to look for solutions in case of any conflicts with other road users and also in case of any misdevelopments. cycling is still almost exclusively carried out in the home environment and also on rather shorter distances. while i respect the great enthusiasm and acknowledge the many good ideas contained in this new approach to an eu-wide cycling strategy, i would like to make two points. firstly, if we are now developing an eu strategy, we are violating the very important principle of subsidiarity. the solution to the problems of cycling should be sought at the lowest administrative level, not at the highest. and the rights and sovereignty of the member states must not be disregarded in this matter either. and secondly, do we really want to regulate cycling - from the production of the bicycles to their disposal - throughout the eu? i can only warn you. we would be creating another bureaucratic monster that takes away the natural, the beautiful, the normal, the joyful part of cycling and doesn't create any added value. let's just leave it at the status quo. if people don't like cycling because of the rules, then you're doing the exact opposite by regulating them. by the way, that's not going to save a gram of co2. and then the cycling lobby groups and the manufacturers of the bicycles are happy because they can sell them more and more expensive because of the many regulations. i don't want to pass that strategy on to my grandchildren.
madam president, commissioner, i thank the rapporteurs, mrs katainen and especially carmen avram of my political group for the work they have done. we have to welcome the proposal for a european union forestry strategy for 2030: i see it as a very important strategic instrument to achieve our commitments related to climate change mitigation and adaptation, biodiversity conservation and restoration and the promotion of the circular bioeconomy and support for rural development. the importance of the multifunctionality of forests in this strategy is important, but it will only be achieved if economic and social aspects are integrated into them. i would also like to point out that environmental issues of great relevance to europe, such as desertification or the abandonment of forest land, are not mentioned, along with issues such as forest fires or pests. they should have paid more attention and been more specific. this is an ambitious forestry strategy in many respects and action is now needed to ensure that these objectives are actually achieved. finally, a balance needs to be struck between the environmental, social and economic aspects of forest management, maintaining and respecting the diversity of forests and forest management practices of the member states of the european union, while ensuring a coordinated and harmonised approach of the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, forests and their sustainable management are the solution to combating climate change and also to replacing fossil raw materials in both products and energy production. unfortunately, initiatives affecting eu forests do not always recognise this basic fact. the eu needs a forest strategy that recognises the wider societal benefits of forests. forests are not just about the environment, they are about ownership, about economic and social values. the report by parliament succeeds better than the commission's strategy in finding a balance on these fundamental issues, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr müller, for his good work. i urge that we accept this report. we must continue to count forest-based bioenergy as renewable, otherwise we are in the way of the fossil fuel economy. the fact is that, despite the guidelines of the committee on the environment, wood is renewable and continues to sequester carbon as it grows.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the main objection i wanted to raise to this strategy (and it was raised in this chamber) is that it breaks the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, the preparation of a forestry strategy in a situation where the competence in this area belongs to the member states. secondly, the strategy, like many other recent commission strategies, focuses on this environmental dimension, leaving economic and social issues out of its focus. and forests certainly have an impact on this economic and social situation, especially at the local level. this is unfortunately omitted and this is a very serious mistake. in my country, poland, forests are mostly managed by the state farm. the area of forest grows every year. since the post-war period, it has increased by 10%. forests now cover 30% of the country. the wood supply is growing in the forests. the annual harvest is less than the increase, so it simply doesn't make sense to impose any restrictions on such forestry. i therefore urge that the development of forestry be left to the member states.
mr president, commissioner, our forests have been terribly devastated this summer by drought and fires, with terrible consequences for our territories. because from an environmental point of view, let's remember that our forests are home to biodiversity, that they store carbon. but they also provide important solutions for the bioeconomy and bioenergy, by enhancing our forest resources. the use of these resources is an integral part of good forest management so that our forests are maintained, healthy, and to allow the renewal of populations but also the adaptation of species to global warming. i would also like to mention the economic role of our forests. in my region, in the far east, the wood and forestry sector alone provides 55,000 jobs. so, during this week, ladies and gentlemen, let us be ambitious for our planet and pragmatic from an economic point of view. and this is true whether it is for the forestry strategy, or the text on renewable energy or the text on deforestation.
mr president, commissioner, to talk about any measures to combat climate change without talking about a very good forestry strategy is basically reprehensible. and the situation in the forestry sector is very dramatic and getting worse. not only because the prices of wood as a commodity are rising and rising due to the ever-increasing demand, but because of the huge droughts that decimate forests in the summer. at the same time, they're being decimated by fire. climate change is having a negative impact not only on the fire resistance of forests themselves, but also on the prospects for wood production in the coming years. this is why we have long called for the management of forest ecosystems to be improved and adapted to modern challenges. the european forestry strategy must build on the existing foundations and include the protection and restoration of biodiversity and forest ecosystems, based on the principles of sustainable forestry and supported by clear indicators and indicators. the new forestry strategy should be consistent with the 2030 biodiversity strategy. in my view, this requires an unconditional commitment to the strict protection of our most precious old growth and forests. and in this effort, we should also explore how to stimulate and increase funding for this sector and how to also use appropriate ecosystem services in a sustainable way.
the commission has already done so. whether it is the agricultural revolution, the food revolution, the transport revolution or the energy revolution, the greens in germany have been trying to re-educate us for years with these slogans. at the same time, the green economy minister is kneeling before the sheik in qatar. i want to break a lance today for our forest owners, because wood is the most important renewable resource. the forest is the key to fighting climate change, it provides jobs for millions of people, it supplies wood for construction, heating and electricity, and it is a recreational space for all of us. sustainable forest management means making full use of the wealth of experience of private and public forest owners and foresters. they know best which farming methods are best suited to which areas. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. if you want the green deal, you have to use domestic capabilities in these times of war, cut red tape, just trust the people who are doing it on the ground.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate and for your interventions today, which clearly reflected the balanced character of parliament’s report. i have heard many interesting ideas on issues that lay at the heart of both of our institutions. and, i have to say, i can agree with most of the statements made today. for example, by ms müller, the rapporteur, who stressed the very clearly the role of forest owners, especially the smallholders, and the need to support them and get them on board to support our strategy. or by ms beňová who acknowledged that we need to address the health of our forests at european level. or by ms avram who stressed the need to support member states in their efforts to better protect forests and mr ștefănuță who recalled that protecting our forests is the best investment for the future. but let me briefly also raise a couple of issues. first of all, on the need to support foresters and forest owners. forest owners and managers need drivers and financial incentives to acknowledge the ecosystem services linked to the adoption of most climate- and biodiversity-friendly forest management practices. so the new cap for 2023–2027 offers increased flexibility to design forest-related interventions according to national needs and specificities, as well as reducing red tape while linking and ensuring a synergetic approach between the european green deal, national forest policies and the eu environment and climate legislation. the recommendations to member states on the cap strategic plans for the 2023–2027 period have encouraged due consideration of forests. the forest strategy further calls on member states to set up under the cap and other eu financial instrument payment schemes for ecosystem services for forest owners and management, and accelerate the roll-out of carbon farming practices through this and other public instruments. on the need to ensure biomass availability and biodiversity protection – we are looking for the multiple wins: biodiversity, climate and bioeconomy. we can and we must minimise trade-offs between preservation of forests and timber supply. nature is our best ally in the fight against climate change. the eu forest strategy will not negatively affect the overall availability of timber for the bioeconomy and will increase the resilience of forest ecosystems and help meet other social demands. the new forest strategy aims at preserving carbon in the long run. the proposal for the revision of the renewable energy directive as part of the ‘fit for 55’ package sets out additional concrete safeguards. it includes strengthened sustainability criteria for bioenergy, extending the scope of application and enlarging no-go areas for sourcing; his means prohibiting the sourcing of forest biomass from primary forests and limiting it in highly biodiverse forests to ensure no interference with nature protection purposes. of course, i have to mention forest fires, which many of you mentioned as well, which again we have experienced this summer all over europe, starting actually very early. so the forest strategy acknowledges that the extent and intensity of forest fires in the eu will increase in the next years. and this is one of the main challenges that the eu strategy intends to overcome to the extent possible through the promotion of more healthy and resilient forests. this is clearly linked to prevention – in particular, complex stands composed of uneven-age and multiple species are less vulnerable to forest fires than even-age monocultures. the future legislative proposal on monitoring will also allow to have better data on the areas at risk and anticipate the need to intervene and to minimise them. so, once again, dear members of parliament, as you know, the implementation of the strategy, which was adopted by the commission more or less a year ago, is already on its way. and the commission is paving the way towards a legislative proposal on forest monitoring and strategic plans and preparatory work on the new governance is also ongoing. but implementing this strategy is a long-term process and will require continued support and engagement from all stakeholders. your report will be most a valuable contribution in the implementation of the strategy that aims to ensure a healthy, prosperous future for our forests.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you very much for these contributions to the debate. we have heard different perspectives and approaches. i'm not surprised. but it's actually two ideas that have carried me through this debate: one is the expectations of our forest ecosystems, which are very broad. and the other is this appeal to the different experiences in the regions, that forest management works from the bottom up and is different in each region. i think that one-size-fits-all does not work at european level, bottom-up is the approach we want. commissioner, i do not agree with you that we should use so much cap money. the common agricultural policy has only to spend every euro once. if we're going to take him for the forest, he's missing somewhere else. i believe that ecosystem services must be externally funded. there are climate funds, there are people who want to invest a lot of money in green investment, and that includes ecosystem services for the forests. i think what has driven us in this collaboration with all the reporters, the shadow reporters, is the will to rebuild the forest sustainably, the will to advance natural forest management, and also the will that a forest also needs to grow and it takes time. it brought us together. i therefore ask you once again to approve this resolution. and i thank once again the 16 million forest owners who do their work every day in the interests of the european citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 september 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the progressive degradation of forest systems certainly needs to be effectively combated. the increased protection of forests, especially primary forests and old trees, is also a demand of polish society. we all in poland want to protect our beautiful and rich forests. we want them to be resilient to climate change and natural disasters, to be healthy, strong and to serve future generations. however, as the member who counter-rapporteured the envi opinion on this issue, i believe that these objectives can be achieved at member state level and that the european commission's integrated strategy, by seeking to gradually extend the eu's competence in forest management, violates the principle of subsidiarity. i am afraid that the combination of the new forest strategy with the strategy's objectives of protecting biodiversity will be a major challenge for the forestry sector. for example, a target of 10% of the country's area under strict protection would mean that poland would have to exclude about 1/3 of its forest area from active forest management.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr christophe hansen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the making available on the union market and export from the union of certain raw materials and products associated with deforestation and forest degradation and repealing regulation (eu) no 995/2010 (com (2021) 0706 c90430/2021 2021/0366 (cod)) (a9-0219/2022).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, since 1990 500 000 hectares of forests have disappeared and they have disappeared forever. and even though this disaster affects the countries of the european union to a lesser extent, we are still responsible for more than 10% of the total deforestation. the european union is a major contributor to the world economy, and it is the world's largest consumer of goods and services. are we serious about our fight against biodiversity loss and are we serious about our fight against climate change? i say it clearly: yes. and if that reason prevails, then we have no choice but to fight deforestation on a global level. the european commission has heard the call from this european parliament for a legal framework to combat this illegal deforestation, as set out in my colleague mr burkhardt's report. and i would like to personally thank you, commissioner, for having the courage to put this proposal forward, because it is not unanimous among the stakeholders. but as you can see from our report, we still see room to make your proposal even more effective on the ground, particularly in terms of scope. we demand that rubber, maize, palm oil derivatives, poultry, pig and sheep meat and charcoal be included immediately. and after the revision clause, add products like sugar or ethanol. the same goes for ecosystems: we have already extended the proposal to other wooded areas, which should include the cerrado in brazil. we would also like you to consider extending the scope to other ecosystems, such as marshes. in addition to product traceability, which is clearly one of the most important elements if efficiency is to be guaranteed, the possibility and flexibility to add traceability at the site or mapping at the site of the polygons has been added. i think that would give even more flexibility. as far as small farmers are concerned, we are calling for financial and technical support for them, because in some sectors - cocoa, to name just one - almost 80% of farmers are small farmers. we also included indigenous land rights. we believe this is very important because we know that in brazil, for example, their rights are not respected and that national laws are often below what is required by international conventions. ladies and gentlemen, it is important that this new instrument is applicable and we must strike the right balance between our ambition and its applicability. and on this point, we will certainly have difficult negotiations with the council, which is also absent today, i am sorry to say - i hope this is not a sign of the desire to move quickly on this matter. i think we will be fighting over the checks to be carried out in the member states. we must also fight for compatibility with the wto because we do not want systems to be deprived at international level. and at this point i think the blacklist is still open to criticism of third countries. i also remain sceptical about the inclusion of financial institutions because, in my opinion, this is not the right legal basis to do so and i do not know how this could be verified on the ground. we don't all agree, but we've had a lot of good ideas for moving forward. not all the ideas will be on board, but i thank all my colleagues who contributed to it. we need to move quickly and that is why i regret that the council is not here. we would like to reach an agreement with the council during this presidency, which is why i am calling on everyone to vote in favour of protecting virgin forests, advocating biodiversity and fighting climate change. this law has the potential to do everything.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner, soy fields are everywhere as far as the eye can see. one truck after the other is passing by on the ruta de soja, the soy highway, to get the soy to ports, and huge ships loaded with the grain are going down the amazon river, transporting the load to europe or china. this is what i saw when i visited the amazon recently. deforestation rates are skyrocketing in brazil under bolsonaro, fuelled by his devastating policies but also fuelled by our consumption in the european union. when i met indigenous leaders in their villages, they told me how their livelihoods are being destroyed, how their land is being invaded, and they ask the eu to help stop this. with this law today, we have the chance to halt deforestation in countries like brazil, and we must. it’s clear to me, and this was my goal during the legislative process: the more ambitious the law is, the better. that is why we on the imco committee strengthened market surveillance and customs controls – because a law is only as effective as its implementation. we included a strong human rights dimension. i urge all the colleagues in the upcoming vote to not water down the text. this is crucial for the indigenous people in brazil and for the world’s climate.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the envi committee and its rapporteur, mr hansen, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, but also many other committees that were involved in this work, and all that they have put into the report we are debating today. it’s extremely important to remember that this sensitive initiative is one of the key deliverables of the european green deal. it helps us address the two major environmental challenges of our time: biodiversity loss and climate change. deforestation and forest degradation are enormous drivers of both of those challenges. in the last 30 years, the world has lost over 10% of its forests. to put that in perspective, 10% of the world’s forests is an area larger than the whole of the european union. and that loss continues at an alarming pace; over 1 700 football fields of forests are destroyed every single hour. what we have here is a solution with several key elements at its heart. we need to address both illegal and illegal deforestation. we need strict traceability, strong due diligence, solid definitions and a robust system for benchmarking. and i am happy to see all of those essential elements of our proposal in your report. but your report also proposes a considerable enlargement of the scope of this regulation, claiming that there is still room to increase the level of ambition of what the commission proposed. and of course, the level of ambition will always be important. but rather than overburdening the system at the outset and risking its failure, i am convinced that here we need to advance step by step. if we want to enlarge the scope, we must do that on the basis of solid data. we need proof that the products covered are the ones where the union is contributing the most to global deforestation. without that, we are concerned that our regulation could be challenged, especially at international level, and this would push us a long way back. that is why we proposed the progressive approach: we start with the most relevant commodities and ecosystems, and we base that on the findings of the impact assessment. and when implementation begins, and we have additional solid data, we could start to expand. when we drafted the flegt proposal – which, as you know, was also very much inspired by ms burkhardt’s legislative initiative report, we drew on lessons learned, especially from the fitness check on the eu timber and flegt regulations. the resulting proposal, which we presented in autumn last year, strikes a careful balance between the overall level of ambition, the burden on economic operators and the feasibility of requirements and provisions that we propose. all these elements need to be kept in mind in the coming weeks and months as the political negotiations begin and we work towards a final text. i am happy that we will be able to start trilogues less than a year after we adopted our proposal, and i would like to once again thank the parliament but also the council for making this possible. and i am confident that if we enter trilogues with the same constructive spirit that has prevailed so far, we will be able to conclude this priority file by the end of this year. this would be an extremely important signal. the sooner this new regulation enters into force, the more damage from global deforestation we can finally prevent. for the trilogues, i can reassure you of the commission’s full support. we will do all we can to facilitate an agreement between the co—legislators, and to ensure a successful and satisfactory outcome to those negotiations.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my committee supports the deforestation-free supply chain regulation in principle. it is undeniable - and most of the imported foodstuffs, raw materials have already been mentioned, such as soy, coffee or palm oil - that these have also contributed to deforestation in highly sensitive areas and, of course, accelerated climate change. the question is whether we always use the right means in this regulation, whether we do not create certain obstacles, whether we can really achieve the objective we have rightly set ourselves. i do not think that this regulation is the panacea. it's a good step that we're moving forward there. but i think the main task will be, and mr hansen has already mentioned it, how do we compensate, how do we finance, how do we provide other prospects in these regions? i think there is this issue of compensation, climate finance, including through carbon credits, a big issue that we should approach in order to have a multi-pronged approach to solving this issue.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we are running out of time in protecting the world's forests. they are the lungs of the earth, and with less lung capacity, we will have a harder time breathing. that is why it is good that we are voting tomorrow on a legislative proposal with the aim of coming into force at the beginning of 2023. what were and are the epp's main points in this regulation? we want a regulation which guarantees legal certainty, which is feasible, and which, above all, effectively and actually prevents further deforestation. we as the eu are putting our market power at stake with 450 million consumers. in future, certain products such as soya and cattle will only be allowed on the internal market if producers can prove that they do not come from geodetic monitoring areas deforested after 31 december 2019. this makes our contribution as the eu to stopping global deforestation very tangible. the committee on the environment has, however, made some changes which should be viewed with caution. the extension of the scope of application from forests to meadows and moors, which would be equivalent to a quadrupling of the scope, will only be possible after an impact assessment. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it has also rightly stated that we must help local producers to meet the new requirements for eu exports. however, the fact that reporting obligations for companies are not bundled from the outset, that financial institutions are to be included, that the facilitations of the classification system are to be softened again, that the issue of certification - and i mean that in the sense of an eu seal - does not play a role, these are minus points that will not lead to support from the companies concerned, especially smes, on which we rely. i hope that we will be able to correct a few things in the plenary vote, and i wish our rapporteur every success in the forthcoming negotiations with the council and the commission.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. whether it's the coffee i bought at the station this morning or the leather in my shoes. how many times i've eaten or used something related to deforestation today alone, i can't say. and i think i'm not alone in this, because the eu is one of the main drivers of deforestation and the destruction of other important ecosystems worldwide. for the products on our supermarket shelves, forests, steppes, savannahs and moors are being destroyed all over the world, and we as the eu have committed ourselves to doing something about it. we are not shifting the responsibility onto the consumer, but we are making it the responsibility of the business. sustainable deforestation-free products must not just be a lifestyle for a few people that you can buy at the organic market, but they must become the standard and that is exactly the standard we are setting with this proposal. anyone who wants to bring soya, cocoa, corn, rubber, leather and other products to the eu market must make their supply chain transparent and prevent environmental damage and human rights violations. this also applies to banks that finance these practices. let me be clear . the deforestation business model has no place in the eu market. last week i had the opportunity to meet the indigenous activist kiambue uru-eu-wau-wau. he and his community are on the front lines of the fight against deforestation in the brazilian amazon. i asked him what he thought of our law. he told me that he does not see it as an act of kindness or solidarity, but as a duty we must perform if we want to be a real partner in the common fight against deforestation. so let's be that partner tomorrow. let's pass this bill. let us then also support an ambitious law in the trilogue. i would like to thank mr hansen for the good cooperation he has shown so far, and i would also like to thank commissioner sinkevičius, who is an important partner of parliament and, i am sure, will remain in the trilogue.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not yes, the eu! the eu is claiming that it is particularly committed to data protection through the gdpr. but the data protection regulation is not good at protecting data like so much else in the eu. we have a whole jungle of privacy notices, consent forms -- they don't protect data. you're annoying the citizens endlessly. but on the other hand, the eu is doing everything it can to create the glass citizen. citizens are being forced to reveal even sensitive and highly personal data such as health and vaccination status to anyone, whether in a restaurant or shoe store, through coloured bracelets, stickers and, now newly available, coloured qr codes. china sends her regards. but when members of this house are spied on, there is a lot of outrage. i'm just afraid your problem isn't the spying itself, but more that it's about the possibility that the right people weren't spying. well, in germany, they have a solution to this problem: in germany, the federal constitutional guard is authorized to spy on and monitor non-parliamentary opposition forces, critical journalists and even the parliamentary opposition. it's called the defense of democracy. i call it totalitarian!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to respond to my predecessor: if it's about myths, this is about facts. what we find is that exactly 50 years after the watergate scandal, we have wiretapping scandals in the middle of europe. and we have them in greece, and we have them in poland. i myself have met victims who have been tapped: opposition figures, opposition politicians in the middle of an election campaign. and here it was an internal campaign. and if you're not afraid of that, then you can lay all the facts on the table. but as commissioner reynders said, it is not the case that people say: 'where is the concrete and substantial evidence for anything?' and that is why it is all the more important that we not only talk here, but that we have a full information and that this house continues to contribute to preventing us from having such a skewed level in more and more countries, that the list of member states grows longer and longer, that trample on democracy and fundamental rights and the rule of law. this is our collective responsibility. let's get to it!
mr president, we knew it from the very beginning, spyware is a dangerous technology, it’s prone to misuse, which is why it needs to be regulated extra carefully. and so far we've failed on all levels. what's with the regulatory frameworks put in place to make attacks on journalists from members of parliament impossible? well, apparently they collapse, at least in hungary, poland, spain and greece. the parliamentarian judicial control mechanisms, they are not working. and until today it's civil society and journalists that expose these scandals and not us. and the victims are left alone with often the only option to complain to the very same institutions that illegally spied on them in the first place. so you would think the governments responsible of this would like to become clean and fix it? well, so far, they refused to cooperate with us in the committee, they cover on national level, they hide behind security interests, as if the protection of national citizens from illegal spying is not a security interest. so, in short, the use of spyware is out of control inside the european union, and there can only be one consequence. we need a moratorium on the sale and the use of spyware until these problems are fixed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. since i've been involved in energy policy, and that was at a time when i could still count my gray hair, there's been talk of the sleeping giant of energy efficiency. however, it has never succeeded in achieving national or european objectives. why would you do that? because all those beautiful goals were never binding. because it has always been argued that governments, companies, homeowners would do everything on their own to use as little energy as possible. but the sad truth is, that's not true. and that is why we greens are fighting for a binding and ambitious energy efficiency directive. i would like to thank the whole negotiating team for a strong compromise text which we greens will fully support. we will also be discussing the renewable energy directive this week and many have expressed doubts whether a higher target for renewable energy is even achievable. i'm telling you today, yes, it is. because if we put the turbo in now, we'll have to replace a lot less gas, coal and oil. we need a lot less windmills and solar farms. our citizens are saving money. we are meeting our renewable targets and our climate targets. and efficiency is also the way out of our fossil fuel dependency. why do you think putin has called energy efficiency a threat to the russian economy in his strategy papers? let's show him what that threat looks like. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. please ensure that energy efficiency, and not just a vague reduction in energy demand, is at the heart of any action you propose to address this crisis. i demand that you take the profits of the fossil fuel companies and invest in energy efficiency first. because we have to act now.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. energy efficiency is the stepchild of energy policy. for years, far too little has been done here, and now the energy crisis is taking its bitter revenge. we therefore agree to increase ambition and set binding targets. but we're taking into account the current situation. public budgets are empty, and companies often lack the money to invest after the pandemic. at least in germany, there is a lack of skilled workers and the hardware for large-scale rehabilitation. that is why, as rapporteur for my group in the committee on the environment, i have advocated clarity in the objectives, but flexibility and feasibility in the implementation by the member states. i am glad that at least the colleagues in the industry committee, which fortunately is in charge, have seen this as well and that there is now a large majority in favour of adapted and realistic measures and justified exceptions and conditions - for example, for social housing. it is now extremely important that we apply the same realism and pragmatism to the revision of the european building directive, which will affect millions of eu citizens, as we did to the energy efficiency directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the observation that in this house, physical understanding tends to zero is not new to me. i would therefore like to confine myself here to what is called energy efficiency, namely the increase in the efficiency of energy conversion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we were talking about efficiency, we might be talking about primary energy consumption, but certainly not about the hydrogen economy with its inherently devastating efficiency. the directive only requires by law that we all reduce our energy consumption by 0.8% per year now, 2% per year from 2024 onwards, or at least 40% by 2030 compared to 2007. their energy shortage is associated with restriction, shrinking of the economy and non-consumption. please be honest and tell your constituents that.
blue-card speech. – mr president, yes, madam grapini, i closely listened to you because i was a shadow on the directive and, to me, it’s also very, very important that all member states are looked at according to their situation, to their socio-economic situation, to the gains which they have already made. but, exactly this is laid down in the formula in the annex where – what you have talked about, the bip, the situation of the people – is recognised. so, of course romania will not have the same goals as my home country, germany. and we were making sure that this formula stays safe and that member states cannot voluntarily change it in order to make it easier for romania.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last year, the ecb expected inflation to be below 2% in 2022. now we have over 9% in the euro area and over 20% in the baltics. switzerland, on the other hand, has 3.5%. ecb president christine lagarde publicly rejected such comparisons as disreputable. but it is not the comparison that is notorious, but the ecb's monetary policy. because switzerland shows that inflation of almost 10% was avoidable. but the ecb does not want price stability, it is a monetary state financing. that is why it is now compensating for its delayed interest rate hike by buying more bonds from the southern states. 9 percent inflation with wage repression and mini interest means that citizens lose 8 percent of their income and savings every year. what's happening here is one of the biggest robberies in history, and this time against our own citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when i take the train from stuttgart to brussels, it's autumn outside, because the leaves on the trees are yellow and gray and sometimes they've already fallen off. it's not autumn. it's the driest summer in europe in over 500 years. but for my daughter's generation, it's probably one of the wettest they'll ever experience. in this situation, the european commission does not want to increase its climate targets, thus triggering a spiral of hesitation and hesitation internationally. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. have courage! increase the climate targets! set off an international spiral of climate action commitment. my daughter's generation doesn't want to know who had the best excuses. she wants to know who took responsibility. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by means of a 'blue card' procedure.)
blue-card reply. – it’s a funny question because i think you didn’t really understand what we are talking about. we are talking about droughts. we are talking about the destruction of the european biosphere, and if you are now trying to burn all of the wood, all of the forests, then it’s exactly what you get. you get more droughts, you get more problems for the people. you’ll get more firefighters that need to go into these risky situations. what we need to do is really save the climate, using renewable energies, but not cutting down our forests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we all have very specific images in our minds when we think of a dry summer: dried-up rivers, beige-grey steppes that used to be fields. and when i think of this dry summer, i think of farmer henning in mecklenburg-western pomerania, whom i visited during the summer break for his maize crop. as a young farmer, he is thinking hard about the future of the farm he inherited from his father. "just like everything else, it's just not in", he said. but when we got to the moor, he was distracted, all of us. there's a fire in a neighbor's field. a spark that catches fire while mowing dried grain a year's work simply burns up. and i understand what henning means when he asks if the farm has a future when these droughts are the new normal. the political danger is that short-term thinking in a crisis replaces long-term thinking. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we must prevent, because we must meet our climate targets as early as 2030. the heat of summer has only given us a hint of what else is coming. the good news is that with the green deal, with the strategy 'from the court to the table', we have the instruments in hand. let's just stick to the ball.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. poverty despite work: this is the bitter reality for 25 million workers in the eu. poverty despite work means working and yet denying the child many things - and this in this rich eu, which always boasts of being a haven of prosperity. prosperity is not for everyone. it is the workers who create the wealth and prosperity. but more and more people in the eu are working without a collective agreement. that means worse working conditions, worse wages. in the vast majority of member states where there is a statutory minimum wage, it is not sufficient to live on. some say, too much to die, too little to live. this state of affairs did not fall from the sky. it was also encouraged by the eu: the troika policy attacked trade unions, called for the sale of social infrastructure and the destruction of collective agreements. in the pandemic, and now, the gap between rich and poor is growing wider. ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that this directive finally addresses an important demand of the left, and that it states that we do not need weaker but stronger trade unions and more collective agreements. i'm glad we're maintaining that the minimum wage is the minimum that protects against poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but that is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. in germany, for example, the minimum wage is now rising to 12 euros, but the rents, heating costs and the cost of living are still rising. the current inflation and the crisis have long since been borne on the backs of the working people and the poor. and that is why i say quite clearly: the protest against the rising cost of living, for social security and peace remains unavoidable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the really experienced rapporteurs, the courageous commissioner and the french presidency of the council, which is not here, but which has conducted the negotiations with great courage and clarity. but i have a great request, a proposal to the council, that tomorrow all the member states should enter into a competition to see who can implement this directive the fastest. in times of exploding energy prices, but also food prices, we need clear signals that we want to boost the purchasing power of the very people who keep our store running. and the council has it in their hands. i would also like to ask you, and i am proposing this, not to wait for the action plans to strengthen the collective bargaining system. i would like to see the commission and the council agreeing on a number of points. we cannot afford to wait two years to implement this directive. if you take it seriously, then i think that's exactly the right signal in a politically difficult time.
mr president, commissioner, we need a european minimum wage, a decent wage for european citizens, a wage that allows citizens to have access to everything they want, and we need common regulation at european level, and we know that it has not been easy to achieve this. unfortunately, there were governments - right-wing governments in romania's case - that opposed the european minimum wage, but today we see that everyone is now supporting something that in the past they rejected. in romania, 1.5 million workers will benefit from this regulation and i am convinced that in our country we will be able to live up to expectations and implement this directive in the shortest possible time. it is also important to go further, to support smes in this respect, to ensure that working conditions are also suitable for these people who have a minimum income. despite these aspects, it is clear to us that in the current context of inflation and price increases, we need decent wages everywhere in europe and we need workers to be paid for the same work in the same way everywhere in europe.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my first reaction to your speech would be to say that when there is a real political will, we can even achieve results that we did not expect. because it is true that when we started, when we committed ourselves to presenting such a directive, it seemed at least difficult. today we are close to the goal, i hope that tomorrow will be the big day, well, we have achieved it. we have succeeded because there is real political will in this parliament. the second point i would like to make, and i repeat it, is that this directive does not destroy anything; it does not destroy existing systems. in a way it reinforces them, because it goes in the direction of these systems, because it wants to strengthen, in particular, social dialogue and collective bargaining. my third point concerns urgency. we are in a state of emergency, as many of you have said. this emergency is the explosion in the price of energy, but also of foodstuffs and everything connected with it. the directive provides for a transposition period of two years. it is a long one and i would say that the directive is more than that. it is now, in these difficult times, a strong political message that you, but also the member states, must convey, receive and put into practice. this is what is written there, this invitation to all member states, to the social partners, but also to political leaders, it is the urgency to adapt wages, first of all the minimum wages and the lowest wages in this context of crisis. the commission is also ready to help the member states. we have already planned to set up a group of experts to accompany the member states in order to transpose this directive quickly. but beyond the transposition, there is an economic, social and political context which makes the implementation of this directive urgent, which calls on the social partners to come together to negotiate wage adjustments to take account of the price explosion and to avoid a social crisis that europe really does not need.
the rapporteur. mr president, earlier colleagues said that dennis and i had such a great partnership. that is why he has asked me to speak on his behalf, since he is in another part of the house, on the equally important platform directive. i am happy to do so, because people have said before that we will vote on this directive tomorrow because we have shown teamwork here. i wanted to emphasize that myself. it was a team effort. it was a team effort by our teams, by the chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs and the shadow rapporteurs, by all the people who have been thinking in our working groups about what possible solutions might be, by the commissioner and his staff and the presidency. we have indeed made very grateful use of the preparatory work of previous presidencies, but also of the efforts of the french president in the last six months. i'm grateful for that. on behalf of dennis, i'd like to thank everyone involved. we're going to vote tomorrow. when you press the voting button, i don't know what you're thinking about, but i'm thinking about jolanda tomorrow. she works in a factory. i think of fleur. she works in home care. and i'm thinking of the warehouse worker alexandra. i think about those people who are keeping our society going in times of pandemics. maybe we needed the pandemic to tell us how important their work is. when i print for tomorrow, i'll think of these women. they're the people who keep our society running and they deserve better than they've been getting. our law helps them to advance because the law has two spearheads. firstly, the statutory minimum wage must be able to provide a decent living, so we have introduced a new decent living standard for an adequate minimum wage. the standard also tests the minimum wage against developments in other wages in the country. in addition, the workers must be protected by a good collective agreement. countries are obliged to draw up an action plan with their social partners. we are therefore also strengthening workers' rights so that we can work together to improve working conditions. member states must take active action against the suppression of trade unions. so with this law we are not only boosting the minimum wage, but also the wages of everyone in the member states. it is clear to me, and fortunately many of you have also said in the debate, that we should not sit on our hands for two years because we have two years to transpose the law into national legislation and regulations. let us not only vote in favour tomorrow but also ensure that the member states quickly transpose this agreement into national legislation on minimum wages and on those action plans for more collective bargaining. let's put a call on it to get the law in place as soon as possible. this is a milestone for millions of workers in europe, a milestone which will make work pay again.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 september 2022. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. the adoption of the first ever eu minimum wage legislation in the tripartite negotiations in june is a historic achievement. the directive will guarantee many europeans a better livelihood and a slightly easier life. it will significantly improve the position of many europeans in low-paid jobs, which is particularly important at a time of rapidly rising inflation and skyrocketing energy prices. for these reasons, i support the minimum wage directive in the vote in parliament and i hope that the directive will be adopted in the vote in parliament tomorrow with a clear majority. the minimum wage directive helps those who need it, but it also takes into account and supports the different labour market systems in the member states. for example, the finnish system with its sectoral collective agreements remains unaffected. this is because the coverage of finnish collective agreements exceeds the required 80% of employees. the directive has a good balance between flexibility to preserve national specificities and tools to support those working in low-wage sectors. the directive has a major impact on the 10% of european workers who live below the poverty line and the 70% of low-wage workers who are constantly worried about their livelihood.
in writing. of course, wages must be such that people can live off their work. i know what i'm talking about. i was a works councillor for many years. minimum wages can help, but only to a limited extent. it would be much more important to reduce the cost of labour. but it's a gift. i would like to address something quite different: why are you having this debate in the european parliament in the first place? the question of minimum wages is clearly a matter for national parliaments. and secondly - and i think this is much more important - your minimum wage policy is just another attempt to inflate the problems you have created. with your horrible energy costs, your green deal, your emissions trading system and now also with your sanctions against russia, you are creating a situation that leads to people becoming poor. and poverty always hits the lowest earners first. it's an old hat, known everywhere. it doesn't help to consistently ignore your own responsibility for the situation. i say it in biblical terms because the circumstances are such that it seems appropriate to me: turn around! think again of a wise, rational policy that puts the person at the center and not his gender or his ethnicity.
in writing. with the current developments, wages are on fire. the minimum wage and minimum wage protection in many member states are simply not enough for low-income families. this directive, which we greens have been calling for for a long time, will finally ask the member states to take account of the rising cost of living in the calculation of minimum wages. only in this way can we combat working poverty throughout europe and guarantee a life of dignity for all europeans. this directive is essential in the fight against the gender pay gap and the related structural disadvantage to women. the gender pay gap is projected to decrease by 10% as a result of the introduction of the european minimum wage. but this is only one step on the long road to real equality and effective social union. the law must be followed by others, such as the implementation of a minimum income for all, as europe's citizens have also emphatically demanded at the conference on the future.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive (eu) 2018/2001 of the european parliament and of the council, regulation (eu) 2018/1999 of the european parliament and of the council and directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council as regards the promotion of energy from renewable sources and repealing council directive (eu) 2015/652 (com ((2021) 0557 c90329/2021 2021/0218 ((cod)) (a9-0208/2022).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the european union has a real competence in this area, namely the development of renewable energies as the heart of the european energy transition. so it's all the more important that we get results quickly that make us more independent, that are affordable - more independent of course from russia, of course from fossil energy. in this spirit we have negotiated intensively, with good results, i believe. we want to use the strengths of the single market. so first of all, more cross-border green electricity and hydrogen projects. we are calling for a doubling, for large countries a tripling of the effort. secondly, we are calling for more innovation. european renewable energy producers must be world leaders in innovation. we therefore want to promote the development of a 5% quota, which goes beyond the state of the art. thirdly, and i see mrs bentele here, we want a hydrogen import strategy to be included in the national energy plans. in conjunction with technology transfer and development aid, we will organise the import of green electricity and hydrogen as a win-win and reduce energy costs in europe. fourthly, we are more digital and flexible than the european commission in our compromises. i'm sorry, i'm the wrong commissioner, but i can say it anyway. we want a simpler and faster system for the certification of the origin of green electricity and we are providing the technical solution. we want to make it easier to electrify transport, yes, but we also want to increase the share of synthetic fuels. the energy transition requires technological openness and flexibility. in this spirit, we also want to facilitate the achievement of targets for hydrogen and green electricity shares in industry and buildings. so please support our request for hydrogen. of course, his production must be unbureaucratic. i understand that the commission intervened a few hours ago, a few hours before the vote. it is also possible that this is tactical, which is why we prefer to trust the european parliament with its legislation. that's why we have hydrogen from old plants, hydrogen from new plants, hydrogen from indirect contracts like green electricity, and hydrogen so that the electrolysers can run even when the wind doesn't blow. what the commission proposes in its delegated act is hydrogen with a gold edge. just what we don't need right now. we want to help european start-ups and not crush them with red tape. last but not least, we have improved the ecological criteria without unnecessary red tape and costs. therefore, there is no generally binding delegated act on the cascade principle. the commission is now expected to negotiate this directly with the member states, of course using the best practices of sustainable forestry. on this basis, wood-based biomass is of course more credible than renewable energy, contrary to all rumors. quality timber is used for building houses and furniture. every forester knows that. ladies and gentlemen, with these guidelines, we're going into the trilogue. we shall then achieve a result which is better for the environment, but at the same time does not create new bureaucracy and means planning certainty. i think that's true of all the compromises we've found. i thank the shadow rapporteurs on the itre committee, i thank nils torvalds on the envi committee with his shadow rapporteurs. thank you to the staff who worked late into the night. despite sometimes differing positions, we have maintained a really constructive atmosphere. if we do this right tomorrow, it will be a good day for europe's energy transition.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, dear commissioner, and a great thank you to the pied piper of hamelin, markus pieper. tomorrow we are going to vote on a heap of compromises. and the good thing with those compromises is that nobody is actually very pleased with them – and that’s how it should be. and you have to ask why? well, sometimes when you vote in the parliament, meps tend to think that ‘my vote’, the way i’ve raised my hand, that’s the main thing, because then they can go on social media to see how right they were on this and that issue. but that’s not actually the issue in front of us. the issue in front of us is actually the way in which the council is about to think on red. and if you look at the council’s position on red, we are going to be in almost different worlds. so the main thing we have in front of us is to be able to find good compromises in the trilogues and therefore we need this basis for the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it’s a pleasure to join you today. commissioner simpson is currently in the college presenting the emergency energy package, and she asked me to take her place here to present the commission’s position on the renewable energy directive. no need to say this is an important file. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pieper, the members of the itre and envi committees, as well as the other committees involved for the important progress made on this proposal. this commission entered its mandate with high ambitions for decarbonisation. these ambitions need to be accelerated due to our current unfolding crisis. we have met the case at the moment, over the past six months also, that we are facing an acute situation, one that calls for an even more rapid, large-scale deployment of renewable energy. renewables are key to phasing out our dependency on russian fossil fuels. and they are fundamental in our efforts to address the climate crisis. the summer that just passed was a stark reminder that we cannot become complacent while energy scarcity threatens to affect our economy and citizens. this is why an enhanced and resolute legal framework for renewables is paramount for both the european green deal and repowereu. many of your amendments mirror the goal we had in mind when we were drafting this proposal – the overall target of 45%, for example. these are challenging goals, but i am confident that we are on the same page when it comes to the ambition level. however, if we are to succeed in reaching the target, we should avoid undermining it through other means. here i am thinking of the non-binding heating and cooling target. in the commission’s view, the non-binding element significantly decreases the ambition of the commission’s proposals. similarly, the rfnbo target for industry has been weakened by excluding by—products. i encourage you to look at this issue again in the trilogue phase. to support the uptake of renewable hydrogen, the commission will adopt soon the delegated act under the current renewable energy directive. i welcome the itre vote which supported the commission proposal in this respect, and i encourage the plenary to endorse this position. similarly, some areas are still to be reconciled on bioenergy. for example, we need to find a balance between avoiding the negative impact on biodiversity while taking into account the effects on energy supply in the current energy crisis situation. restricting renewable targets to primary woody biomass would not send the right signal in the current context of tight energy supplies. finally, i know that the elements on permitting from our repowereu proposal are not a part of this report. even so, i use the opportunity to restate how important a factor this is for our future energy system based on renewables. we are currently speeding examination of the second proposal by the co-legislators and i hope that it will be treated as an integral part of the ongoing red revision. when it comes to renewables, speed and scale are key and permitting allows us to unlock the bottleneck standing in the way of both. i stop here. let me thank you again for your work on this proposal and i am looking forward for your comments to pass to my colleagues in the college.
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as rapporteur for my group in the committee on development, i would like to focus on the international dimension of the renewable energy directive, which is crucial for the epp. it did not take an energy crisis for us to realise that if we want to rapidly achieve a boom in renewable energy sources, and in particular hydrogen, in order to promote the energy transition and protect the climate, we must look not only at densely populated europe but also at places where the conditions for renewable energy are ideal and unlimited. we have great potential to work with our international partners in this area. because at least in hydrogen, we're still the technology leader. and in africa, where we are also making political efforts, there is a great deal of interest in opening a new chapter in energy cooperation with the eu. i emphasize: in the mutual interest, because the production of green hydrogen requires the expansion of renewable energies in the partner country and generates new revenues in the country of origin. but what is toxic to imports of renewable energy in the form of hydrogen is that the current regulatory set-up by the eu commission is too complicated, too detailed, not feasible in practice and thus a huge obstacle. what we need instead is a european import strategy with clear objectives and clear definitions. i would ask you to support our amendments to make this possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. it is sometimes shocking to see how the reality of life is being ignored here today, including in this report. we've had a 30% increase in electricity prices over the last ten years, 50% more than last year. we have now got instalments that are 200 to 600% higher than last year in the energy sector. the problem of price, which was just brought about by the misguided energy transition, which was just brought about by too much green energy, which is what is burdening our grids, which is what flat current means in effect. we're not solving this problem right now by pushing for more green energy. so my request to you, my appeal to you, it's not the solar lobby, it's not the wind lobby that you've elected here. it is people at home, voters who have to heat their homes, who have to cook for their children, who simply want to be informed and to pay their bills. these are the people you brought here. you're gonna have to fight for them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr borrell, you said at the beginning that sooner or later this war would end. i hope it ends as soon as possible, not only because of the exploding prices for the population worldwide, but above all so that the death and destruction in ukraine will stop. but i would like to ask you what you are actually doing to bring about negotiations, to bring about a ceasefire? i have noticed that the eu has not set up an exit strategy, has not sent diplomats and has not done anything about it. and this is indeed a serious question in the interests of the people of the eu. what does the eu do besides supplying weapons? what is the eu doing besides imposing sanctions? and then, finally, a question: i noticed that mr danilov, who is the secretary of the security council of ukraine, said a few days ago in the voice of america that ukraine will not be satisfied with crimea or donbass, nor with reparations, but that the point is to actually demilitarize russia and fuel the disintegration. i want to know: what does the eu say about such a strategy? i criticize the aggressive war without if and but. but i also think that such a strategy is fatal.
madam president, continued military actions, occupying international waters in the taiwan strait and jeopardising freedom of navigation. these are just some recent examples of china playing hardball in order to install a ‘new normal’ under our eyes. at taiwan’s cost! at our cost! at the cost of international security! however, we will not buy into this chinese ‘new normal’. we will not witness a 24th february in asia! europe will not shy back. taiwan will not shy back. europe will not allow china to change the status quo, to keep threatening taiwan’s democracy, to keep pushing the line. taiwan is our democratic ally, our democratic friend – and i could have a really deep impression of that when i was recently visiting taiwan. as such, the european parliament makes it its ambition to institutionalise mutual bilateral visits to promote a bilateral investment agreement to intensify relations at eye level. this house will fight for a taiwanese ‘new normal’ in relation with europe and in relation to the international democratic world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. germany is experiencing the biggest energy crisis in its history. that means historical inflation, historical loss of purchasing power. we are facing a wave of bankruptcy that will cost millions of jobs. millions of people are probably going to freeze to death. and we're gonna have to get used to blackouts. who's to blame? it's not russia. germany's energy prices were the highest before the ukraine war. the fault lies with germany's completely insane energy policy. if you are going to give up coal and nuclear energy at the same time and rely on cheap russian gas as the only source of energy, you better not impose sanctions on russia. sanctions that do not help ukraine. sanctions that massively use russia that just deserves stupid and stupid. and sanctions that are destroying our country, germany. what we need is a renaissance of coal, a renaissance of nuclear power. and we need to get out of the green deal for energy security and for social peace and for prosperity for all of us.
i have to say, madam president, the situation on the european energy markets is dramatic. businesses are threatened with bankruptcy, and more and more people are unable to pay their energy bills. putin's war of aggression and a completely wrong energy policy over the last decades have brought us to this crisis. it is time for big energy companies like shell to retire their profits and use the money for social relief. we welcome the fact that the european commission will put forward a concrete proposal to this end. there's a tax on profits. it is good that the european commission wants to intervene in the electricity markets. but why are you so vague about the price of gas? the price of gas is driving people to ruin. we have to regulate prices. when the market fails, the eu must act for the people. we need a gas price cap. eu member states should cap gas prices at affordable levels and use their market power to enforce this. a capped purchase price, binding joint purchasing and savings - that's how we get through the winter better.
the commission has already done so. rising energy prices are putting many citizens in existential distress. jobs are at stake. the european union cannot and must not remain silent on this issue, but must act. the commission has already made a number of proposals, some better, some worse, at the energy ministers' conference last friday. for example, the revenue ceilings for inframarginal electricity generation are fine, but it is important that it is not regulated in each member state, but that there must be a european uniform solution. nevertheless, european energy policy is very often not on the right track. all too often, regulations dictate everything we do not want, or technology is burdened with bureaucratic burdens. unfortunately, in our politics, there are favorite children and technological stepchildren every day. we would have a carbon trading system that could solve all this in a good, technology-based way. we often hear things we don't want to hear, but we don't hear much about what we want to hear and where we want to go. for example, there is now a threat of "no wood" or hydrogen becoming more difficult. for example, additionality makes it difficult or impossible to get a hydrogen economy up and running. we must also focus much more on new technologies in the future. this is seen in the area of the usa, for example. the commitment to fusion and the hydrogen economy should serve as a model for us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in accordance with rule 241 (4), i would like to inform you that no request for a vote was made on the correction to the regi committee which was announced to the plenary yesterday at the opening of the sitting. the correction is therefore deemed to be accepted.
the next item is the debate on the council's statement of position on the draft general budget for the financial year 2023 (2022/2755 ((rsp)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! the challenges facing the budget have been sufficiently described, and it is also true, as the commissioner has said, that we must also set an example as an institution. i would point out that we in the committee on budgets have cut the amount of our bureau's presentation by an unprecedented amount. so we are quite aware of the responsibility. however, we cannot ignore some of the challenges and legal obligations. responsibility also means that we do not participate in this piecemeal institutional struggle, which unfortunately has happened so often in the past. i understand that, as you have said, the issue of postal equipment is a particular one. and that is why we have really concentrated on one area, one area, as a parliament. and that's the issue of cybersecurity, which has been mentioned before. and i say it very clearly, because, as my colleague ștefănuță said, without putin means without his hackers. and we have to show resilience, we have to show resilience. and just because many people have become accustomed to the threat, even the perceived threat, does not mean that we as a parliament can allow this. and yes, it is true, we also have to look for synergies. we are absolutely ready, and i say this as rapporteur responsible, to give cert-eu a special position. we are prepared to pull together here, because we are all at risk. and when one institution is attacked, it has consequences for the other institutions. and so, clearly, we are open to all options. but not for one option, which is the option of doing nothing or doing too little. we must act here, and we are absolutely convinced that we can do so. we are also, of course, the advocates of the other institutions. we still are. and that is why i believe that the horizontal approach, which is traditionally chosen by both the commission and the council, is difficult in this situation, because we see that the other institutions have certainly made efforts and have also made progress in many respects. we should look at this very carefully. and in this sense i would also like to point out that we cannot always give new tasks to the other institutions and also to the decentralised agencies - you can mention them here - without presenting the financial resources. we must also say at other times: we may want to be a little more economical here in terms of challenges, in terms of tasks, then we can also save on staff accordingly. ladies and gentlemen, we in parliament are constructive. we want to go into the negotiations with the confidence that distinguishes us as a parliament. but we are not only self-confident, we are also responsible. i am sure that we can leave the beaten track, that we do not have to repeat the mistakes of the past and that together, all the institutions, we can move in the same direction. we as a parliament are ready, confident and responsible.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by antonio lópez-istúriz white, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation of the european parliament to the commission and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the renewed partnership with the southern neighbourhood a new agenda for the mediterranean (2022/2007 ini) (a9-0220/2022).
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission is again to be given more power, this time in the field of foreign policy. the fact that it stands out in this area only by its denial of reality and its total failure is obviously not an obstacle, but a reason for self-criticism. let's look at syria, for example. the war has been over for years in almost all of the country, yet millions of syrians are in europe. and turkey is now forming the next wave of migrants because erdoğan wants to get rid of the syrians. what is the eu doing about it? nothing, as usual. it even encourages illegal immigration, as in this report. or afghanistan: a total failure! border patrol is a total failure. ukraine: a total failure of the system in moral exaggeration, they neglect their own citizens, deprive them of their livelihood, permanently ruin the economy and destroy wealth, while generously and without the slightest shame they give themselves a huge increase in wages. that is the sad result of giving the commission more power. conclusion: there is no single reason to give the eu more power. there are a thousand reasons not to do it!
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the eu is strong when we stick to our own rules, when we respect human rights and uphold the rule of law. of course, not everyone who seeks asylum in europe has the right to be granted asylum. but every person has the right to apply for asylum and has the right to a fair trial. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the rule of law. and every person has the right to decent housing, to medical care. that is what respect for human rights means, ladies and gentlemen. pushbacks are illegal because they prevent respect for human dignity and run counter to the rule of law. eu member states, and in particular those that are part of the schengen area or want to be part of the schengen area, cannot allow pushbacks. and if the commission learns about it, it must act. unfortunately, she does not. this is not making europe stronger, it is making europe weaker. please change that, commissioner.
madam president, commission president, we expected a speech on the state of the union and got one on ukraine, the blessings of public debt, the green religion and the fantasy economy. tatsächlich herrscht in der eu stagflation mit über 9 % inflation und dem niedrigsten wachstum der entwickelten welt. für deutschland erwartet das ifo—institut nun rezession und eine inflationsrate von zeitweise über 10 %. die schweiz indes hat 3,5 % inflation und 2,6 % reales wachstum. das zeigt: hyperinflation ist vermeidbar und solides wachstum in europa noch möglich. unsere stagflation ist also nicht folge von covid oder ukrainekrieg, sondern hausgemacht durch undurchdachte sanktionen und einen green deal, der energie unbezahlbar macht und null einfluss auf das weltklima hat. jetzt soll der eu-migrationspakt noch dutzende millionen migranten zu uns holen. jeder einzelne davon kostet uns nach einer dänischen studie über 600 000 euro. das geld dafür druckt die ezb, und geldmengenzuwachs und euro-verfall bedeuten noch mehr inflation. fragt mich jemand: „was können wir jetzt noch tun?“, sage ich stets: ganz einfach – genau das gegenteil dessen, was deutsche bundesregierung und eu-kommission seit jahren machen. das wäre der allzeit billigste aufbauplan und die einzige zukunft für nextgenerationeu.
i am not sure that this is the case. the situation in the union could hardly be more tense. putin is waging war, including an energy war, against all of europe. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present. every source of energy now helps to prevent bankruptcies and social dislocation. we need all available capacity. now, making a bow around nuclear power plants is presumptuous and far from reality. energy must not only be available, it must also remain affordable, and that is across society. in this crisis, it is right to confront market distortions, but, mrs von der leyen, the european commission cannot and will not be given carte blanche to intervene permanently in the internal market. that would not be a contingency economy, but a planned economy. europe must now rely on a temporary electricity price brake, european purchasing, networked infrastructure and strategically new energy sources such as fusion. a europe with a bright future also needs a very different kind of energy: energy for reforms, a reform of fiscal rules finally tightening up without building up new debt mountains , reforms for the eu as well. and that, madam president, was your promise today. now it's your turn to cash in. we are waiting for concrete steps with a constitutional convention to make europe fit again, not just for this winter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the spectre is in europe, the spectre of recession. we are in a race against time, but in a race of deeds, not in a race for fine words and symbolism. they have mentioned important concrete projects: price caps, tax on profits. that is good, but you have again systematically neglected one issue, namely how we are going to deal with the social consequences of this crisis. because the fear is about moving into the middle class, the fear of slipping into poverty, and the fear of not being able to pay the bills. if we look at the bleak prospects in energy-intensive industries, for example, it is a pity that we are not already equipping sure 2.0, sure + whatever at this point in time, so that we are armed and do not have mass unemployment. so i ask you to socialize. the social peace in europe needs this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, hungary is not a functioning democracy anymore, and hungary does not respect the fundamental values that all member states agreed on to overcome war, despotism and state terror. that’s been the opinion of this house for five years now, and it is an existential threat to the european union. since 2018, since we launched the article 7, hungary has received eur 30 billion of eu taxpayers’ money. experts estimate that about eight of those have been stolen or misused. they have made orbán’s friends and family millionaires, some of them billionaires. and the commission, well, has testified extensively about that. they have written reports, many letters to the hungarian government by now. you have launched nine infringements since 2018 yet orbán continues to steal, he continues to violate our fundamental values. following the pressure from this house, including through an inactivity lawsuit, you have finally triggered the rule—of—law conditionality. and i understand that the commission will decide in the coming days what to propose to the council in terms of freezing hungarian eu funds. von der leyen said this morning again, third time, in her state of the union, that the protection of the rule of law is fundamental. it is high time that we follow with action to those words. no more eu money for corrupt autocrats, not just a little less. and i am afraid neither the commission nor the council must fall for false promises now, because just a few reforms, maybe an anti-corruption body, all this is not going to remedy what orbán has done in the last 12 years. so let’s fight for our values.
blue-card speech. – dear colleague, you said you are a proud hungarian, and i believe that. but you are also a true european. so i would like to know how you see the position of hungary with the current government in europe and maybe what you would do differently?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to quote viktor orbán from that summer: we're not mixed race, he said. i could not have imagined that i would ever again see such racist remarks from a head of government in europe. but nevertheless, i must say, this is a very good report which has been presented here. but there's nothing new in there. we are in this situation. the commissioner has also described the situation in great detail. we know the situation. i do not know how you are doing, ladies and gentlemen, how many times we have reported on this here, how many times we have discussed it in parliament, but the same thing happens. the right-wingers here in parliament, who are usually against european cooperation, are always very good at working together, defending viktor orbán, that would be all very bad, etc. we all know that. we know the whole debate here. and they're not willing to accept any arguments at all. but one thing is different today. one thing's different today. in a few days' time the commission, the european commission, will be able to withhold money from hungary for the first time since the rule of law mechanism. and i call on the european commission to remain firm here, not to back down, not to turn to any negotiated solutions now, but to remain clear, to defend the rule of law in the european union and also in hungary, i call on the commission to do so.
madam president, commissioner, there’s a lot to say about the situation in hungary, so i will focus only on one point this time. hungary has become a kleptocracy. when it comes to eu funds, 4% irregularities have been have been stated by olaf. four per cent is by far the highest number in the whole of europe, the average is by 0.36%, so it’s ten times higher than anywhere else. forty per cent of the public contracts are awarded to single bidders, which are usually attached to orbán’s family and friends. we all know mr mészáros by now was a plumber and now is one of the richest people in hungary. he has a personal fortune of eur 1.4 billion. this is public money. it belongs to the hungarians. it’s money of the hungarian taxpayers and of european taxpayers, and it’s only used to foster orbán’s grip on the country. now we see a new authority being set up. if this authority is going to be set up with orbán’s family and friends again, it will be worth nothing. it’s high time to act. the commission and the council need to stay firm, because by nature, the only thing that is really a weapon against kleptocracies is to prevent them from getting taxpayers’ money. so we need the commission and the council to stay firm on the conditionality mechanism and on the recovery funds. we owe this to the hungarian people and we owe this to europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. so today hungary again: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting was adopted by the council on 14 december. the debate is not without its humour, however, because just yesterday the respected frankfurter allgemeine zeitung was outspoken in its criticism of the commission's one-sidedness. in france, the newspaper said, "big industrialists have bought the press" to use it as a tool of power. mr reynders, this has been the case for years, you should know that. what is the commission doing? i don't know. in germany, public television stations have just had to admit that they have political filters in favour of the government. the commission's response: i have not heard any. mr reynders, you should take up this matter in future. because that is exactly what you are criticizing in hungary. but only hungary is criticized. because, of course, hungary has no left-wing president and no left-wing government. the problem is not hungary. the problem is the eu - its one-sidedness, its left-wingness, its unwillingness to do anything against big countries like germany or france. i am concerned about some things concerning hungary, but unless you drop your one-sidedness, this whole debate is for naught.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not we're here today to discuss the 2022 fundamental rights report. that was my original report. i had become a reporter on the d'hondt random system, much to the annoyance of my esteemed colleagues. because the situation of fundamental rights in germany has come to a head, but germany as the largest net contributor to the eu is never criticized, i had focused my report on the german deficits of the rule of law: on the scandalous influence of politics on the appointment of judges, on the political dependencies of prosecutors, on the massive violations of fundamental rights in the course of the covid crisis, on the instrumentalization of the intelligence service to combat political competition and on the problems of state-controlled media. many of these are problems that this parliament has repeatedly and sharply criticised in hungary and poland. but these problems exist in germany too, and i had documented them in detail with numerous examples. my colleagues, however, did not want to know about all this. they didn't even want to explain these questions. instead of entering into the usual discussion procedure, they refused to do so. not a single meeting took place. instead, my colleagues in secret meetings have tabled some 400 amendments. i have not heard a single word of my report, not a single word. i have therefore withdrawn my name, because this report is no longer my report. the procedure says everything about the state of democracy in this house. they don't want to debate, they want to dictate. they don't want a democratic debate, they want chinese relations. you don't want to look for the truth, you just want to demonstrate your little racist power. the people responsible for this anti-democratic clown act are the people who usually talk about democratic values at every opportunity, namely sophie in 't veld, birgit sippel, vladimír bilčík, sergey lagodinsky, tineke strik and a few others whose intellectual and character are so insignificant that i don't even know their names. my colleagues, you are all pathetic hypocrites. you don't give a damn about democratic values. what you showed us was the communist politburo's tricks of the trade. your conduct was unworthy of a democracy. the problems of the rule of law in germany are unfortunately no longer mentioned. in germany, independent journalists are being driven out of the country. doctors who oppose vaccinations are getting visits from state police at 4:00 a.m., and so are judges who have ruled lockdowns unconstitutional. the rule of law in germany is in a miserable state. but so is this parliament. a bunch of anti-democratic hypocrites are supposed to decide on the rule of law. that is a joke, and a joke is this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the report on the situation of fundamental rights in europe is right and important, because we must be vigilant when it comes to defending civil rights in europe. we're just getting some shocking news, the surveillance scandals and pegasus. in the committee of inquiry we have been dealing with the surveillance of opposition figures and journalists by spyware. but when we talk about the situation of fundamental rights here, we must also talk about a great danger to fundamental rights posed by the european commission. the so-called chat control system monitors the personal communications of all citizens in the european union. the european data protection board has just delivered a devastating verdict on this proposal from the eu commission. he says that the current form of the proposal would pose more risks to individuals and thus to the general public as a whole than it would actually pose more risks to offenders. this is the wrong way to go, and i therefore call on the european commission to withdraw and revise this proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, and the shadow rapporteurs, i would like to thank you for your report. thank you very much for this report. i have heard of many groups now being discriminated against. i want to focus on people with disabilities. i am very pleased to have you in the chamber today, commissioner. we talked about lgbtq hostility, we talked about racism, we talked about anti-gypsyism. i want to talk to you today about ableism. it is taking place throughout the european union. that means i have no barrier-free access to the train, i can't get on the train. i may be a member of the european union, but i cannot travel as perhaps non-disabled people can. as a disabled woman, as a disabled girl, i am still being forcibly sterilized, if certain institutions like it. there are forced abortions, my rights are being severely curtailed. the future is accessible i hope that the future will be accessible. the present is not barrier-free for people with disabilities, and they have no human rights. i know, i'm just extending this one point. in april 2021, four people were stabbed to death in a berlin facility. people with disabilities were murdered. he was murdered! and at the end of the day, they reported and said they were redeemed. if this idea that disabled people, people with illnesses, must be saved, then we are still far from the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and unfortunately we are still in a very illiterate society. and i hope you'll be our partner in this fight against ableism.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not in march this year, former bulgarian prime minister boyko borisov was arrested on suspicion of corruption. twenty-four hours later, he was a free man again. the prosecution and the courts confirmed that the evidence was insufficient. so far, so good. i'm going to go. then manfred weber and his epp would indeed be right for the first and perhaps last time. but it is also true that according to the corruption perceptions index of transparency international, bulgaria is considered the most corrupt eu member state. however, this parliament does not want to take action against bulgaria - as we can see from the empty seats in the chamber - unlike poland and hungary, which are opposed to the so-called rule of law procedures under article 7. i think the reason is obvious. bulgaria may be corrupt, but its new government is strictly on the eu's side, and is committed to the insane climate and pro-migration agenda, unlike hungary and poland, which represent the interests of their own people and protect the economy rather than climb sisyphus's climate summits. conclusion: in the eu, only those who oppose the left-wing state are considered enemies of the rule of law. politically, the most liberal will also remain unpunished. whether by accident or design, i seem to have overstayed my appointment by a minute. but that's all there is to it. it may be worth noting that a lot of things - everything - has to change here, and then things will start to go up again.
madam president, i would like to raise a point of order based on rule 144, which provides that matters concerning breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of annex iv. now, annex iv, paragraph 2, states that ‘motions for resolutions shall not exceed 500 words’. the wording in the annex is clear and prescriptive: shall means shall. yet most resolutions tabled consistently exceed the word limit, and not by a small margin. the joint motions for resolutions are even worse. the id group therefore requests that the rules of procedure be respected and that motions for resolutions that exceed the word count be deemed inadmissible. for this part session, of all the motions tabled, only three comply with the rules of procedure, namely the id’s own motion on nicaragua and both the ecr’s and the epp’s motions on uganda and tanzania. we therefore request that all other motions for resolution be deemed inadmissible, and we only proceed to vote on those three.
author. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, seven months ago, shortly before russia launched its unprovoked war against ukraine, i stood here predicting exactly the demise of russian imperialism. i warned president putin of the lethal mistake that every warmonger dictator makes sooner or later – the imperial overstretch. back then, it was already clear that the brave ukrainians would not surrender to putin’s murderous regime. fast forward to today, russian troops who killed thousands in bucha, irpin, mariupol are now running away. the ukrainian bravery unmasked the true face of putin’s russia: a wannabe superpower and at the same time a dying empire, pretending to be the world’s second military. putin’s attack on ukraine was not only cruel, it was also extremely stupid. soon, the russian imperialism will be buried forever under the ukrainian sunflowers. but before that happens, the dying empire caught in the corner is dangerous as ever. because they cannot win over the battlefield, putin now tries to steal ukraine’s future. several million ukrainians have been forcibly deported, often to the far east of russia. deported ukrainians are put in so-called filtration camps reminiscent of gulag camps. among the deported ukrainians, there are up to 600 000 children. one cannot imagine the pure evil it takes to abduct children from their countries, separate them from their parents, label them as orphans, forcefully put them up for adoption, and try to erase their ukrainian identity. this is nothing short of genocide. no matter how brutal the enemy is, the light will always prevail. the wisdom of taras shevchenko, so well preserved under the russian propaganda banner, once again guides us: ‘keep fighting, you are sure to win. god helps you in your fight. for fame and freedom march with you and the right is always on your side’. slava ukraini!
madam president, total energy and the other investors are running two megaprojects that violate the human rights of over 100,000 people in east africa. for the people, these oil fields are more a curse than a source of development. this giant pipeline heated to 50 degrees crosses tanzania and uganda and causes environmental damage to flora and fauna, as the pipeline carries oil, causing massive displacement of people, who are deprived of livelihoods. this is causing and will cause famine and encourage the dropping out of school of young people, especially girls. farmers were forced to give up their land and received no financial compensation. opponents of the oil project are considered enemies of the government and are subject to threats of arrest and imprisonment. the heartfelt cry of activists, including the founder of fridays for future in uganda, is calling to us. she sees the future of the young people of her generation destroyed for the sake of a sick capitalism. once again, the exploitation of fossil fuels is not only an ecological tragedy, but also a human tragedy. it is essential that this resolution be voted on tomorrow, so that the ugandan and tanzanian people know that the european parliament supports them.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen ! in recent years, the european union has been confronted with unprecedented crises that have one common denominator. the cohesion policy has been the key to tackling their negative effects quickly and flexibly. this is undoubtedly a great success and achievement of cohesion policy. however, we must not forget that cohesion policy is above all the european union's main investment tool, whose task is to promote economic growth and employment and to reduce disparities between regions. these tasks are particularly timely and relevant in the face of the current economic crisis. we must therefore ensure that cohesion policy is adequately funded to enable it to be implemented and that it is not seen as an emergency instrument to respond to any crisis. in the report on the 8th cohesion report, we propose a number of solutions which aim to give direction to the development of cohesion policy. one of these issues is the need to provide specific support to rural areas, which face a number of challenges such as negative demographic trends, inadequate health and education opportunities, and the need to improve transport and high-speed broadband connections. another issue i would like to focus on is the need to ensure that local and regional authorities are not punished for the actions of their governments when the rule of law mechanism is triggered. finally, i would like to draw attention to the need to counter the delays in the implementation of cohesion policy by concluding partnership agreements and launching operational programmes more quickly, which we are faced with every seven years.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, first of all, congratulations to the rapporteurs for their excellent work. as a shadow rapporteur for the second report, i will focus my intervention on the border regions. the border regions’ importance goes beyond statistics. as the report’s title said, the border regions are living labs of european integration. given the specificities of their positions and the challenges they face, these regions should also be living labs for european innovation. the fact that the border regions generally perform less well economically than other regions within a member state is a call for our swift action. we need flexible and feasible programmes that can easily be adapted to the specific needs of the regions. i also join the calls to the commission and the council to find a way out of the current blockage of the regulation on a european cross-border mechanism. we need proper implementation and enforcement of relevant eu legislation, the rights of cross-border and frontier workers, improving their employment, working, health and safety conditions. teleworking too should be recognised. therefore, we call on the commission to revise the regulation on the coordination of social security systems, to put forward legislative proposals for a european social security pass without further delay. i particularly welcome the green dimensions of this report. as recent floods have shown, we must urgently increase our cooperation on disaster risk-management, including improved early warning across border regions. i wish to end my intervention by highlighting the importance of cooperation with border regions at our external borders of the european union, with their counterparts in the countries that are yet to become members. our funding programmes should be even more significant too, to promote eu enlargement policy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is of utmost importance for the whole european union. it is the main investment tool to help us eradicate social and territorial inequalities. every european shall be safe, free and have the means necessary to pursue a fulfilling life. we evaluate cohesion policy with these goals in mind and in order to adapt it to the current economic and social situations. cohesion policy is a long-term and strategic investment tool that helps us make the regions more resilient. therefore, we need to address climate change. our regions were not prepared for the catastrophes that came, and they are not prepared for the catastrophes that will come. let us help them prepare. let us help them to adapt to climate change, to prevent the next disasters from happening, and to help them save thousands of lives. please let us introduce a climate adaptation fund. every european shall be safe, free and have the means necessary to pursue a fulfilling life. in order to address assure this, we must negate the factual differences between cities and rural areas. therefore, it is necessary to reintegrate the european agricultural fund for rural development under the roof of cohesion policy. this way, we can bring social, economic and rural development all together and enable citizens in rural areas to make the best out of their own home. millions are already doing it today through leader, which is a community-led local development tool, and this is immensely successful. let us learn from these regional heroes and let us include more of these bottom-up tools in cohesion policy. if we include civil society and individual citizens in the policymaking and decision process, we will see a democratisation of our whole society. this is the only way to really ensure that no one is left behind. cities too should be able to address their respective needs in the most efficient way there is with direct access to funding and without interference from the national government. let us dare more subsidiarity, ladies and gentlemen. more subsidiarity – and real subsidiarity – not just at national or regional level, but all the way down to cities, municipalities and individual citizens. this way we can ensure that every european shall be safe, free and have the means necessary to pursue a fulfilling life.
on behalf of the left group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is true that we have done a lot of things right together in recent years and that european regional policy has shown solidarity in the face of crises. but where, for example, was the radical intervention in the energy market in the typical speech of our commission president today? to prevent energy poverty, we need to put energy networks and supply in public hands, so that we can finally control them democratically. the sacred social market economy is not governing anything here at the moment. even a tax on the profits of the crisis-hit cannot be passed. where are the resources to cover energy prices to come from? a temporary solidarity contribution is not a substitute. in the end, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy cannot compensate for the debt constraints that are blocking public investment in climate protection and the energy crisis. we can support renewable energy projects and make the rule of law a criterion for funding. that's right, you're right. but how incredible is that when we have to buy dirty, expensive fracking gas from all over the world and we have to keep silent about the rule of law? the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. but the reality is far from that. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european environment agency is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. cohesion and support funds are important for the cohesion and development of our regions. as regional policy spokesman for the cdu/csu group, i am involved in the daily work of our regional policy in the field of specialised politics. we can be proud of our joint work on the report entitled 'border regions in the eu: real labs of european integration'. we want to ensure that no region is left behind, that no region is structurally disadvantaged. i myself grew up on the german-czech border and am very familiar with the bureaucratic hurdles and everyday worries. the coronavirus pandemic has been a kind of a firecracker for this, and the temporary closures of borders have done a lot of damage to the economy, but also to people's trust in the neighboring country, people's trust in the european union. we also have very specific challenges in the border regions: language barriers, different administrative systems, different structures, concrete differences. i am therefore particularly pleased that the report now calls for the introduction of a borderland billion. it will be a special budgetary and structural support at the beginning of the next financial framework, which we urgently need. i am convinced that europe is growing together in the border regions.
before we get to the agenda, i have an announcement to make. the president received the council's position at first reading on the application of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, including the grounds for adopting that position. the commission's views and observations were also received. the title of the meeting will be published in the minutes of that meeting. the three-month period for parliament to express its views will therefore begin tomorrow, 16 september 2022.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr rainer wieland and mr charles goerens, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations (recast) (com (2021) 0734 c9-0432/2021 2021/0375 cod)) (a90223/2022).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as a shadow rapporteur, i am pleased that we can set the course to strengthen political parties in europe and also the foundations. it has already been said: what we want is to make them a little more visible so that they do not just appear every five years just before the european elections. we are strengthening democratic control of european parties and their member parties because we want to strengthen control of their respect for european values, of their commitment to them, as we have just stated in the european treaties. we do not want european parties or foundations which do not respect the values of our union to be financed with european funds or perhaps even to use those funds for measures which are contrary to those values. it is important again - and this has already been said, my colleague mr wieland has said it - that we are not acting in a vacuum here in the european elections, even as parties. that is why it is important to be colourful, so that citizens know to which party family they belong, what programme is actually being represented at european level, and to publish this in a prominent place on the internet, including the logo. the important point for us - and for me - has always been that we should also strengthen gender equality here, that european political parties should also make a statement here, that they should make public on their website their position on gender equality and the selection of candidates. because one thing is also clear: we need much stronger measures to ensure that we do not just have 37% women in this european parliament, but that we manage to have both genders represented here as well.
madam president, commissioner, minister, it’s amazing that we have managed to write down that european political parties should follow the treaties, but that should be a given. i think our lack of ambition when we look at this regulation is not sufficient. i’ve been trying to build a european party now for five years with 18 member parties in the different member states. i can tell you that we need to rethink how we can make them visible and how we can ensure that they are transparent, so that we see where all the money comes from, especially if we have a war of disinformation running. this is not sufficient. the recast procedure, to be honest, didn’t allow us to really go into detail to find these ways of making the political parties more visible and being ambitious in our approach. we have heard a couple of examples where that could have worked, for example, the european political associations. we have new ideas in other legislation that we could have transferred into this one to allow for real european elections. again, if i see what was happening with the commission president yesterday proposing that we have a european convention, we need to be more bold. we need to actually deliver on a european democracy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 15 september 2022.
the next item is the report by mr tom berendsen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the updated new industrial strategy for europe: aligning expenditure on policy (2022/2008 (ini)) (a9-0214/2022).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the future of green industrial policy is to be shaped in europe. energy security and energy affordability are the topics of the day for small and mediumsized enterprises, industry, start-ups and the craft sector. it is about competitiveness and also about survival, about many, many jobs and about the lives of many people in europe. that is why we need a strategy for european industry that will work in the long term, for the years and decades to come. this means: sustainable and future-proof, in the spirit of the green deal and without fossil and nuclear energy. nuclear energy in the form of small modular reactors has not become part of the eu's industrial strategy. we decided that together. in times of war in europe, when a nuclear power plant is bombed, we know all too well: only a sustainable and efficient energy supply will make us independent and competitive in europe in the long term. we are calling for carbon contracts for difference to support industry, and the supply of batteries and semiconductors to industry will also be crucial for europe, see the forthcoming chips act. we need investment in digital infrastructure, and we also need critical raw materials to push green technologies. but it's an illusion to assume that mining for critical raw materials can be 100% sustainable. we must therefore also establish a functioning recycling market. resource efficiency, research and innovation will be important for the substitution of critical raw materials, and this must be reflected in a law on critical raw materials in europe. the future of green industrial policy lies in europe. so, let's get on with it.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i was standing outside the audi plant in my home region of ingolstadt exactly three years ago and i was already pointing out that the 200 000 jobs in the automotive sector in germany were at stake, particularly in the supplier sector. at that time, it was unthinkable that three years later we would be facing the worst industrial and economic crisis of our generation. we are faced with colleagues like mrs hahn here who are seriously daring to say that companies do not have to go bankrupt, they just have to stop working. that's what a german economy minister says. these people are now working to exacerbate the problems that have led to our crisis. ladies and gentlemen, it is logical, and it is very good, that we are concerned about making our value chains more resilient, that we want to reduce dependencies, that we also want to diversify raw materials. this was a discussion that was also held in the united states a few years ago. they used to laugh here. now let's try the exact same example. we'll see if it works out in the end. but the crucial question is, and most of the speakers have rightly mentioned it, the price of energy. the german economy is clearly saying that energy prices can be reduced by taking a broader stance on electricity production and finally putting the principle of merit into the grave. no one's mentioned that today. we must bury the merit order principle, and that is of course also a very important part of the green deal. so, of course, the question is: does the green deal have a future? i mean, ladies and gentlemen, before we fail to face reality, which is inevitable, we should end the green deal now. we should end the merit order now. we should take a broader view of electricity production, and maintain technological neutrality, including in the direction of nuclear energy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i used to stand in the oder river up to here in the summer, collecting dead fish. that was gross, and it was also insanely sad. i've been doing this for two hours. others did it for two weeks. no one does that voluntarily. and i want to say first of all, thank you very much to everyone who did this work. what happened this summer was a man-made disaster. and that means that people need to do something now to stop this from happening again. no blame, but above all concrete steps forward. firstly, we must not put so many chemicals in the oder, even now that the mussels that used to be the river's filter system are dead. we need shared, transparent monitoring of the state of the river and cross-border warning systems so that we can catch up before anything happens, before it overturns, before the fish die again. and yes, just like this summer, the oder is not navigable for months every year. and no matter how deep someone digs, the oder does not become the rhine. the german-polish intergovernmental agreement must therefore be brought back on the table, it must be renegotiated in the sense of the european water framework directive. until this agreement is up to date, we need a construction stop so that no more is destroyed along the oder. i know, commissioner, that many of the points were also on your note. but that is why the commission should also critically examine the use of eu funds on the oder. because every day, things are being built here that are damaging the river instead of protecting it with eu money against eu rules. the first is that the oder is a very, very fragile ecosystem. so we must now finally sit down together and rationally - germany, poland, the czech republic and the eu - and think about how to proceed, in the interests of the river and, above all, in the interests of the people who live and work there.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in the summer, the oder region on the german-polish border suffered major damage to the ecosystem. tons of extinct fish and shellfish, and countless birds and beavers. the probable causes are man-made pollution and heat, which have led to low water levels, increased water temperatures and excessive salinity. polish officials are already blaming german authorities or companies for negligence or even blame. however, aquatic ecological studies indicate pollutants upstream of the oder. first signs of tension. eu environmental law has clear guidelines: the polluter pays principle and harm reduction. the scientific investigations should therefore be completed before any blame can be laid. if two member states cannot agree on the proper use of a few hundred kilometres of river, and almost fall over each other in the process, it does not look good - not good - for 27 member states to agree on the management and future of 4.5 million square kilometres of eu territory.
the commission has already done so. no one comes to reason by reason. we have a disaster now, and the measure will be that we succeed in drawing the right conclusions from this disaster. the leibniz institute for aquatic ecology has already pointed out in an initial opinion that the oder ecosystem needs to be renatured. we need to reopen the tributaries, we need to reopen old floodplains which are now used for agriculture, and above all we need to stop dredging and shipbuilding. we need to stop thinking that we have to standardize and standardise nature in general, and learn to live with what nature is. it has shaped our home, it has shaped our thinking, and we owe it to respect it, to respect it, and not to destroy it in the context of some short-term expansion. if there is something good, then we should discuss it now and obviously also across factions and that there is also hope that reason will prevail and we will not have a new disaster on the oder.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the proposals in the report to strengthen the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) are initially welcomed. no one is arguing that we should be better prepared and equipped for future pandemics and cross-border health threats. but why do i have the vague feeling that these useful reasons for strengthening the ecdc are just further steps towards the goal of having a complete health record of all citizens, a kind of borderless surveillance system in the style of china? when the director-general, mrs gallina, announced with glee in the committee on budgets two weeks ago that she had issued almost one billion covid certificates, i was left with a deadly laugh. this is an attack on the freedom of our citizens. we should not be supporting this any longer. commissioner, put this task back in the hands of the member states!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are indeed living in turbulent times, and there is a danger that in the sheer fear of a world war or another pandemic or the ideologues and priests of the new climate religion, we will lose sight of the issues that really matter, especially the fate of people who are persecuted for their faith. the number and severity of cases have increased alarmingly in recent years in all parts of the world, especially in the islamic world. our id group will therefore be receiving the nigerian bishop next week as a representative of a heavily persecuted christian group. we must not ignore these problems. we must not forget these persecuted people, and we must not abandon them. otherwise, the tyrants of this world, facing no opposition, will carry on their evil work unhindered. the commission, dear mrs dalli, must not remain inactive on this matter any longer and must appoint the commissioner for freedom of religion or belief. none of you have said anything about this yet. this can't be happening! please do something! many will thank you.
rapporteur. – madam president, just before the summer break, the commission proposed to us yet another emergency measure to tackle the consequences of the terrible war in ukraine. it is, though, the fifth time within two years to finance an emergency tool out of the funds of eu regional development. during the pandemic, we agreed upon more support for regions, citizens and the economies, as well as healthcare infrastructure through the corona response investment initiative, or crii, then followed up with crii+. this year we needed urgent help for regions, as regards to the support of refugees fleeing from the russian aggression in ukraine. we called it care, then another one care+. and now we are talking about fast-care. all these responses have shown that cohesion policy is able to help citizens in the long term but also, if need be, can react swift and in order to mitigate the impact of imminent crisis. however, we must take our responsibility as parliamentarians very serious and check very carefully if an emergency procedure is always justified. it cannot become the new modus operandi for the eu’s policy to use emergency procedure over and over again. because what’s next? what about the daily challenges and future ones, if we do not stick to the strategic goals of our policies and renounce resilience and preparedness? cohesion policy is of utmost importance for the whole european union. it is the main investment tool to help us eradicate social and territorial inequalities. cohesion policy means solidarity within and amongst regions. cohesion policy is not just a problem solver but a tool for democracy and we need that more than ever. we cannot and should not cut it whenever a crisis arises. instead, we must find other solutions. the commission must find different sources of funding. tomorrow, we will vote on fast-care – the proposed urgent procedure gave the regi committee a lot of headaches, to be honest, because of the matters of the principle that i already mentioned. we did take our time to look into the details of the proposal and to evaluate the substance of it. and this is our constitutional duty as co-legislators. fast-care now allows flexibility in terms of transfer between funds and regions, support for not only ukrainians but also third-country refugees, allows for more funding money for regions due to 100% subsidies and some more. and the commission has taken up on our call for direct funding for cities and municipalities that we express as the committee in various reports. now, 30% of the money for helping with refugees will be spent by local actors. this is a good start, but fast-care also allows for phasing of delayed projects in the current funding period. it is good to save this project and make sure that these resources already spent don’t go to waste. but it may include projects like construction of regional airports which are not eligible at all anymore and this is for good reason. all these measures are needed and, content wise, we support most of this without any hesitation. but all these measures simply mean cuts to the cohesion budget and do jeopardise the idea being behind cohesion policy, because it is a policy that not only has a real impact when it is implemented in a long-term approach by preparatory instruments and strategically considers all regions of europe. for emergency measures, fresh money is needed. we can’t tackle them only by shifting the existing money from a to b. we need a more flexible mff and not only a flexibilisation on an existing regulation. you know, i am a young european, i was involved in the conference on the future of europe process as well as the internal ep process and, of course, i am definitely in favour of modifying eu rules that are clearly outdated. but we exceptionally must take all fashion in one main regard when it comes to eu cohesion policy. we need to move back to the root of it as a strategic investment to secure overall harmonious development for all cities and regions in europe in the long term. with emergency measures like fast-care we risk to undermine our common goals, we risk to leave regions behind and we risk european democracies as a whole. because the political shift in europe arises, particularly from regions and citizens that do not feel heard and seen, that are left behind. and this is what we contact with a holistic and strategic approach from cohesion policy. and if we should focus on that, we would not even have to invest in most emergency measures because we would support regions in becoming resilient for future challenges, be it a pandemic in healthcare systems, be it an economic crash, or the environmental crisis ahead. we need commitment from the member states, we need commitment from the commission – for the commission to act in solidarity. so i call for the commission that if you should propose another emergency measure, i would ask you to provide also a plan on how to solve the issues in the long run, how to fade out from the emergency to regular legislation and how to finance them without dropping out of our future. thank you very much and i am looking forward for support for this fast-care proposal.
madam president, in princeton, ursula von der leyen blatantly interfered in the italian elections. she said, ‘if things go in a difficult direction – and i’ve spoken about hungary and poland – we have tools’. put bluntly, she threatened italy with article 7 legal proceedings and the withholding of eu funds. it’s not normally my style to use coarse metaphors, but there’s a time for figures and another for calling a spade a spade. the unelected, anti-democratic eu commission, which is violating the eu treaties left, right and centre, is criticising fairly and democratically elected governments as undemocratic. i’m afraid, though, it rather resembles a seasoned prostitute chastising women for pre-marital cohabitation as right old slappers.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. one for all, one cable to charge all devices - this has been the wish of many consumers here in the european union for years. and now, at last, that wish is coming true. in the future, you won't have to carry three different cables for three different devices when you travel. in the future, you won't have any more cable salad in your drawers. and soon we will be saving the european union 1,000 tons of useless e-waste a year. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy. parliament - as our rapporteur, mr agius saliba, has already said - has improved the commission's proposal in key areas. we've gotten to the point where even more devices are included, because that's the only way we can really talk about a universal charging cable. the commission is also proposing to standardize wireless charging in the future, although in a few years' time different standards will be on the market in europe. in addition, better information for consumers so that they do not have to buy a new cable for each device. the commission must continue to examine whether cables and equipment are not sold completely separately in the future, under pressure from us greens. because that would be the best thing for the environment. parliament has delivered against numerous lobbying interests and for consumers in the european union and for the climate. the road to this house has been a long one, a very long one, as many colleagues have already said. for more than ten years the commission has hesitated and hesitated. we must now finally put a dent in the circular economy, in all the exciting initiatives that are still in the pipeline, like the right to repair. the years of struggle for the common charging cable have shown that voluntary action does not bring much. clear regulation, legal certainty and predictability are key, also for businesses. producing, consuming and throwing away - the economic model of our throwaway society leads to the exploitation of resources beyond the limits of our planet. if we don't change that, by 2050, we'll need three earths to satisfy our resource hunger. this linear economy fuels the climate crisis, it leads to environmental destruction, human rights abuses in supply chains. and we're making ourselves vulnerable to crises and dependent on imports of raw materials. what is clear is that our economic model needs to change, to a circular economy. the common charging cable is an important step towards this.
president, we have been tinkering with the road for ten years, but now it is time! we're finally introducing a universal charger for everything from smartphones to laptops to e-readers and so on. finally, it's over with those cabinets full of chargers. that's a triple win, because it's cheaper for the consumer, it's easier, and we're also reducing the giant mountain of electronic waste. for smartphones, for laptops, for speakers alone, we're saving about half a billion chargers. that is over 13 000 tonnes! but, ladies and gentlemen, let us not stop here, because there are still many savings we can make for people and the planet. let us therefore make the maximum effort to promote the new legislation on ecodesign, on circularity and the right to repair. because that's good for the consumer, good for the planet and good for our economy!
madam president, commissioner vestager, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and ladies and gentlemen, on television at home too! today, we are defining the usb-c standard as a charging cable not only for smartphones, but also for other devices such as tablets and e-readers. this is a small thing, but it has a very, very big impact: over 100 million euros that will no longer be consumed unnecessarily, over 100 000 pieces of waste that will no longer have to be produced to protect the environment, but also an efficiency for the economy that will bring down prices for consumers. i am very pleased that we are doing this as a parliament. and i am also very pleased that we are able to achieve this in such a short time with the new majority in the commission and parliament, and the ten years that many colleagues are putting in the room - sometimes good things need a political majority. we now have a political majority in this parliament for more realpolitik. and, commissioner, let us continue to improve the lives of the people of the european union with this majority.
rapporteur. – madam president, the future is accessible because the present is not. dear president, dear mr commissioner breton – and i’m looking for mr breton as he is the commissioner responsible because it’s an imco file – but i’m very happy to have you here, dear helena. you are our ally when it comes to the rights of persons with disabilities. but it is, of course, not only on your shoulders the whole huge topic when it comes to accessibility. and dear colleagues, of course the outcome of our negotiation is a great success. for this, i would like to thank all those who have been so committed and active in bringing this own—initiative report to reality, especially to our shadows, my shadow colleagues from all the different groups. in recent years, the eu has approved several laws and technical standards, setting up a new ecosystem for accessibility such as the european accessibility act, the web accessibility directive, directives on audiovisual media services, electronic communication and technical specifications for railway stations and vehicles. moreover, when allocating the eu funds and in public procurement, accessibility requirements have to be taken into account. nevertheless, the implementation of this crucial set of laws at national level has not yet been satisfactory. this is mostly due to the lack of qualified accessibility experts at national level, both in public administration and among economic operators who would be able to implement highly technical accessibility provisions contained in legislation, but also in standards. we would like to concretise these and other tasks in an accessibleeu centre. without clear guidelines, inclusion remains arbitrary. the aim is therefore to harmonise the different ideas of inclusion in europe and the member states and to harmonise the different speeds in the implementation of existing legislation through organised knowledge-transfer. we need horizontal training programmes to increase expertise in accessibility. we also need strengthened coordination and cooperation frameworks between all acting levels and relevant stakeholders, which will permanently and sustainably ensure accessibility in all areas for persons with disabilities. the eu strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities 2021-2030 envisaged exactly such a centre, which is what we are now trying to launch with the central flagship initiative. however, the centre needs a few essential basic prerequisites for this. it will only give added value if the centre will be structured in order to guarantee constant and targeted support to the member states for implementing, monitoring and enforcing accessibility legislation, as well as to assist the commission in updating and developing accessibility laws. for this, adequate resources are needed, both in terms of personnel and finance. the same then applies to the respect of centres in the member states which also need to be established. the accessibleeu centre should consist of a lean structure composed of a secretariat, a forum and a number of subgroups of experts – ‘hear nothing about us without us’. it should become the hub for the collection and transfer of knowledge on accessibility and inclusion. this exchange must involve, as i said, persons with disabilities at all levels. our direct involvement and the perspective of organisation, representing persons with disabilities should influence policy recommendation, actions and standardisation process through the centre. again, thanks to all my colleagues. i listen now to your speeches and i’m looking forward to fruitful cooperation with you, helena dalli, and, of course, mr commissioner breton.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for those warm, appreciative and also corrective words. the future is accessible, the present not. hopefully the future will be barrier-free, because the present is not. it is still the case that disabled people have to justify this when they sue for their rights. "what more do you want?" is heard in parliaments, in public spaces. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is not a wish list, it's a human right. when we talk about inclusion, we're not talking about a fun kid's birthday party where everyone comes together in a colorful and diverse way. diversity is not something funny, something like, "oh, i have a gay boyfriend, but other than that, i'm not really interested in the rights of queer people". and, "yes, i used to work in a facility, and the people with disabilities, they were so inspiring. i loved it. that is called ableism, ladies and gentlemen. if we are to oppose racism and anti-semitism in the european union, we must also oppose ableism and disability hatred. the future is accessible, the present not. i hope that if we want to take concrete action, we can also create an accessibility agency here. it has to be visible, our rights have to be made visible, and for that you have to invest money too very clearly. otherwise, it's just a lip service. the commission has opened infringement proceedings against almost all european member states in the summer when almost all of us were on holiday, for not reporting on the state of accessibility. well, i can say it with anger: where nothing is implemented, there can be no report. it is a shame that it is still the case that the anti-discrimination directive, the fifth, is still blocked in the council. what lasts long, eventually becomes bad, some may believe. show me the importance of this accessibleeu centre, even as an agency, and we will all fight for it together.
in writing. the message being conveyed here is that roma are discriminated against and stigmatized everywhere and by everyone. we are all potential antigypsies. even entire governments and countries are under suspicion. if we invest even more money in failed projects, and build a comprehensive roma industry and a european monitoring system, then the problems would solve themselves. once again parliament refuses to accept reality. the reality is that many roma are simply not ready to integrate into our societies. one of the biggest obstacles to integration is the formation of ghettos in the settlements with their patriarchal-feudal structures. police reports indicate that beggars from roma communities belong to organized clans with a hierarchical structure and that there is clear evidence of child exploitation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. that's not the way to solve the problem. it's time for a new strategy. without taboos and with the right structural approaches.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. every day, 150 species of animals and plants die around the world every day. we're experiencing the largest mass extinction in over 60 million years. and we know where that's coming from. the cites convention is the only international, sharp sword we have to curb the unscrupulous trade in endangered species. but as my colleagues have said, we are also protecting the ecosystems in which these species are found. forests around the world are home to a huge diversity of life, and they also regulate our global climate. we need them both in the fight against the climate crisis and in the fight against the extinction of species, because species-rich forests give us life. an ambitious eu position at cop19 in panama, as decided by the environment committee, must be a real game changer. because the purpose of banning trade in some endangered species is also to make the exploitative business model of deforestation unprofitable. let's take the green deal at its word and negotiate consistently.
mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner, and thank you all, for this very interesting debate. i really liked the point on change of perspective – how can we bring people back to these areas? i think a lot of young families actually want to go back because i’ve talked to a lot of them and they say ‘i would like to come back, but i don’t have what i need. i don’t have a kindergarten for my children a school or something like this.’ so we know what people need. they need jobs. they need infrastructure like social infrastructure, kindergarten, schools. they need mobility apart from cars, like trains, buses, etc. they need a culture and possibilities to do something. they sometimes just need a fucking pub, you know, to do something and relax a little bit. i think this is the theory, and we now need to go to the practice. the practice means that every region is different and that we need to listen to the people and ask them, what do you need in your region? we have instruments for that, and that instrument is called clld. we have brought clld to the attention of the cohesion instruments like esf and erdf, but they are rarely used. so my question to the commission is, why are the member states not using this tool that we offered them? why do the member states not include that in their policy? and the other question that i have is, how can we bring rural development together with the erdf, together with the esf? because there is economy, there is a social infrastructure in rural areas and it is needed to be improved. so please use this tool also in the future cohesion policy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – frau vorsitzende, dear colleagues, dear commissioner hahn, almost two years ago we gave you a very powerful tool to protect the rule of law and eu money. and yet today we witness that you are dismantling this tool in front of our eyes. yes, a couple of weeks ago you announced that you want to suspend eur 7.5 billion to the orbán regime, and that sounds nice. but really what you’re doing is you’re breaking the most powerful tool we actually have to protect the eu’s budget from the kleptocrat that is viktor orbán and his friends and family. dear colleagues, let me tell you why i fear that the commission is actually not doing its duty. first, and the colleague has just said it, eur 7.5 billion is only 15% of the eu funds that hungary receives, so the lion’s share goes untouched and into a corrupt system. second, if you look at the 17 measures that orbán now has to fulfil, it’s actually impossible to monitor this over just a couple of weeks. so the commission will end the procedure in december based on mere promises from viktor orbán. and to count on orbán’s word after 12 years, after time and again having been fooled by him, i think that’s pretty ridiculous now to just trust his word and not his action. third, the anti-corruption authority that is the central pillar of the reform has no power to prosecute. so it relies on a prosecutor that we know is politically controlled by orbán; it relies on courts where we know that they are politically controlled by orbán. which brings me to the fourth point, which is in this conditionality procedure on the rule of law, it seems that the commission has somehow forgotten the rule-of-law part, because there is not a single measure concerning the rule of law, the independence of justice. so, mr hahn, i fear that there is a very small window of opportunity here to use this tool and to do some good and to protect the rule of law in the union. but if you are aware – and i know you are aware – of the corruption but you do nothing, then i think if this is out of fear to make full use of the tools that you have, well then you might not be the right person to protect the financial interests of the union. thank you very much.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. so now hungary again. the commission cannot, however, make a case against hungary which it cannot make against other countries, as we have just heard. the rule of law has also been undermined in germany, france, austria, spain and particularly malta. freedom of expression is threatened, the rule of law is threatened, and corruption is a problem everywhere. but these countries, ironically, have no problem with the commission, because they do not have a conservative government either, and only conservative governments are smeared with dirt and covered with article 7 procedures by this parliament and the commission. in germany we have always had the highest support for the eu. it is now breaking out dramatically, also in other countries. what's the reason? i think it is also due to such proceedings as those against hungary. we see that people are simply not interested in the constant interference. and when we talk about interference, we are talking about such arrogant interference as mrs von der leyen has shown just before the elections in italy. the receipt came right away. we are experiencing exactly the same thing in hungary. mrs von der leyen, who was not elected and who has no democratic legitimacy, has the nerve to call the prime minister, who has just been re-elected by a large majority of hungarians, to the applause of many members of this house, an electoral autocrat. you really have to wonder if you all know the rules of democracy. i think people are tired of these interferences, they are also tired of these somewhat pointless procedures that never end anyway. they suffer from the energy crisis, they suffer from migration, they suffer from deindustrialization, especially from germany. i know you're smiling about it, but you'll get it soon enough. and i think that instead of getting upset about hungary, we should be dealing with the serious problems of the people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you follow the debate here, you will see what usually happens in this debate: the right wing here in parliament defends hungary, says that this is all political and so on and so forth. corruption is found in all eu countries. ten times higher, ten times higher than in other average countries, is the misuse of eu funds in hungary! it's just that - you want to hide this - money is being stolen from hungarians and ending up in the pockets of viktor orbán's friends. that is what the right wing is trying to hide here in parliament. at the same time - and this is something that really needs to be heard, commissioner - the right wing in parliament is praising the commission's approach! that's actually what's happening here with this mechanism. because we know that in the end, no money will be withheld. and this will be met with great applause from the right and the enemies of the rule of law in europe. the timetable you use as an excuse to say that we do not have the time for this mechanism, that we must decide now and then look at the measures at that time is a forward-looking argument. it's wrong. they might as well keep the seven and a half billion euros, in my view even more. and then, under this mechanism, hungary would have the opportunity at any time to present evidence that these laws that are being adopted now - that's good, we're happy to look at that too, but we want to see it - that these laws, these changes actually change something in practice, that money no longer flows into the dark pockets, that corruption is being fought. until that happens, you should withhold the funds. i have to say, madam president, i'm happy to accept the blue card, but i'm a little surprised why i didn't get a blue card on my display just now. i'm surprised at you. i would have liked to have asked the colleagues questions too. if the blue card is now possible, i would be very happy to do so in the debate, and i would of course be very happy to accept a blue card! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 171 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i do not think i need to comment on statements by foreign minister baerbock which have been taken out of context. but i also did not in any way at any point in my speech talk about democracy and the question of whether viktor orbán won the election the osce says the election was free but not fair . the fact that you are going back to democracy and elections shows that you do not really want to talk about what this is about, namely projects where money is flowing endlessly into the pockets of viktor orbán's friends, where the european anti-fraud office says that 4% of all eu funds are misused. you don't want to talk about this, about stealing eu money, about stealing taxpayer money. that's why you're always dodging, and you just proved it again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is the first time that the rule of law mechanism has been used. i am addressing the commission and the council first and foremost today. because i think you've really screwed up so far. two years of waiting to apply the mechanism at all, and then finally starting the procedure the day after the election. honestly, the arguments we are hearing now are served on a silver platter, that is a halfhearted application of only a very, very small part of the problems we see in hungary, and then to settle for apparently, that's what we all suspect without really being able to check for effectiveness. my husband is a coach, a professional athletic coach, and i'm learning a lot about how to reach a goal and how to keep a group together. and one thing i know: it's all about leadership. if you don't see the leaders upholding the values, the team doesn't follow, and then it falls apart. i see that danger right here, right now. if you screw this up, you will lose many, many committed europeans, including those in this house. (the president agreed to reply to a question under the 'blue card' procedure provided for in rule 172 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
, answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. once again, i have the opportunity to set things right. i said i want to starve the corrupt orbán system. and that's exactly right. if you can explain to me how viktor orbán's best friend from school, mr mészáros, comes to 1.3 billion euros of private wealth, then i believe you want to do something against corruption. you're not even willing to join the anti-corruption authority, the eusta, the european public prosecutor's office. if you're not afraid of an independent investigation, why don't you join us? that would be independent! not some puppets that you can put in nice-looking government offices, nice buildings. if these are all orbán's puppets again, we know that! orbán's puppets are in every government office, the entire state apparatus is permeated with them. join the eusta, and we'll believe you.
madam president, commissioner, for three years i’ve been in this house now and every year the situation in hungary got worse. for three years we have debates here, we have condemnations, we have strong resolutions. and what did orbán do in this time? he circulated racist rhetorics about mixed races, he had unfair elections and – yes – he continued to steal money every day, european taxpayers’ money. so now finally you have him. you have him because we gave you the power and the tools to actually hold him accountable. so i ask you now, once again: don’t push the conflict down the road to the rrf milestones and targets; make the money only available if there are actual reforms. and as a final remark, i have to say, i think this shows us again that we need to elect the european commission directly, that we actually reform the european union so that we can hold our government accountable and actually push for change. thank you very much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. after my grandfather was assassinated shortly after the founding of the islamic republic, my family fled iran to europe to live in freedom. and it's thanks to them that i, as a young woman, can stand here and speak in public. for freedoms like these, women in iran take to the streets. for years they were oppressed, and any attempt to gain freedom was punished. the state controls not only appearance, religion, identity, but also the information that people in iran get and what they can carry out. if we don't look, these brave people stand alone against a ruthless, brutal regime. our solidarity in europe must be made concrete. we need to extend the eu sanctions. we need to impose visa-stoppers on the regime. we have to guarantee asylum. and we need to be loud, use our voices to amplify those of the protesters in iran. for jhina mahsa amini, for women, for life, for freedom (the speaker uses a slogan in a language that is not an official language.) (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank all those involved, and especially the rapporteur, for the work that has gone into this comprehensive report. as members of parliament we can look at a rather progressive text here, which complements and significantly improves the council's position on a number of important aspects. because, also in view of the geopolitical dynamics, it is important that the actors in the region are the first to take responsibility for any initiatives. with a view to peace and security and increased cooperation with the european and african union, it is important to understand the concept of human security as the basis of any initiative. local approaches should be taken into account in the development of structures and institutions. the climate crisis is understood as a risk multiplier and strategically anchored. our partnership engagement through the global gateway initiative also requires new forms of responsiveness. complaints mechanisms for eu infringements need to become the new standard proactive. i thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for the good cooperation and we hope for the best for the horn of africa.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 5 october 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr miguel urbán crespo, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on 'access to water as a human right and the external dimension' (2021/2187 (ini)) (a9-0231/2022).
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of water supplies. corrupt governments are responsible for allowing for-profit companies to extract billions of dollars from the local people. the solution presented here is the same as always: the european taxpayer should act as the social welfare office for the world and ensure access to clean water through billions of payments. the aim is to develop a 'gender-sensitive intersectional approach'. whatever that means in this context, it's just ideological nonsense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are helping the developing countries by encouraging them to take responsibility for themselves, not by compensating and compensating for the failure of their corrupt governments, time and again, with billions of european taxpayers' money, even at a time when millions and millions of europeans no longer have enough money to eat or to heat their homes. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. remember that!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 5 october 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the explanations of vote. i have three requests for explanations of vote on three different items on the agenda, but all from the same person. dear colleague sean kelly, we're going to be having a one-on-one for a while.
that concludes this item.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, 5 october 2022, at 9:00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have sent out floral expressions of solidarity with the ukrainian people for long enough. the hasty pseudo-referendums in the occupied ukrainian territories and the mobilization of the russian population, which putin never wanted, show that putin does not understand the flowery language of speeches, but the resolute language of deeds. not words, not financial aid, not regrets, not tribunals, not the unconventional mourning messages to the ukrainian people, but the conventional weapons that ukrainians need. so i'm not going to make any big speeches here. the others have already done so. perhaps a few points from the resolution we adopted. first, and most importantly, the incorporation of the occupied territories may change something for north korea, but for us, for the international community, it changes nothing, nothing at all. the occupied territories remain occupied territories, the liberation war remains a liberation war, and ukraine remains ukraine within the borders that are its own, that is, including the eastern borders in the areas of zaporizhia, donetsk, luhansk, kherson and up to the southern tip of crimea. this is reality, and it will remain so! secondly, the sanctions on personnel, which must be extended. i would like to ask the member states and the commission: put the officials from the duma to regional parliaments and district parliaments of russia on the list. all those who belong to the duma parties, those are the ones who carry the war, those are the ones who support the war and putin. they need to be on the list. third, the security of our infrastructure is not a game. it is not possible that we can monitor 100% of the data that travels around the world through a few ships. we cannot pass this on as a corporate responsibility to the corporations. we're in the middle of an attack on us that's taking place. and here we must be prepared. and finally, our steadfastness in the months ahead will determine the outcome of this confrontation. yes, we are in a confrontation. we have not let ourselves be divided by aggression, and we should not let ourselves be divided by economic problems. this means that some member states have already made progress with economic subsidies. but we need to europeanise these efforts. we need a common and green solution, a european one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. only then will we win this confrontation.
madam president, thank you very much. we see illegal annexations, we see mobilization, we hear the threat of nuclear weapons. russia's war against ukraine has entered a new phase. if the eu is to continue to be taken seriously, it must find a way to respond to this. and it must be more than useless sanctions that harm their own countries first and foremost. but it is not only the russian-ukrainian war that threatens us. the unprecedented act of piracy against the supply infrastructure, against nord stream 1 and 2, has also shown the vulnerability of europe. strangely enough, that doesn't seem to be the issue here. everyone's just shrugging it off like it doesn't matter that one of the main gas lines here has been damaged. who did it? the following evidence is beyond question. first, us units are currently cruising in the baltic sea. secondly, according to satellite images, us military helicopters from danzig were in the air just before the attack. the us president had announced that he would prevent the commissioning of nord stream 2 in any case. after the attacks, us secretary of state blinken did not condemn this act of piracy, but welcomed it as a great opportunity to sell liquefied gas to europe. and former polish foreign minister sikorski, a member of this parliament, publicly thanked the americans in a tweet for the attacks. so who could be the perpetrators? for most of the media, of course, it's clear: it was putin. but that says a lot about journalism, and it's as plausible as north korea, iran or greta thunberg. the european commission should look very, very closely at this, and we have already made a request for information on this, and it will be interesting to see who among you supports this request. this attack, as everyone must be aware, has the potential to tear apart not only nato, but also the eu.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, putin is neither a master strategist nor a geopolitical genius. he is a terrorist who is only capable of bombing children and blackmailing us with doomsday. in these efforts, useful idiots are his main asset, these useful idiots, and they are plenty – from politicians to tech entrepreneurs, should not be allowed to define the narrative. the chaotic mobilisation of troops and threatening the world with nuclear weapons only prove one thing: putin is desperate. desperate because he is losing the war that he vowed to win in three days. desperate because his sanctions are biting and his propaganda cannot outweigh the empty russian riches for long. desperate because he hears the voices of mutiny in the kremlin corridors getting louder and louder. putin is russia’s greatest enemy and his end is in sight. until then, we will continue standing firmly with ukraine. arm them with heavy weapons. support the eu initiative for tanks so that its brave people finally win this war.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not this parliament wants to combat the so-called anti-european and anti-ukrainian propaganda which is allegedly being spread by russia. this raises the question: when is criticism of the eu and the ukrainian government anti-european and anti-ukrainian propaganda? here are three facts and three questions for you. firstly, radek sikorski, former polish minister of foreign affairs and defence and currently a member of this house, has explicitly thanked the us on twitter for the sabotage of the nord stream pipelines. he and his wife have the closest ties to the white house and the biden administration. do you really think mr sikorski is spreading anti-ukrainian propaganda or is being paid by russia? what if he had other backers? secondly, the european parliament rightly wants to curb money laundering and tax evasion. but ukrainian president zelensky received $41 million in offshore accounts from oligarch kolomoisky. we know this from the pandora papers, which revealed the secret offshore accounts of 35 heads of government. is that why the pandora papers are anti-ukrainian propaganda? thirdly, according to the transparency international corruption perceptions index, ukraine is by far the most corrupt country in europe. is this anti-ukrainian russian propaganda? all these facts are being suppressed by western governments and state-controlled media. it seems to me that our problem is more state-funded pro-eu opinion-making than russian criticism of the eu or anti-ukrainian propaganda.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, before russia used tanks, russian propaganda took aim at ukraine and the eu. they unleashed their trolls, paid bloggers and corrupt politicians. they infiltrated european governments. they bought up radio frequencies and other critical infrastructure. all this while we stood idly by. it is high time to grow a spine and stand up to the russian aggression, not only on the battlefield but also in the information field. putin will use all our weaknesses if we allow him to. the upcoming winter will not be easy. we need and we must introduce a sanctions regime for disinformation. this should be a warning to anyone who dares to interfere in our democracies. lastly, the eu delegation should become the stronghold of fighting the anti—eu propaganda abroad, particularly in the balkans and the south caucasus. the delegation needs to be bolstered with facts and effective strategies. they should be more vocal in defending the truth and refuting the shameless lies that russia spreads every day.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's focus is on the influence of putin's western aides and how to stop that influence. that certainly makes sense. putin was a criminal before he invaded ukraine. the murders of boris nemtsov, anna politkovskaya and stanislav markelow speak volumes, as does the inexplicable tendency of many russian opposition figures to jump to their deaths from great heights. but who are putin's aides in europe? the much-cheered angela merkel in this house, who, with the support of all her party supporters here in parliament and in the german bundestag, made germany dependent on russian natural gas? former chancellor gerhard schröder, who threw in the gas deals and called putin a pure democrat? the whole social democratic party of germany, which for years actively supported the course of gerhard schröder? or is the left party one of putin's aides? after all, the left and its predecessors have always been paid by moscow, and until recently the left addressed tributes to the kremlin. most likely greenpeace is also one of putin's aides. that's what nato says. nato is certain that greenpeace received funds from russia to fight fracking. and anyone who has read the extremely pro-russian anti-ukrainian article that greenpeace recently had to delete after violent protests can actually come to the conclusion that greenpeace is also one of putin's helpers. maybe putin is funding fridays for future and greta thunberg. at least that's what hillary clinton said a while ago, and clinton is certainly not a member of the right-wing spectrum. the aforementioned angela merkel also expressed this assumption. merkel said it was completely out of the question that a large anti-western movement could emerge out of nowhere and without massive financial support. the european parliament, in inviting greta thunberg, was it hoping to court a putin aide? you see, i'd really like to know who putin's aides are. the issue is too important to be used for partisan purposes. so let's look at it closely, but please be objective and in all directions.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. putin is waging his war against democracy on several fronts: in ukraine with crimes against human beings, in the rest of the world with propaganda and lies. and while putin is suffering defeat after defeat on the ukraine front, his propaganda war on the internet is very successful, because he has two great allies. the first is the far-right politicians and networks in europe, in the us, who systematically take the propaganda lies from russian troll factories and spread them to us. and the second ally is social media itself, a breeding ground for lies and propaganda. their greed for our attention, which they use to make a lot of money with advertising - because that's what's behind it - comes at the expense of the truth. their algorithms spread riveting content faster than any fact, and thanks to their extensive data profiles, they're surgically precise. we must expose and eliminate these hidden enemies of democracy. the digital services act is a very sharp sword which the european commission and the member states must now use.
mr president, the first victim in war is the truth – you all know the saying. but i would say that if you want to start a war, you first have to kill the truth. putin has been doing this for decades now – and also in europe, like supporting la lega, rassemblement national, fpö and the afd. by the way, those colleagues all fled this debate like the russians flee from the ukrainian forces. but also, the biggest target group for russia is in russia. russians have been brainwashed for ages, have been fed that the world hates them, that only putin can save them, that every war is justified for russia to free the world from ... from what? from freedom? from liberty? this we must tackle urgently, and this means we need to be active also in russia. please commissioner, we cannot expect old people to go to the internet, get a vpn and get the information themselves. we have to address them through the radio, through tv, and we have to make sure that they are informed with the truth and that they know one thing – we are not the enemies of the russian people. the enemies of the russian people, the thieves of russian money, the murders of russian sons and husbands ... sit in the kremlin!
mr president, mr bek, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if the afd speaks in this house of the need for objective debates, i can only say: beware! i'm afraid mr. beck is no longer with us. but i want to say again here: it was indeed a mistake by many parties to trust putin for so long. but it is his party, and it is his state chairman höcke, who in august this year called for the opening of nord stream 2. so much for the facts in the house. and what parties are now exploiting the fears and concerns of the people, driving them into the streets, trying to destabilize democracies? these are the right-wing populists. these are the post-fascists, and they're doing putin's business. he can rub his hands together, because that's what he's trying to do. and he's got an army of bots helping him do it, and a whole bunch of useful idiots who are going to spread it around. and it was the us intelligence that recently pointed out that right-wing populist parties and candidates received over 300 million francs after the annexation of crimea in 2014 to destabilize our democracy, and we have to put a stop to that. this can't be happening. but that is why those who now talk about ukrainian refugees being welfare tourists or social tourists are also setting the fire here in such a situation. let us all work together to prevent putin from winning.
mr president, it’s good that at last we are starting to treat this aspect of the war completely seriously. it’s encouraging to see the determination of minister bek and of commissioner schinas and the activities presented, but we need them not as words – we really need them as facts. i would like to quote the numbers evoked here already by guy verhofstadt. out of 6 676 names identified by the navalny foundation as a propaganda machine, 135 were proposed for sanctions and only six were sanctioned – only six were sanctioned. facebook identified 60 disinformation sites. they hid under the names and visualisation of well—known media like the guardian, der spiegel, bild. they used false profiles, false accounts in seven languages. i remember when barack obama, proud about the us it companies, declared ‘the internet is ours’. but it is putin who successfully uses it as a war tool... (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, we’ve entered a new phase in the unnecessary and callous war waged by vladimir putin. his shambolic and illegal referendums have served as a fickle means for russia to try to absorb thousands of square kilometres of ukrainian territory in what will be the largest forced annexation of land in europe since 1945. like the heinous war crimes that are part of russian standard military tactics, disinformation has now become a fundamental element of russia’s international relations. last week, within hours of the nord stream pipeline explosion, disinformation, fitting the pattern of russian information warfare was immediately circulated on social media platforms. this is a very sophisticated and covert operation, which at this stage is a well—oiled machine that has proven to be effective in many circumstances. it’s amplified to social media algorithms. the aim is to flood social media with false information, to blur the lines of fact and deter public opinion from supporting ukraine, depicting it as a failed, corrupt, nazi state. disinformation has been so effective that many so-called ‘free thinkers’ have been reduced to unwitting kremlin spokespersons. it is time to strongly counter this disinformation in the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. because of putin, people have been dying in ukraine every day since february. and of course, we as the eu are not going to stand by and watch. we are the global peace and freedom project and we will never stand by and watch. sanctions are the least we can do to stop funding this warmonger. however, these sanctions are being questioned. we are aware that putin has been investing money in the eu for years in his propaganda machine. the fact that putin's aides are openly and regularly taking his side here - whether in this parliament or in national parliaments - is not our main problem. our primary problem is putin's disinformation campaign on social networks and in the media. we must be very clear about this and take action. that is why we must uncover and combat these hidden channels. we have to be better than the russian propaganda. we must be better at educating people in the european union, and that is the most important thing. putin must not win this war, neither in ukraine nor in our information space.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, and many people in germany are thinking: yes, that is already the case! that is why there are now about ten times as many romanians and bulgarians living in germany as there were ten years ago. and these people often receive welfare benefits, often receive child support for children at home, and they often work in the low-wage sector, often in the meat industry, where they are exploited in slave-like conditions and contribute to wage dumping. so not all of it really positive. about six months ago, on my trip to ukraine, i drove through romania, and i got to know romania. i would like to describe romania in a friendly way: romania is the wild west of europe. so, the wild west in the middle of europe! in ukraine, i saw a much better infrastructure and much more order. the question is, how could this happen? how could a country with such infrastructure, a country that is so corrupt and so criminal, become a member of the european union? didn't anyone look? i wondered. when i was driving through this country, did anyone look? apparently not. so, a lot of money has flowed in the last few years. you know, people always think that if you put money into corrupt countries, everything will be better. i'm not going to. these corrupt structures use this money. for example, a study by the centre for democracy finds that the amount of eu money is comparable to the largest markets for organised crime such as human trafficking - meaning prostitution and smuggling - drug trafficking and illegal fuel. that is how much money the eu is bringing in. about two billion of them are locked up in criminal structures. the bulgarian-turkish border was in the hands of the mafia for years. now it's been recaptured, they say. that means the mob's wearing uniforms now. these are unbearable conditions! this has to stop. we do not need romania and bulgaria in the schengen area, nor in the eu.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, for 11 long years, romanians and bulgarians have been waiting here for the door to the schengen area to finally open and for them to have this privilege that all european women want to enjoy. it has been said that 27 million people are affected, tens of thousands of businesses, and both member states meet all the criteria. now you ask yourself: ok, the parliament has already given the green light. the commission has also reiterated that it has given the go-ahead. but it is the council that has not given the green light. and i want to make one more point about the countries that are blocking this: it's the very same intellectual arsonists like this screamer in this room that are scaring the governments that are blocking this. and they must act against it, because to tolerate it, to accept it, creates much more division in europe. but i would like to ask the council: i think it is a great opportunity for the czech presidency to help open this door after 11 years. so it's important that we not just say what an achievement this is, but do it. but let me also say this: it is once again unanimity that makes it possible for one country to prevent for 11 years, if all the criteria are met, the law from being enforced and that this can be prevented. we must change that too. it has been emphasized here that if we continue to have first-class freedom of movement and second-class freedom of movement, this will shake confidence in european law and in the institutions. i therefore appeal to you, mr bek, as the czech presidency, to make a difference here, to give us the courage to make this decision. it's been overdue for 11 years. 22 is the year for that.
i have to say, madam president, when bulgaria and romania applied for membership of the schengen area in 2011, the eu council of ministers rejected them. germany and france, among others, expressed concern about shortcomings in the fight against corruption and the rule of law. suddenly, macron and scholz are supporting the accession of both countries as well as croatia, even though bulgaria, croatia and romania have not made progress in fighting corruption and crime over the past decade, according to transparency international's corruption index. so why the green light? the reason seems clear: with her new eu migration pact, von der leyen plans to create new, so-called safe routes for migrants to enter the eu, sparing them the dangerous sea route. the bulgarian-turkish border fence has been an effective obstacle so far. in future, however, migrants will be redistributed directly to northern and central europe at the eu's external border. bulgaria's accession to the schengen area also allows non-eu citizens - i.e. migrants - to obtain schengen visas in bulgaria, in order to settle illegally in safe countries such as germany after their visa expires. instead of extending schengen to include three corrupt member states, we should think about schengen as quickly as possible. we need two major reforms. firstly, the extension of internal border controls in the schengen area. the coronavirus crisis has shown that this is legally safe. and secondly, effective protection of the eu's external border. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by means of a 'blue card' procedure.)
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. i don't know what the applause is about, because i didn't quite understand the question. there was talk of insult. as i recall, and i'm looking at my notes here, i said two things in essence: firstly, the accession of romania and bulgaria could encourage mass immigration. i don't see any reason why not. secondly, i said that romania and bulgaria remain vulnerable to corruption. i refer to transparency international. i wish it were different, and i would make the same criticism of any other state. so i was not thinking particularly of bulgaria and romania, but the information i found unfortunately seems to support my statement. i didn't mean to offend, and i'm very sorry if you take it that way.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know if you can understand me, but i am feeling a little frustrated. and that's not just me, but all the citizens of my country. how many times do we have to argue? how many times must we vote in the european parliament? how many times must the commission write to the council, to the 27 heads of state or government, who teach us that democracy is a matter of one president of state or government, rather than tens of millions of citizens? is this european democracy? could he tell us - and i am addressing the 27 heads of state and government, including the president of my country - could he tell us what point in the treaty, what point in the schengen regulation is not being fulfilled by romania or bulgaria? and i don't know if these gentlemen heads of state have ever been in a concrete business, not the other types, to understand what it means to waste time if you have a transport company, as a citizen. i don't know if he would understand, but i ask him as a former businessman: if we were to calculate, the moral and financial damage of 11 years created to millions of citizens of my country, how could he pay? i demand imperatively that romania and the citizens of my country enjoy the same ... (the president withdrew the speaker's speech).
mr president, i was three when the berlin wall fell; i was 13 when schengen became an integral part of the amsterdam treaties; i was about to finish school when 10 new member states joined the european family, so schengen and europe have always been a part of my life. i have experienced it as an open, as a free, as a promising continent, and it has become even more so in recent times. i would have been 24 when new member states could have joined the schengen area: some 30 million citizens eagerly awaiting to experience that freedom as well, if the council had acted. the steps needed had been taken, criteria had been met, cooperation and consultation was not only signalled but brought to life. after all, schengen remains one of the most important achievements of the european union. it is more than a political showcase; it is a fundamental right of all eu citizens; it is lived by the people of the european union; it’s part of our european dna. can we do more to preserve it and to strengthen it? yes, of course. it's an achievement. it must be cherished; it must be nurtured; it must be guarded. would it be an enormous step, an important step ahead in welcoming new members to the schengen area? of course, yes. it would foster our internal security, strengthen our union, and ease the burden for european citizens. i’m 36 now and i would be more than happy to see these accessions before another birthday passes by.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. trade is the essential key to achieving prosperity and peace throughout the world. the european union emerged from the european economic community to form a large trading bloc, and today we are the largest trading bloc in the world. this is something that is bound to be shared, and it's a success story. the issues we are discussing today reflect precisely the dilemma that we want to promote trade on the one hand, but on the other hand we are also beginning to politicise trade very strongly - with negative consequences for both trade and trading partners. unfortunately, this starts with the very first question, which is about sanctions. this is an amazing emphasis, and while there may be sanctions, if this is the first question asked, it shows that the focus of our trade policy has shifted from enabling trade to rules enforcing policy. and here we have our problems. what's it like? we all want development, we want sustainable development and we want it worldwide. but this sustainable development is in the mutual interest of all trading partners, so that it will not be necessary, as a rule, to threaten sanctions immediately, but that this is based on reciprocity. if we have to start imposing sanctions, the question arises whether the objectives of sustainable development that we are setting are really so convincing to everyone or whether a new form of eurocentrism is not taking place here, that we are making political demands from europe to our trading partners, who are usually poorer and weaker, without them being able to support them in substance, and that they then have to be forced to do so by means of sanctions. in this sense, we are saying, yes, we want trade, we want sustainable development, but we must be careful not to overshot the mark and that we do not misuse trade to a new form of neo-colonialism that ultimately harms us and our trading partners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the natural disaster in pakistan is indeed appalling. a monsoon that normally ends in august and doesn't end in september - that's unique, temperatures over 50 degrees. and if we can see something politically positive, it's the great global aid, that countries that are otherwise political opponents, even enemies, are helping. the united states, china and the european union are pulling together. when did this happen? that is the message for pakistan in the future. we want to remain on board as europeans in this region. that's why i'm glad that ambassador khan is here today, because it shows that pakistan wants us to be here. we want europe to be a great global peace-building power of trade, of balance and of partnership. and i think we can show it here. but the future cannot be about being the only helpers and generous donors, but about partnerships that also respect diversity. that is why i am opposed to your view, mr van dalen, that pakistan must remain in gsp+, because the only way we can achieve this is by remaining in this central asian region. if we pull out, we're out. but when we're out there, we can't influence anything -- influence not in the sense of dictatorship of a prescription, but influence in the sense of a partnership, a give and take. i think we should take the opportunity now, when this flood disaster is over to some extent, which i hope we will do, to work on strengthening our position in central asia, strengthening as partners, strengthening with respect for other ways and also as partners with other players, even if we don't like some of them.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, colleagues, today we once again want to be a voice for the democracy activists, human rights activists, journalists and so many more that are oppressed by the tatmadaw. human rights and democracy in myanmar have eroded in a landslide since the military coup. in fact, myanmar is now the world’s second largest jailer of journalists. this is seriously a list you don’t want to be so high on. colleagues, the conflict of our time is autocracy versus democracy. the autocrats and despots of the world terrorise and murder in their fear of freedom and democracy. and that is why, to be very frank, it’s so unbearable to me that the commission has done so little to support myanmar. in fact, we’re discussing it the fourth time, and mr borrell is not even here for the fourth time. but, nevertheless, i’m going to call on the commission for a fourth time – hopefully the last time – to ensure that none of the military companies are benefiting from the preferential access to our single market. suspend the trade benefits because as the european union, we must live up to our responsibilities as an economic and democratic power. we need to stay strong and united by the side of freedom and democracy in europe and the world.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. for more than two years, the conflict in ethiopia, particularly in tigray, has been raging and has spread to neighboring regions. but there is light at the end of the tunnel, because the two warring parties have agreed that they finally want to have peace talks, peace talks that are being held in south africa. we in the european parliament can only support the fact that these peace talks are actually producing results. because the result of two years of war in tigray and the surrounding regions is devastating for the people. it is the weakest who suffer most, especially children. in a situation where the war has prevented humanitarian aid from being delivered, children suffer the most. children are being used as child soldiers to fight in this war, as teenagers, as little ones with guns in their hands. it's a terrible idea that something like this is allowed. women are systematically raped and sexual violence is used as a weapon of war - something we cannot tolerate. and we have to be clear here: these are war crimes, these are crimes against humanity, and they must be punished. that is why it is very, very important that we make it clear in this resolution that it is precisely these war crimes that need to be addressed. it is right that a peace process is now being launched. but any peace process must also include holding accountable those who have behaved in a manner that is inhumane on both sides of the conflict. and we wish the ethiopians that they can walk this path together as one country.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the commission, honourable guests, please come to the podium. first, as i said, the good news is there's light at the end of the tunnel. there are to be peace talks, which will probably take place on 8 october and which i hope will be the beginning of a dialogue which will end in a lasting peace in the country for the benefit of all citizens. although the responsibility for the process and its success lies with our african partners, it is right and important to keep a constant eye on the situation in ethiopia, especially at a time when european attention is focused on the union itself and on another war in the east of the continent. the present resolution naturally takes up many of the points which have already been raised in the previous resolutions. but the focus on the welfare of children is still more than adequate. because they are the ones who suffer and the victims in a big way. the fact remains that this war is being waged by the media in order to gain control over the interpretation of developments. it is therefore good that we can finally look forward to a balanced text that addresses all the parties to this war in an appropriate way and condemns them accordingly. the recruitment of child soldiers is and remains a war crime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the support for emergency rehabilitation centres for women and children, including children born after rape, is the least that europe can do. the serious cases of gender-based violence committed by all parties to the conflict must be fully investigated. the mandate of the un commission on human rights must therefore be extended, without limitation in time or geography. in addition, experience shows that it is not enough to suspend aid, but that the commission must reconsider its limitation of budgetary aid in order to continue to allow development projects to be carried out outside the conflict zone. the success of a lasting peace in the country and the region, the peace we all so ardently desire, also depends on this.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the dutch childcare benefit scandal epitomises what the former un special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, philip alston, calls a digital welfare dystopia. it specifically targets poorer citizens rather than rich people evading taxes, where in case of fraud, the sums to recover would be much higher. the system is racist. there is no simple redress and the system targets people who can’t afford to – or are unlikely to – go to court. the principle of innocent until proven guilty is overturned. innocent people are treated like criminals. fundamental principles of the rule of law are overturned. artificial intelligence systems targeting people need very, very strong safeguards and these safeguards are currently not provided by the ai act. and here we need to change, we need to improve the ai act. and furthermore, public administrations should support low-income citizens rather than harassing them and giving millions to big-tech companies to build what virginia eubanks calls the digital poorhouse.
mr president, commissioner dalli, the family allowance case is, by its scale, an unprecedented racist scandal. thousands of families have been accused of fraud by the tax authorities. the migrant families, both african and black, were sued by the authorities, who demanded immediate repayment of the benefits that these families had legally received. many families could not bear to be branded as fraudsters by the state and committed suicide out of despair at the scale of their debt, other families broke up, and over 1000 children were placed in the custody of the state. the dutch government agreed to use racist algorithms, which indicated foreign-sounding names or dual nationality as an indicator of fraud. he had to admit that what was declared as a strict anti-fraud policy was nothing but institutional racism, discrimination and racial profiling. this is unacceptable. the fundamental values of the european union, human rights, the rights of our fellow citizens have been violated, and the cause is racism. what will the european union do? will it learn the lessons and keep its promise to fight institutional racism throughout its territory? what about the action plan we voted on? what has the dutch government done and what will the commission do to ensure that the rule of law applies to everyone, regardless of colour?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, while space might seem infinite, the usable space in earth’s proximity is not. in the past decades, we only had a few satellites in orbit, but now we add several hundred new satellites every year. this extensive use of outer space means more possibilities to benefit all humans on earth. but it also means that this increase of objects – be it functional satellites or useless trash – increases the threat of collision. we and not just europeans, but humanity as a whole needs to avoid this by all means. any collision can result in a cascading destruction known as the kessler syndrome. the implication of this is that all our space—based infrastructure would be destroyed, and the worldwide society would fall back to the technological status of the 1970s. all supply chains would be heavily interrupted because ships cannot navigate without gps and galileo. worldwide communication would be cut, and this would interrupt everything from football game transmissions to renewable energy production, and the fight against climate change would be unwinnable without data from copernicus. this is what’s at stake. and because the stakes are so high, i am thankful that finally, parliament and commission see the imminent need to build up a system for space traffic management. i would have liked to see this happen much earlier because we have to do so much more and we have to be so much faster. we need binding sustainability standards for all missions. these should be ‘leave no trace behind’, reduce the greenhouse gas emissions, no light pollution, and active debris removal. i have been pushing the commission as well as the member states. and to let you know, i will continue to do so to forge european space law, one common comprehensive european law to regulate all space activities in all fields necessary, so that europe extends its activities in space to bring more benefits to all europeans and all humans, but that’s also sustainable. and i’m advocating for an international space law because we have to treat outer space for what it is – not a junkyard, not a playground for billionaires, not the wild west, but a common heritage of all mankind.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in space, it's the wild west. what we don't have there is space traffic management, although that's obvious. the war in europe shows how important a strong satellite system is to global exchange. we have at the same time new industrial trends and a strong commercial use of space. this has led to a huge increase in management and sustainability challenges. the eu's space law, with a view to a uniform global regime, must now address these challenges. the question is: what measures does the commission intend to take and for how long? for many years, satellites and debris have been piling up in orbit, we've been sending high-technology into space, into space, which after it's done, it either burns up or stays there. but sustainability in the space sector is possible, see hubble telescope. that is why it is so important now that the commission presents very concrete measures on the subject of sustainability in the aerospace industry, on the subjects of repair and life extension through design plus research support. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives.
mr president, i want to use the time because there’s another imminent problem that we need to talk about when we’re talking about space debris, and that is, of course, anti—satellite missile testing. we know that last year the russians tested missiles in order to destroy their own satellites. we know that the chinese and the americans have done the same. and we know that this is very dangerous for peace in outer space, but also for the question of the debris, of space traffic management, as previous speakers have mentioned. therefore, i want to ask the commission what it plans to do about this situation. we have the proposal from vice president kamala harris for a memorandum of understanding on anti—satellite missile tests. we should now support this initiative and bring it to the international stage to make sure that we never again use anti—satellite missiles, in order to not destroy or threaten our space—based infrastructure. can the commission please comment on whether it wants to support the initiative and be a driving force in this question for the international stage?
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, fertilisers are essential to our food production. the high prices of fertilisers have also led to high food prices. at the same time, the fertiliser industry is one of the biggest emitters of co2 in europe, and one tonne of fertiliser requires more than a thousand cubic metres of natural gas. so it's time to look at alternatives. as far as i'm concerned, the key is in the fertilisation cycle, and it's far from closed. we are asking the fertilizer industry to make fertilizer, while still losing valuable nutrients to the environment. a major leak is the nutrients in human feces, but also the nutrients in animal manure or digestate cannot be used as a substitute for manure. i therefore call on the european commission to make a contribution to circular agriculture, because this is better for people, farmers, the climate and the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the next generation will turn their backs on our time. they'll either talk about the great transformation or the great failure. whether we like it or not, we're stuck in the middle of it with every thought and every action. and yes, we are running out of oil. it's the end of the fossil age, and it's the end of petrochemical fertilizers. we didn't want it to happen so fast, but with the crisis we're experiencing, it's going to happen even faster than we thought. seriously, what are we gonna do? the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the soil's fertility by natural means. the continuation of the succession of the fruit and of course not its suspension! what cannot be is that we now want to increase the amount of animal manure we put out in the field, to trade the fear of food shortages for the pollution of our drinking water. is this short-term thinking what's going to help us? no, ladies and gentlemen, we must encourage each other to think in new ways and to think long term. we have enough knowledge.
mr president, commissioner, the agricultural world needs us to act at european level to help it now more than ever. in addition to the immense distress of some producers, who are facing, who have faced the drought, we are in the midst of a major crisis. energy prices are soaring, and so are the prices of fertilisers. as some farmers are forced to limit their use of fertilisers and as manufacturers reduce or even stop their fertiliser production, there are dire consequences for europe's food security and food self-sufficiency. we are now seeing a real political will emerge to protect europeans on energy issues. we must show the same courage in the matter of fertilisers. european inaction in this area would be a grave mistake. i am therefore proposing that in the short term the commission should lift the anti-dumping duties on fertilisers produced in third countries, and that in the long term we should invest heavily in research to support innovative european manufacturing. you have already raised the tariffs on ammonia and urea to reduce the pressure on farmers. we must now go much further and change our ambition.
mr president, commissioner, it has not escaped anyone's notice that russia, by attacking ukraine, has seriously disrupted the supply of fertilisers to europe and caused their price to skyrocket. our objective must be clear: we must secure the quantities of fertilisers available, so that our farmers can survive this price increase, but also to guarantee the food supply within europe. seven months ago, commissioner, we already called on you to do so: in the resolution we voted last march, which was specifically concerned with food security, we, the european parliament, sounded the alarm by explaining to you that our dependence on exports of fertilisers - especially if they come from only a handful of producers - was excessive and that it was likely to put us in a difficult, if not dangerous, position. on that occasion, we asked you to consider the possibility of lifting anti-dumping duties on fertilisers produced in third countries and to support a transition to organic fertilisers and organic research and innovation within the union. but nothing was done. within seven months, the situation had worsened further, inflation was rampant, food insecurity prevailed. i would like to remind you once again that i believe it is urgent that you implement the concept of strategic autonomy for agriculture and food. it is time, it is high time to implement food and environmental planning based on a systemic vision. it has now become an imperative. it is clear that you have before you members who are very anxious and interested in your announcement of a european fertiliser strategy. but we must not confuse speed with haste, nor must we destabilize our enterprises or become more dependent on them. if anti-dumping duties are lifted, they must be temporary and be counterbalanced by financial aid, supplemented by the contribution on the excess profits. this is a major issue. the sector must benefit from gas supplies as a matter of priority. what we once asked for is still sadly relevant today.
the commission has already done so. what's all the panic? we have a food supply problem in the eu? not at all! 60% of the grain we produce goes to feed livestock, another 20% goes to fuel production. we have no problem with food safety in the european union. we are producing wonderful food by using agro-ecological and biological methods, without being dependent on artificial fertilizers and without the price increases of artificial fertilizers. organic farmers can continue to produce wonderfully, and we keep our soils fertile by enriching the humus - the humus, which, by the way, makes the soil have a high water storage capacity and, thanks to the water storage capacity, can still produce food even in the case of drought - yes, the climate-related drought that we have seen again this year all over europe. this is what food security looks like. let us take this opportunity to initiate a change in agricultural policy and not continue the destructive practices of the last few thousand years.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr waitz, keep dreaming, we need solutions now. the diversity of important nutrients is essential for good yields and high-quality food. a balanced diet is the lifeblood of our soils, of our crops, but also of us humans. putin's war has brought us more misery, more hunger, more inflation, higher prices. and i see a global food crisis coming, because fertilizer manufacturers are cutting production, they're shutting down completely. the market power of a few suppliers is slowly becoming a monopoly power. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the food we eat. for example, mineral nitrogen fertilisers cannot be replaced by other substances in the medium term, but alternatives are needed. nitrogen from manure and manure is decreasing because the eu commission wants to ban livestock farming. and the european commission must do everything it can to diversify, identify and secure fertiliser supplies for europe. farmers need practical offers rather than prohibitions. let us bring research and science to the table, because food security means prosperity and peace at the same time. let us not destroy our europe and our farmers by a misunderstood green deal. the commissioner, you are now advocating a european fertiliser strategy. healthy food needs high-quality, efficient fertilizer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. food, they tell children, is not to be played with. but the eu fertiliser regulation makes sufficient harvests a gamble. without fertilisers, our agriculture cannot produce food in sufficient quantity or quality. green politics is an attack on our livelihoods. the greens are opposed to the production and consumption of energy, the basis of our civilization. green people are against mobility, without which our economy cannot exist. now the greens are turning against food and farmers. food is the very means of life. the greens are said to be like watermelons: green on the outside and red on the inside. von der leyen, on the other hand, is like an avocado: black on the outside and green on the inside. there are even hass avocados among greens, by the way, the most sought after variety.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 12.23 p.m.)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, covid isn’t over. covid, corona is here in the room, it is outside, it’s in the european union. i am standing here as an mep, but i’m standing here for milena hermisson, a german, a young woman who is sitting in the dark. she can’t go outside. she’s sitting in the dark because she’s sick. or faraz fallahi, he’s sitting in the dark, separated from family because he can’t bear it anymore being around people. corona is not a flu. corona is not a grippe, as you are affecting. on monday, the beer tents at the octoberfest closed in munich – one of the hugest parties in in the world. people want to join because they are free. they want to join. it’s my freedom. but please be honest, the freedom of the few must be the freedom of me as well – otherwise, we are not free in the european union. the corona preventative measures proposed by the commission in april were necessary to prepare europe for new outbreaks this winter and to prevent the spread of the virus. we are talking about a virus. but there is a clear need to look beyond covid—19, learn from the hard—learned lessons the world has thrown at us over the past two years and develop long—term strategies – covid isn’t over – to become crisis-proof for future pandemics. my question, and the question of all the people with me/cfs, long covid, is what about the children when we are talking about education for all? how will the commission develop a coordinated strategy for the next generation of covid-19 vaccines across the whole value chain? how will the health emergency preparedness and response authority work? how will the commission ensure the member states successfully integrate covid-19? what is the strategy for the future? because covid isn’t over. today we call it covid, when the next day we call it omicron, delta, alpha, beta, omicron – it has a name. we are in a period of pandemic and we need answers from a social perspective, from the labour perspective and from the perspective of our citizens in the european union. thank you for your answers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, last plenary i got the feeling that a big part of this parliament is living on another planet. poverty is rising in europe all over and more and more people are unable to pay for their basic needs, like feeding their children or heating their homes. so, this should indeed send a huge alarm system to all of you and to our european leaders. but instead, you opted for business as usual. colleagues, we urgently need minimum incomes above the poverty line. we need to implement the minimum wages directive as soon as possible. we need to ban home evictions and energy cuts. let this international day for the eradication of poverty be a wakeup call to us all. let us fight poverty together. there is no time to lose.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the health crisis, the eu has been busy preventing the french from going outside their homes. with the energy crisis, you're now making us live hell inside our homes. the fight against energy poverty is really about wearing sweaters and collars in our homes. i'm ashamed of you. on this world day for the eradication of poverty, we are reduced to looking to the future in poverty and cold. this is a situation for which europe is entirely responsible. the ecological transition, the desire to bury nuclear energy in the long term, the organized dependence on foreign gas and the dogmatism around intermittent energy sources such as wind will have cost us dearly, very dearly. your green energy mix project is putting household budgets in the red. the stagnation of wages and inflation, which is melting the savings of the people of europe like snow in the sun, are leading us straight to general impoverishment. we've already pointed to your plan to eliminate homelessness by 2030. the problem is that despite what you say, the phenomenon is far from being solved. worse, it's getting worse at such a rate that the field players don't know where to turn. it is time to put an end to this disastrous policy. france must take the lead by lowering vat, investing in nuclear energy, exiting the european energy market and immediately stopping the policies the greens are calling for while the people suffer. the only way to end poverty is to take back our sovereignty.
thank you, mrs. chaibi, i remind you and all colleagues that it is not possible to exhibit material of any kind in the chamber.
madam president, according to eurostat data, 95.4 million people were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union in 2021. this means that almost one in five eu citizens struggle on a daily basis to make a living or to gain social prestige. however, the economic disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic and the war in russia and ukraine on the eu's borders further exacerbate this situation, and it is the most vulnerable groups, families, that are being hit first. for example, the roma in europe, whom i represent. in the light of all this, i would suggest to the european commission and the member states that it is worth taking some of the good practices of hungary in this difficult situation. thanks to them, we have been able to reduce the number of hungarians living in severe material deprivation from 27% to 8% in the last ten years. among roma, the same number fell from 78% to 31%. with the family home-building subsidies, with the mandatory preschool education for children from the age of three, we have broken the vicious circle of poverty, and very, very importantly, we want to extend these tax breaks to parents, to young people under 25, to mothers with many children, and soon to mothers under 30. please consider these actions, because they greatly alleviate the plight of the poor.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a man who is full has many problems. hungry people only have one thing. we must keep this in mind as well-off people and politicians. consider, for example, the jeans that we wear. whether it's designer jeans or cheap jeans, the seamstress in bangladesh or anywhere else always gets the same inhuman hourly wage. this is and remains a scandal. we can still pump so much money into poor countries. if money gets into a few hands and stays there, then a few become richer and many become poorer. yesterday was world food day. according to the world hunger index, 828 million people suffer from chronic hunger alone. leave no one behind the guiding principle of the 2030 agenda is therefore, in my view, pure hypocrisy if, for example, we close farmland in agricultural areas such as those in central europe instead of promoting sustainable management. let's wake up now! let us use our potential in business, research, politics, society for good education, for better health for the poor people in europe and the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. today is the international day for the eradication of poverty. it's a very important day for me, because i was poor myself as a child. and my homeland, the ruhr, is the poorhouse of germany. one in five is poor, and 40 percent of the children receive hartz iv. and, commissioner schmit, you have addressed many problems correctly. more and more people in employment are poor, more and more pensioners. more and more people cannot afford their own housing. they can't afford to heat, and they don't have money for electricity. even food is running out. the panels in germany were visited by 1.1 million people in 2020, and now there are two million people. two million people who depend on the tablets in this supposedly rich country of germany! but now you've given reasons. you've named the corona crisis as the cause, and i think that's wrong. it was not the virus that drove people into poverty, but the policy decisions, the completely overblown coronavirus measures. and you named the ukraine war as the cause. but is it the war? no, it is the sanctions that are driving people into poverty right now - driving people in europe into poverty. and it doesn't help the ukrainians if the people in europe are poor. it doesn't hurt the russians, because they're getting paid stupid and stupid. if you want to fight poverty, you have to go to the root. and the roots are the ecb's zero-interest policy, unchecked mass immigration and the green deal - climate legislation.
mr president, dear colleagues, daphne caruana galizia was an anti—corruption fighter. she dedicated her work to uncovering corruption, and she was murdered for it by greedy politicians and businessmen that wanted to keep stealing public funds without being exposed. this must never happen again. it’s our duty – it’s the duty of the european union – not only to protect journalists, but also to make sure that the rule of law is strong everywhere in our union. i spoke to daphne’s sons just earlier today. they told me that there still hasn’t been a single corruption prosecution in malta since the murder of their mother. the mastermind behind the assassination is still at large and some of the policies that enabled the corruption in malta are still there. you can still buy a passport. the cooperation with the european prosecutor is still not ideal. but i want to say one sentence to you, manfred weber. you spoke out very strongly for the rule of law in the fight against corruption. we need to do that wherever it happens, not only when it’s a government from the s&d or from the liberals. we only win this fight when we stand together as democrats.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. today is the anniversary of daphne's murder. this terrible murder was an attack on daphne, but above all an attack on the freedom of the press in europe. with an attack on the freedom of the press, it was also an attack on democracy, because freedom of the press is the air that democracy needs to breathe. but i have to be honest at the end of this debate, i'm shocked. i am shocked, on the one hand, by those who still defend the backbenchers and refuse to debate here for political reasons, and on the other hand, by those who have the intellectual audacity to speak in this debate of double standards, that the problems of the rule of law in malta are not being discussed and that only poland and hungary are always being discussed. the audacity of this debate, in which these issues are being discussed, to say that we are not doing this is shocking. this parliament - and you may not like it - will always look the other way when it comes to defending the rule of law when democracy is under attack, and we will also look the other way when press freedom is restricted and journalists are made to fear. that is our task in this parliament.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking you again for this debate. we owed it to daphne caruana galizia. first of all, i am pleased that we can continue our dialogue on the situation of the rule of law in the various member states. and as you know, i am at the disposal of your parliament, whether in plenary, in committee or in any other format, to examine this situation in the 27 member states. with regard to the situation in malta in particular, i would like to reiterate that we appreciate the willingness of the maltese authorities to have a dialogue with the commission on the reforms to be carried out. however, i would like to stress the importance of completing and implementing all the necessary reforms in the areas of the independence and efficiency of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and media freedom. i would like to reiterate the commission's commitment to the protection of journalists and to media freedom and pluralism. we have proposed many measures in this regard over the last two years and we will continue to support the work of parliament and the council to ensure that these initiatives are adopted as soon as possible. you have mentioned several times the situation with the standard procedures, the slapp. we must make progress in the legislative framework of the proposal for a directive on this subject, alongside - as i said earlier - the recommendation which is already in force. but we must also ensure that all these reforms are implemented to honour the memory of daphne caruana galizia. and i want to reiterate that it is essential, five years after the events, that the ongoing criminal investigation be successfully and fully completed, and in particular that those who ordered this murder be held accountable before justice. justice is essential for daphne caruana galizia, for her family, for maltese society and for the defence of the values at the heart of the european union. i know that this is also the fight of the european parliament. we will have the opportunity to review again both the progress of reforms and the outcome of the judicial proceedings.
i have received, pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure, two motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on frontex's responsibility for violations of fundamental rights at the eu's external borders in the light of the olaf report (2022/2895 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, frontex fulfils a critically important task. its mission is to help member states protect the common european external borders, and to uphold fundamental rights in doing so. in particular, in the current difficult situation, with a high number of irregular migrants coming through the western balkan routes, we see how essential frontex is, or when we read a report that on14 october, hellenic police and frontex rescued 92 naked migrants in the area of evros. right now, frontex is undertaking briefings with the people concerned to establish the facts. this shows once more how important it is for frontex to be present at our external borders. to achieve its objective, frontex must be a robust and well-functioning agency, with the right governance and control systems in place, and it must have the right processes and staff at its disposal to uphold fundamental rights. my services have consistently worked together with the agency on this objective. this work started in the summer of 2020, when the first media reports on possible pushbacks in the mediterranean appeared. the commission has been instrumental in pushing forward the work of the fundamental rights working group of the frontex management board. this work resulted in recommendations to the management board and frontex in february 2021, which were endorsed by the management board in march 2021. since then, the commission representatives on the management board have worked closely with the board in order to implement the board’s conclusions, as well as the recommendations of the european parliament’s frontex scrutiny working group. this has led to fundamental reforms in the agency structure and internal processes. the olaf report in february this year confirmed many findings of the board’s working group. however, in addition, it identified personal misbehaviour and mismanagement of three members of the management staff of the agency, including its then executive director. this report was addressed to the management board of frontex, as the appointing authority of the staff members in question, in line with the rules on olaf investigations. my services cooperated closely with the board from the transmission of the report to the management board in february until the conclusion of the follow—up in june this year. as a result, the executive director of the agency resigned at the end of april from his function, as you know. also, the second person concerned left agency in the meantime. the third person, who had fully cooperated with olaf’s investigation, was assigned to a different function in the agency at his own request. i am aware that reading the report will have shocked many of you, just as it shocked me. but i am convinced that the management board of frontex has assumed its responsibility fully and in a very efficient way. this has allowed the agency to continue to operate smoothly while working hard on remedying the remaining shortcomings identified by its control bodies, the board and the frontex scrutiny working group. right now, we are in the process of recruiting the new executive director for frontex, and i hope that this this new executive director will be appointed before the end of this year.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear commissioner, the timing of this debate was a bit spontaneous – i will try to make it work. but first of all, thanks a lot to olaf for the very thorough work they have done in preparing this report. i think it goes without saying that the behaviour of the three persons concerned, as it is described in the olaf report, is very concerning, and that they have seriously hurt the image of the agency. we need frontex as an agency beyond any doubt because of its crucial role in the management of our external borders. i also believe that this report and the resignation of the executive director is in a way a very good moment for a fresh start, because the report also shows that the agency is full of brave men and women with integrity that dare to speak out with olaf and help olaf reach its conclusions. we need to build on all those men and women that are currently still active at frontex. we had a very interesting meeting with the authors of the report in the joint cont and libe meeting. they indicated that they did not investigate any allegations of pushbacks or fundamental rights violation and that it goes without saying any such allegations need to be investigated wherever and whenever they appear, but they were not part of the scope of this investigation. one of the other things that i read in the report, if you read between the lines, is that frontex really also needs guidance from the european commission about the difficult legal framework in which maritime surveillance takes place, about the difficult position that frontex is in, about their role in working with, but also for, member states. we need the new executive director to really make a change. we need more guidance from the commission and we need to work with the frontex scrutiny working group in this house to help that. one last thing that i want to say as well – and this is to echo what the commissioner said – we need to address the despicable behaviour of the turkish authorities with the strongest and most convinced way, because the recent scandals again show in what kind of geopolitical circumstances the greek authorities, but also frontex, need to operate and it is hardly achievable.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not frontex has been criticised for years. mismanagement, lack of transparency, hidden knowledge of human rights violations at the external borders, possibly even involvement in pushbacks. leggeri was proud of his new equipment. however, the statutory staff was not recruited. what's the point? he was clearly of the opinion that border management was not possible without respecting fundamental rights. the list of irregularities is long and some of them have been documented, not since the olaf report. yet, these wrongs were repeatedly denied, ignorance was feigned, and outright lies were uttered. the olaf report is ruthless in exposing all this, and confirms, incidentally, that frontex knew about pushbacks, was involved in them, and deliberately and purposefully prevented the recording of such acts. the former executive director, mr leggeri, was supported by member states on the management board, by conservative sections of the commission, but also by members here in the house. but his resignation now is not a free pass. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it needs new structures, trust needs to be completely rebuilt. it also requires a new approach to transparency. the fact that the olaf report was only made available to a limited extent here in the house and was not published by an official body but by a news magazine is exemplary. the scale of the problems must be clearly recognised and new structures must be created. this is necessary precisely because frontex is such an important agency. but the changes are not yet clearly visible. it's time!
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already done so. in fact, frontex has an important task. the protection of europe's borders is an important task. as a european authority, frontex must of course protect fundamental rights. and the question we have to ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, is why this is happening. sometimes i get the impression when the eu interior ministers talk about frontex having a robust mandate that some people feel validated by the way frontex is operating. it has now come out in this olaf report that there has been personal misconduct by three people. okay, the olaf report on frontex is indeed shocking, and frontex has to reposition itself now. but i doubt that it is a kind of individual case, but it is a system that we have to change, ladies and gentlemen. i believe that a new executive director must ensure that frontex is put on a new footing so that this important task of border protection can be effectively carried out in compliance with human rights, ladies and gentlemen, with transparent rules, and so that frontex sees itself as a support for the member states, but - i say this very clearly - also as a body that monitors the member states in their task of protecting the borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. you said you were shocked when you read the olaf report, and i have heard that a lot lately. you're shocked when you read this report. to be honest, i'm a little surprised by this. so, there's no new stuff in there. there's stuff that we've been discussing here for years. things that are claimed to be sometimes fake news, sometimes turkish propaganda, sometimes some political things that others invent. so i think that being shocked by this olaf report must actually cause us to be shocked by ourselves. we've known that for years. we knew that and we also knew that we could actually now sit down together and re-establish frontex. but we didn't. on the contrary, yesterday i was given documents from frontex again, which clearly state that frontex is also aware of other human rights violations. it is simply not happening, it is not happening, and i find it really degrading - also for this house - that we are leaving behind at the external borders not only people, screaming women and children and men on boats that are not seaworthy, but we are leaving behind the rule of law, we are leaving behind what europe should really stand for, all our values and what we have learned from history. and i think it's actually important that we maybe just pull ourselves together more, rather than telling people that we have a refugee crisis at the external borders, because we've actually had a really substantial rule of law crisis for years. a substantial crisis of the rule of law, which i cannot go into in this speech. but i hope that in the next few weeks, we can resolve this or at least somehow take a step in the right direction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not ngos, lawyers, victims of pushbacks have been waiting for months to finally get this report on the table. it is proof that frontex is aware of systematic human rights violations at the external borders, complicit in the cover-up of illegal pushbacks, which often result in the death of asylum seekers. even the air surveillance was suspended. the depth of moral decay is evidenced by the communication channels of former frontex chief leggeri and his team, who gave instructions to look the other way so as not to witness pushbacks. even the frontex fundamental rights officer was deliberately withheld information and we, the parliament, were lied to and made fools of constantly and continuously. it's not about the misdeeds of individuals, it's about this agency playing god to put itself above any law. this frontex system must be stopped! not a single penny of taxpayer money can be spent on an agency that doesn't value the lives of asylum seekers. we need an agency that respects the rule of law and an agency that actually respects human rights. because border security without human rights is despotism.
mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, what happened since the fswg had concluded the report on the allegations? the agency had taken various actions to improve, to get better, to live up to the revised mandate and the task. three new deds had taken up their responsibility, a new fro has taken up his duty. accompanied by now 46 fundamental rights monitors, more than first foreseen. the fundamental rights strategies implemented, the fro is an integral part of the agency’s work, the steer mechanism is revised. the cooperation with the consultative forum had been reinstated with the quality it has had before the former ed. does the olaf report put things mentioned above in question? no, because mismanagement and misbehaviour can be assigned to three persons, and they had to face the consequences. can the agency, the management board, the european parliament and the commission step up the efforts ? yes they can, because times have not gotten easier. the geopolitical situation has tightened and frontex, even while under serious constraints, had fully delivered what we had expected of them, support the member states facing russia or belorussia, supporting ukraine refugees and providing shelter and care. so, colleagues, whether we like it or not, supporting the agency and strengthening it is paramount in these turbulent times. the agency has done its homework. let’s do ours and support them.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not we need zero-emission shipping by 2050 at the latest. since 1990, ship emissions have increased by 36%. they're bad for the climate and bad for our health. so now is the time to act. it is good that the eu commission is moving forward with the law on marine fuels and formulating climate targets for shipping. it is good that, under pressure from us greens, the committee on industry and also the environment, the emission reduction targets in the parliament's report have been tightened up. it's also good that we're putting in expansion targets for renewable fuels. this makes climate-damaging lng less attractive, and renewable alternatives much more attractive. nevertheless, the report has too many loopholes. the committee on industry and the environment has shown in its deliberations that more is possible and necessary. i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the green group and many other members. listen to the part of the industry that wants us to do more and to sharpen the goals.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, i wonder if the meps should now also get to triple the amount of speaking time, as she also got it. so maybe in this house we should also then give it to the meps. herr präsident, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen! derzeit verursacht der verkehr knapp ein drittel der treibhausgasemissionen in europa. und das muss und das wird sich ändern. schon bald wird das reisen mit dem elektroauto von schweden bis bulgarien problemlos möglich sein. das laden von e-autos wird einfacher sein als das tanken von benzin. und statt abofallen und app-chaos wird es überall unkompliziert mit kartenzahlung gehen. meine damen und herren, geben sie den bürgerinnen und bürgern europas heute dieses versprechen. ich appelliere an sie: konzentrieren wir uns auf das pferd, auf das die autoindustrie setzt – das elektroauto. grünen wasserstoff braucht thyssenkrupp für co2-neutralen stahl, autos fahren mit batterie, und lng ist knapp in europa. lassen sie uns keinen champagner in den tank kippen. schalten wir jetzt auf turbo in der e—mobilität und sichern damit arbeitsplätze, innovation und zukunft in europa.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. maritime shipping has so far been exempted from all climate protection measures. the regulation on sustainable marine fuels would have - i say consciously - given us the chance to put a difficult area to decarbonise, which according to all the studies and scenarios available will even grow in the next decades, on the path to climate neutrality. however, the commission proposal itself fell short of the 2050 target, with fuels in 2050 still having to have 25% of the emission intensity of today's fuels. this is absurd, because on the other hand the commission has written a draft for the next meeting of the international maritime organization imo for climate neutrality 2050. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the environment and industry committee of this parliament has corrected this fundamental shortcoming and has also made many well-founded technical proposals on how shipping can become climate neutral faster, how sustainable fossil-free fuels can be promoted and how emissions in ports can be reduced. but unfortunately, after the rather unusual negotiations, we now have a text before us in the plenary which not only misses the higher objectives but also introduces many, many exceptions for icebreakers, for trips to peripheral areas, for companies with few ships and so on. in addition to us greens, many other colleagues, such as catherine chabaud, have therefore proposed amendments to the way in which we can put shipping on the path towards climate neutrality. and i ask you to accept these amendments.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. gas and oil are old news. they promote war, climate crisis, air pollution. each of these points is reason enough to move away from the combustion engine and towards alternative propulsion to be clean and mobile without limits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the charging infrastructure is in place. the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the market for electric vehicles. user-friendly payment must become standard, following the motto: "charging as easy as refuelling". and more than that, we need change not just on the streets. only a little over half of europe's railways are electrified today, and the railway can do even more. 100% green electricity and 100% electricity europe-wide. two obstacles to clean infrastructure still need to be corrected by wednesday. firstly, smaller airports outside the ten-t corridors have a role to play. business and private jet owners, in particular, have enough in their pockets to pay their fair share, and they need to electrify their infrastructure as well. we must not let the rich be relieved of their responsibilities. the second obstacle is the expansion of lng for trucks and for maritime transport. clean mobility is different. let's turn the tables: lng should be available not where there is demand, but only where there is no alternative. the drive reversal goes hand in hand with the traffic reversal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the course of the green deal, the climate act and the fit for 55 package, brussels now wants to determine which fuels should be allowed for the free movement of persons in the future. the latest eco-socialist climate egg to be laid in brussels is the eu-wide ban on combustion engines. it's supposed to be bagged by the end of october. and because there is still no adequate infrastructure, a regulation to regulate this is now being postponed. but even germany, the unfortunate world champion of green idiocy, is failing. the annual need for additional charging stations is a miserable failure. the netherlands and germany account for almost 60% of all charging points in the eu. the eu's target of one million charging points by 2025 is therefore already a joke. moreover, any additional electricity demand will lead to an increased need for fossil fuels for electricity production. this is not the only reason why zero-emission mobility is a green lie. but the citizen should not own a car any more, he should ride a bicycle or use public transport. i therefore categorically reject the abolition of the social market economy through political prohibitions and state subsidies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the decarbonisation of the transport sector is certainly one of the most exciting tasks we face at the moment, because it is necessary if we are to achieve the climate targets. but at the same time, it is a really difficult task, because we have to balance on the one hand the competitiveness of our economy, the prices that consumers have to pay, and at the same time the ambitious climate targets that we want to achieve. i think that on the whole we have a good compromise package on the table which we support. i would like to make two comments at this point. one is: we're betting very, very heavily on electrification. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted. but electricity will also play a major role in the maritime sector, for example in the provision of electricity to ships in ports. but we have networks that are not designed for that. in all of europe we do not have these networks designed for this. i firmly believe that one of the most difficult challenges is not to build charging stations, but to align the electricity grids so that these electricity capacities are actually available. the second is that we do not yet know what the best solution will be for the maritime sector. and we'll get different best solutions depending on the use situation, depending on the size of the vessel, depending on the application, depending on the region. i think we have to be careful to be open to technology in this story. lng will play an important role, but of course hydrogen and other alternative fuels will also play a role. and for that, we probably need to set even more ambitious goals.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i think it has once again become clear that it is important to support this dossier, partly because we need the infrastructure to solve this so-called chicken-and-egg problem. i think we've done that in electric mobility. this is also reflected in the boom in various technologies and in vehicle sales. but we have to do the same with hydrogen technology. we are now at a point where industry is reluctant to invest because it wants to invest but does not yet see the infrastructure, and infrastructure managers are not taking action for the same reasons. i believe that this ambitious approach, which is to move the targets for hydrogen technology forward by three years from the commission's proposal and also to reduce the gaps between the different infrastructures, will give a great incentive to move towards the construction of a redundant system in the next few years. why do i think we need both systems - both electrification and infrastructure? firstly, because it has been mentioned: we do not have the grid everywhere that can easily electrify everything. wherever we can eventually balance the grid, i think we need to make good use of hydrogen. and that, taken together, would actually be the mix that will help us in the future in the european union to decarbonize our mobility, our mobility sector. the fact that we need enough electrification and energy is completely undeniable. that's why we can't do it alone. we will also have to import from other parts of the world. but we have to do that with repowereu and i think we will be able to do that again . i would ask you to support my amendments.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 19 october 2022. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. the proposed legislation on increasing the use of renewable and low-carbon fuels in maritime transport aims, in addition to promoting sustainable fuels in shipping, to introduce specific arrangements for ships arriving in or departing from eu ports. it is vital to gradually increase the share of these fuels in all transport sectors, to respect technological neutrality and to ensure the necessary incentives for the financing of research and development in these sectors. in order to preserve the competitiveness of european shipping, a global approach is being pursued to gradually reduce greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport. in the european parliament we have reached a balanced compromise text, ambitious and realistic, where we place particular emphasis on the environmental principle 'polluter pays', which is the cornerstone of eu environmental law. in this area, specific contractual obligations are provided for between shipowners and commercial service providers. at the same time, the text incorporates satisfactorily the obligation of fuel suppliers to supply fuel meeting the required community specifications to ports in eu member states and provides the right basis for the opening of negotiations on the final legislation.
the debate on the report by alicia homs ginel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (com (2022) 0241 - c9-0199/2022 - 2022/0165 (nle)) (a9-0243/2022) will continue.
i regret to inform you that we cannot have ‘catch the eye’ in this debate. we are just starting this debate and, afterwards, we still have another topic on our agenda with 27 one-minute speeches.
member of the commission. – mr president, first let me thank the rapporteur, ms alicia homs ginel, and the shadow rapporteurs for delivering this important report. we very much welcome the broad support expressed for the commission proposal on the updated guidelines for the employment policies of member states. against the background of the current crisis and the economic uncertainty ahead of us, let me underline the importance of adequate labour market skills and social policies for navigating the crisis and accompanying the transitions while preserving jobs and ensuring social protection. this year, we targeted the narrative of the employment guidelines for the post—covid-19 environment and the war in ukraine. but we also focused on the implementation of the european pillar of social rights and the new eu 2030 headline targets on employment, skills and poverty reduction. additionally, we brought in new elements related to fairness in the green transition to make sure that it will be a just transition. and we added policy elements in the context of russia’s war of aggression against ukraine, including increasing energy costs. we see that all these new elements were also very much welcomed by parliament. we acknowledge and appreciate the contribution provided by parliament’s report. we agree on the further integration of the sustainable development goals into the european semester. and we also agreed that in order to effectively eradicate risks at work, both mental and physical health should be protected. you will debate the important topic of mental health in this plenary session. we cannot but agree with a strong focus on the involvement of social partners also and especially during times of crisis, notably to address the impact of the increasing cost of living. we agree that new forms of work should be compliant with labour law and social protection. dear president, honourable members, the treaty-based employment guidelines are of key importance for economic and social governance. they provide detailed guidance for the member states when drafting their employment skills and social policies. they ensure that they make steady progress towards their national targets in terms of employment, skills and poverty reduction. set with the european pillar of social rights action plan. the employment guidelines are the core of the european semester, defining its social dimension. promoting coordinated employment and social policies across the eu has to go hand-in-hand with economic and fiscal policies. we have to address job preservation, especially in those sectors, industrial sectors mainly, that are most affected by soaring energy prices. it is also important to tackle labour market shortages through inclusive employment policies that promote skilling, reskilling and upskilling. we have to target 9 million young people called neets for whom we should open job opportunities and good education if needed. a balanced coordination of economic and social policies is necessary to ensure upward social and economic convergence and to enhance the resilience of the eu, in particular in times of crisis. such coordination has to be at the heart of the semester process. the updated employment guidelines will provide further steering on how to modernise labour market institutions, education and training, social protection and health systems. we want to make them more effective, more inclusive and fairer. the guidelines will also help member states address emerging social challenges, including increasing energy poverty, in a context of a dramatic rise in energy prices. they also provide a framework to guide wage—setting in the currently high inflation context, in full respect of national practices and of the role of social partners, with the aim to preserve purchasing power and reflect the current socio—economic conditions. the guidelines foster the acquisition of skills and competences throughout people’s lives, which is necessary to respond to current and future labour market needs and ensure a successful twin transition. the upcoming european year of skills will further reinforce efforts towards these goals. finally, we should not forget the importance of protecting the most vulnerable, notably women, young people and children, who are among the most affected in the current cost of living crisis, after already being hit by the covid-19 crisis. very importantly, this also refers to ukrainian people that had to leave their country following russia’s criminal war of aggression against their country. in that regard, the guidelines reiterate that member states should offer them an adequate level of protection through adequate job opportunities and social services, in line with the temporary protection directive. we welcome and appreciate that parliament shared the approach chosen by the commission. we are on the same page when it comes to providing the right solutions to all citizens in a spirit of social justice.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thank you for your cooperation. it was a real hard work on your part, and you have created a work that is now on the table, which we have to debate. i told you at the negotiations that there were a lot of things that didn't belong in a report like this. it is a guide, a guide to employment policy. for example, you have put things in there that, as a social politician and as the federal chairman of the family party of germany, naturally make my heart leap when i read that with the children, with the 20 million you mentioned - no question. but, honestly, is that part of the report? it is a pity that this important subject is only a side issue in such a guide to employment policy. i can tell you quite frankly that this is a matter of my heart, and it certainly does not belong there. it is a matter of a specific report which does justice to this, and it is precisely in our time - the commissioner has spoken about this - that this is the case, in the light of the pandemic and the war, which is causing so much suffering to families and children throughout europe. we are allowed to have clever ideas, and therefore we must not waste them on such reports. that is the problem we have in common. i have no objection to you, mrs homs ginel, but it is the custom in this parliament now to write reports and try to include everything that does not belong there, whether it is climate change, climate protection or the green deal. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give a ruling on the interpretation of the provisions of the treaty on european union. that is why the reports are being misused. i would appeal to the conference of presidents to take action here and to clarify what reports are for. the individual subjects covered are important, they are good and too bad to be mentioned or included as a supplement in a report. that is why we have a problem with the epp, here to wrestle for approval. we are trying, i would at least appeal, to reject 42 and 14/2, so that we can... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the german government has inflicted record energy prices on the germans and now wants to compensate them with 200 billion euros. it's absurd, but not unjust. but italy's still-prime minister and goldman sachs banker mario draghi immediately accuses germany of violating competition law and the single market. this is bullshit. draghi likes to make the germans - and i might add the northern europeans - pay for all the financial and government crises. nevertheless, chancellor olaf scholz immediately promised draghi, who francesco cossiga once called a miserable financial slave, more money for italy and the eu, although germany is still the main funder of the 750 billion euro eu corona fund. the germans have the lowest incomes and the lowest private wealth in the euro area. only your government suffers from helper syndrome. she shows herself to be rich and generous, because for years she has been pulling money out of the pockets of the germans with both hands.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the recession and high energy prices are frightening many europeans. more and more people are afraid of winter. it is therefore good that member states use their resources to introduce, for example, gas price caps. the problem is not that member states act. the problem is that there is no action at european level. with more european solidarity, we will get through this winter better. this also means that we need a european cap on gas prices and mandatory energy savings for all member states now. we greens were the first in this house to advocate a tax on the profits of energy companies. we are pleased that the commission has now started to collect surpluses. we must now also ensure that the recovery of surpluses is well implemented at national level. the member states should not take 33% but at least 50% of the profits of oil companies. we must close loopholes so that profits do not simply migrate to other states and corporations can be left penniless. we need an agreement with switzerland so that profit shifting will no longer take place. the finance ministers must now do something about it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. while putin is losing militarily, he hopes to win with the change of seasons. it is based on cold temperatures, on falling temperatures and thus on falling solidarity in the eu. even if we have no influence on the temperature, we have influence on the cohesion of the eu. with russia's energy blackmail, millions of people don't know how to pay their bills. small and medium-sized companies have to lay off their employees, but energy companies make billions in profits. in the face of this enormous challenge, it is imperative to impose a temporary special tax on take-away items, to use the proceeds to support these most vulnerable groups. but basically we have to make ourselves completely independent of energy from autocratic states. only this self-emancipation will guarantee the necessary protection against autocrats and their attempts at blackmail. this winter will test all of us in terms of solidarity and social cohesion. but i am confident that we here in the eu will pass this test together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many have said it here: this energy crisis threatens the very existence of millions of europeans, and ordinary workers cannot afford such price increases. the poorest are the worst affected. 30% in europe cannot build up any reserves. that's why the first answer is: raise wages, lower prices and solidarity with the strikers here in europe. the tax on capital gains has already been mentioned to finance this. but what really worries me is the exploding energy prices that affect millions of jobs in energy-intensive industries. if we do not act more quickly and if we simply let this go on, it will break the industrial backbone of europe. and what is the consequence of this? not just unemployed and impoverished regions, but also more global dependence and less strategic autonomy. that is why europe must act more quickly now and can no longer rely on the problem being solved. if you want a bright future, act now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. energy, food are the soil of social peace and it is fragile everywhere. people are extremely uncertain. they worry about rising energy prices, food prices, and that the inflationary spiral is continuing. this is a situation that putin is creating to create fear and undermine cohesion. and it is all the more important that we do not allow this, that we not only talk, but act together, quickly with a common plan to reduce prices, to fight inflation. we are increasing energy production in europe, and that is why the german decision to keep nuclear power stations running is important. we buy more together from trusted partners. we are expanding renewable energy faster and developing future energy. we are saving energy, we are fighting inflation through structural measures. we're relieving citizens and businesses until all measures are in place - from electricity and gas price curbs to cutting red tape. it's not a push-button thing, but we're getting there. and now we must persevere, confidently maintain our unity. this is proof of our democracy towards the aggressor putin and of our unbreakable solidarity with ukraine.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. oil prices have doubled since the beginning of 2021, coal prices have tripled, and gas prices have more than quintupled. according to the international monetary fund, prices will continue to rise sharply until at least 2026. one main reason is the doubling of the price of carbon credits and the eu's climate policy in general. energy companies and the eu itself benefit from price increases. you want to deduct some of the company profits, so far right. but to whose benefit? the eu itself, not the consumers, is pushing for even more ambitious climate targets. the eu's share of global co2 emissions alone is around 8%. no other region of the world, not even the united states, shares your climate goals. our impact on the world's climate is zero. you know what? i'm not gonna... the aim is not to save the world but to impoverish the masses and to set europe back in civilisation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the colleague rightly criticised the fact that this cannot be a household like any other, that it must be remembered. if we look at section 7, a quick glance at it will give us the idea that it could be a household like any other. but i would remind you that at the very beginning of this procedure we in the committee on budgets cut an amount from the draft budget of our bureau, which was 33 million, the largest ever. so we know very well in this house that we have a lot to do and that in these difficult times parliament and all the institutions must also take the lead. but i also think that on february 24th, hardly anyone would have objected if we had said, we need to build resilience here, we need to be defensive against hybrid warfare, we need to make cybersecurity a real priority. ladies and gentlemen, we really must. that is the only real focus we are putting on staff in this budget: cybersecurity. i am glad that we are united across the political groups and that we will make this happen. i would also like to say that i am grateful for the constructive atmosphere - also in the council presidency - because i know that we are all in the same boat here. we already have an instrument in cert-eu which coordinates, which can lead the way and which we can strengthen. i am very confident that together as a parliament - if there is a constructive will - we will find a way in the negotiations here to find a good way for all to benefit all the institutions. but i say that too. it is not an option to not act here and let the risks be risks. we must be prepared to defend ourselves. we need to build our resilience, my friends. the other institutions in particular are counting on us. of course, it is our role as a parliament to strengthen the other institutions as well. i call the court of justice the court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should not allow ourselves to be divided here either, and we should be clear about this: if we are talking about 800 billion euros, then a few posts at this point are not the wrong investment. there's enough to control, especially with this amount. i think that we should not, of course, take part in these jealousy-mongering between institutions, as we have done in previous years. the situation is too serious for that. we have many important tasks to perform, and i see my task in my area as being to ensure that the broad lines described by mr ştefănuţă do not become secondary and that we do not exhaust ourselves in piecemeal discussions between the institutions, but that we find solutions together which are really appropriate to the budgetary situation, and i ask all those involved to do the same. we are supposed to be frugal, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why i am giving the house 57 seconds as a sign that we can hopefully achieve good results in the negotiations.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let 's face it . the 2023 budget is basically already a waste of money before it is adopted. the draft resolution does, of course, list in paragraph 2 dozens or many problems, but the solutions do not correspond to these problems at all. instead of providing relief to the eu eu citizens , the draft acts as a continuation of the current eu's backward policy. almost all countries in the eu are facing explosive inflation, which is destroying our industries and plunging so many people into poverty, misery and, in some cases, even suicide. we are faced with energy costs that many citizens can no longer afford. the day before yesterday, one of my sons told me that he now has to spend well over half his teacher's salary on housing. this is absurd! also, many food prices have doubled. but what about wages? unless you happen to work for an eu agency, the salaries will remain the same for the time being. so how does the eu help our desperate citizens? does it end the energy crisis? does it end the war? does it stop the climate change madness? no, i'm afraid not the present draft budget provides ukraine, the green deal policy and a lot of other nonsense with an endless flow of money. apparently, we find it more important to sanction russia to our detriment and to fund a deadly war in ukraine than to make sure that our hard-working citizens and our families can pay their electricity bills and their food. just for the statistics: the word gender is mentioned 98 times, ukraine 92 times, climate 74 times. the word family, the backbone of the union, is not mentioned once. to make matters worse, the bill promotes militarism and russophobia. the former pacifist parties of the left, including those in this house, reject diplomacy, peace and neutrality and are degrading our union into a military union. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very useful and has been very helpful in the debate on the future of the european union. but we're setting the wrong priorities. we are not acting for the people, but we are increasingly aware of foreign interests. this can't be. this has to stop!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have a difficult annual budget here. we see the energy crisis, we see inflation, and we know that our options in the multiannual financial framework are limited. that is why there are three priorities in this budget too. firstly, we must do everything we can to combat inflation, we must support the citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it would be a mistake not to prepare for the future in a crisis. we have just heard a great speech by the afd, the id group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. we just heard that. that's why i want to talk about it here. because we're not doing enough. what specifically did the id group ask for? i can tell you this: to cut all the funds for the european public prosecutor's office without any justification. the european public prosecutor's office has identified €5.7 billion in damage to the eu budget and to member states' budgets in the first seven months of its operation alone. 576 investigations in just seven months. you don't want that, you want to cut it out, cross it out. they are not interested in the taxpayers' money. they're not interested in helping the citizens. you're still playing your games. we can see that too. you're the one making these requests. this is ridiculous. just leave it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to say to my colleague from the afd, who did not have enough time to listen to me for a few more minutes, that it is not the eu that is financing the war here. and it is not the eu that is driving up the energy prices that are currently depriving our citizens of sleep. it is vladimir putin who, with his criminal war of aggression against ukraine, has triggered this whole crisis. and i would like to say this to my colleague who is a member of a party whose youth organization has joined forces with the youth organization of putin's party in 2016. and to come here and make such speeches, that's just insolence! putin's brutal attack is not just an attack on the territorial integrity of ukraine, but an attack on our democratic and free way of life and on a rules-based global order. it shows that democracies are peaceful and autocracies start wars. and that is why it is so important that we express here our maximum solidarity with ukraine, including with this budget, and of course also support those countries inside and outside europe which are particularly suffering from the consequences. and that is why we are also financing the amif programme for countries which take in refugees with this budget, and we have also increased this, but of course also funds for humanitarian aid. but the crimes in ukraine must not make us forget that the greatest crisis on our planet is unstoppable, and that is the climate and biodiversity crisis. the floods in pakistan, but also the drought in europe, have shown the serious impact that this crisis is already having on us as humans, how quickly whole systems are collapsing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. and that's why it's good that we're raising funds here for the clean energy transition, for the circular economy, for climate change mitigation, and also for the life programme and biodiversity. because when it comes to conserving biodiversity, it's not about the survival of one beautiful butterfly. it is about preserving the economic foundations for future generations. we must set the course here in europe. we'd have to do more, but this is going in the right direction.
i have to say, madam president, the climate crisis, the energy security issue, the nature conservation crisis, foreign and security policy, the economic and social consequences of this terrible war of aggression by vladimir putin - these are just some of the major crises and challenges that we face or that we are facing as the european union. and we all do not tire of stressing this again and again - we members of parliament, the european commission and the member states. but at the same time we are seeing that a large part of the institutions in the european union are not prepared to draw the right budgetary consequences from this. because the truth is, our annual budgets are not able to handle these big crises, to have enough flexibility for the big challenges. and that is why i would like to ask the european commission to present the revision of the financial framework as soon as possible, at the beginning of next year. i would ask the member states to respond constructively and not to resort to defensive measures. otherwise, their sunday speeches will be untrustworthy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i think the debate has made a number of points. the first is that it was the colleagues on the special committees who defended the priorities of the council presidency and who wanted to support and finance them. i think that's a very good message. the second is that i think it is also time for parliament to be in a state of unity, for us to be having lively discussions on one or another subject, such as the palestinian textbooks, but to be in complete agreement on the major points and to be in a closed parliament. and the third is: i have noticed that both commissioner hahn and deputy minister georgiev have been following the whole debate - this lively debate - all along. that means that they have the necessary tenacity to ensure that we can also achieve a good result in the negotiations. i'm looking forward to it.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the commission's 2023 programme is bold, delaying and beneath the circumstances, mr šefčovič. two of the commissioners responsible, mr gentiloni and mr breton, have proposed a eurobond with a common borrowing, with a commission guarantee, to deal with the energy crisis, as we did with the european recovery fund to deal with the pandemic. what does the commission say about this proposal in its programme? i'm not doing anything. president von der leyen told us that with the energy crisis the market for natural gas is not working well and we have precision, poverty and the brink of a recession. what has the commission proposed to deal with this problem? so far, nothing has come up. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we have a dangerous increase in social inequalities and inequalities between member states. what has the commission done about this? nothing of substance. the social agenda has remained an empty label for years after the gothenburg summit. and what are you doing to revise the multiannual financial framework, as unanimously requested by the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control? can we continue with a budget of 1% of european gdp when the challenges are increasing?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would also like to thank all honourable members for their interventions, for their support, for their critical remarks, for their encouragement to work on some of the files faster than we propose in the commission work programme. and i can assure you that we will do our utmost to come up with the proposals as soon as they are ready, as soon as they are of good quality. if you would allow me to be a little bit more concrete, i would also like to thank the honourable members and subscribe to what mr olbrycht said that indeed we had good cooperation and a good exchange of views between the committees, between the conference of presidents, and i think that such good cooperation, that this spirit of partnership, would be very important this year and the whole of next year because, as mr olbrycht rightly points out, now we are working for the legacy of this legislator, of this parliament. the people will judge us in the future on how we managed to cope with these unprecedented crises: covid-19, economic challenges, russian aggression against ukraine, and how we demonstrated that we can adapt to these new challenges and the new situations. and i think that if you look at it from the perspective of how we dealt so far with the crisis, we managed the covid-19 situation, we introduced the next generation eu budget, we are really coming up with unprecedented proposals when it comes to energy. and we will have a whole-morning discussion on this tomorrow, and the discussion on this package in the college in the commission was just about to conclude as i was leaving to meet you and address the plenary on our commission work programme. so we will have the whole debate about this tomorrow. but i can confirm to mr olbrycht that, yes, another analysis and revision of the mff will be presented in the second quarter of the next year. this will give us an opportunity to look at how we managed with the mff that we have at out disposal, how it works in combination with next generation eu, and what are the challenges we have to meet in this regard in future years to come. to mr marques, i again would like to reassure you and, of course, the s&d group that the social dimension is very important to the european commission. we are already preparing for what most probably will be another social summit to be held again in porto in the spring of next year. and that when it comes to the concrete deliverables, you are very aware of the action plan on how to implement the european pillar of social rights, which was adopted and which we are gradually fulfilling and bringing to fruition one by one, and we will definitely continue with that. what i think would be very important – and this would be my request to the whole european parliament – tomorrow we will be debating the energy situation. mr papademos and also several other honourable members asked to intervene on this topic. so you will see the package we are proposing. but i think what will be very important for all of you, especially for citizens of europe, is how can we help them also financially in this very difficult situation when it comes to the vulnerable households, when it comes to the to the smes, when it comes to big industry. i think for the smes and households, we would have a recipe for how to help. but we need your assistance to get repowereu to be finally adopted by the council and the parliament. we need to push it over the finishing line because it creates the possibility to use the financial firepower we have to help smes and households. and it would be my plea that we should treat this file as the top priority of all of us, because that is the vehicle we can use to help the smes and to help the households, and to liberate space for the governments across europe to use state aid to help the energy-intensive industries, because we know that it’s very important. i totally agree with mr azmani that we should be masters of our destiny. we should be those who shape the world, because we europeans value human rights, we value the rule of law, we are fighting for the environment, we are fighting to make sure that rules and international law are respected across the world. and for that we need to do much more, we need to be – i totally agree with you – more autonomous, stronger in energy, stronger in critical raw materials, to be sure that we can invest even more and become stronger when it comes to all future-oriented new technologies – be it renewables, be it hydrogen or be it electric vehicles. to come back to mr marques on some of the concrete responses on social policies and social measures, i think one which will be clearly felt by every single citizen across europe is our proposal, which we are going to present to you, to digitalise and create a european social security pass. this would be something like a european social card, which would again help our citizens to use the freedoms of the european union, offer the guarantees, increase the flexibility of how they can benefit from the size of the european labour market. and we are also looking in great depth at how sure was used. what are the results, what are the conclusions and how can we use that experience for our future work? mr azmani also referred to the trade agreements. you will see from our commission work programme that we would like to push further our cooperation in the field of trade with chile, with mexico, with new zealand, with other countries too, just to simply make sure that we remain this very important trading superpower that we are, and to bring also our approach with a new type of trade agreement where we take care of sustainable development, high-quality environmental standards and respect for social standards too. to respond to mr lamberts, i totally agree with him that the future is electric, and you know how much we have worked on this through our european battery alliance. it would seem we set a very good example because we see the focus the united states of america is putting on this very technology. we have to make sure that we would be absolutely competitive in that regard. concerning reach, right now we are finalising our impact assessment, we are finalising our consultations with the key stakeholders and we are also creating the space, a good feed-in, for our regulatory scrutiny board. i can assure you that once this file is ready, we will not hesitate to present it to parliament and to the council. if you allow me to close with one additional request: if you would look through our annexes, you will find not only the annex about what we want to do next year, but also one on the pending files which we now have at different stages of trilogues. it’s 116 files. 116 files! so i think that we again have to talk between us, the two communitarian institutions, the european parliament and the commission, on how we are going to accelerate the work on these spending files. so that next year, when i come to see you, we can say that this list is much shorter, that we delivered on the spending files and that we would focus on the right priorities and we will have the next occasion when we will be working on this joint declaration of priority files for the next year. so to repeat my two requests at the end: repowereu and pending files, because this would help us to move to better territory and to respond to the expectations of our citizens.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. – today, the commission presents its work programme 2023 in the european parliament. hopefully, next year the citizens will be directly involved in the creation of the work programme, together with the other european institutions. the conference on the future of europe showed us that the citizens want to be more involved in the decision making process at the eu level. not only 5 years, when they vote, or every 20 or 30 years when something similar to the conference happens. and not only on specific legislative proposals, but also in agenda setting processes, such as the creation process of the european commission work programme. a permanent consultation mechanism should be created as a result of this key request, that will integrate the citizens in the political discussion revolving around the work programme. in this way we can provide a substantial path of involvement for the citizens that need to be at the centre of european politics. representative democracy should be reinforced by a meaningful participatory democracy in order for the eu to stay connected to its citizens.
in writing. i welcome the commission's decision to postpone complex and burdensome legislative projects such as the chemicals regulation reach. the announcement of a review of the legislation with a view to european competitiveness is also a positive signal. i regret, however, that the commission is still sticking to the controversial nature conservation package without addressing european agriculture. we need less burden and bureaucracy and more planning certainty for our operations. otherwise europe risks weakening its own competitiveness.
the commission has already done so. nord stream 2 has been attacked and there has been serious damage here, which is seriously affecting the energy supply of europe and especially germany. sweden, together with denmark and germany, wanted to set up a commission of inquiry to investigate this incident. sweden has now withdrawn from it and has not disclosed this information here, citing national interests. so this is european solidarity? i don't think so, because i understand something else by that. and this is where i get the impression -- and not just me, but a lot of people -- that something should be suppressed deliberately because it doesn't fit into the narrative that's being told here. the commission has no information on the state of play of the investigation, and if so, what is it? and if not, why not?
(the president cut off the microphone) ... not satisfied with your answer. because this is not only naïve, which you mentioned at the beginning in a different context, but it is simply and poignantly a boycott of doing your job. because you have to make sure that our critical infrastructure is protected. and if you don't, you have to name the guilty ones. and if you do not name them, then you are creating a case here where no one believes the european union anymore if you then accuse anyone here. name the guilty ones! i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a satisfactory answer to this question. i would like to ask you again, and i repeat my questions: is this all you have so far? is that all you have? this is a massive disruption of the most powerful country in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the brutal murder of juraj and matúš in bratislava has shocked our entire community. lgbti people across europe are afraid afraid of being victims of hate and violence. the murder in bratislava is not an isolated incident. he has been involved in countless violent crimes against our community throughout europe this year alone: the murder of malte c. in münster, the attack on the london pub in oslo with several injuries and deaths. and at prides in germany, trans people were attacked, rainbow flags were burned, and people were hit with cobblestones. europe is not a free zone for queer people. people don't dare to be themselves anymore. hateful rhetoric and doubts about human rights for lgbti people provide a sad framework for this. you can't be neutral when there's hostility. we must show our support, take a stand across europe. that's our job.
mr. chairman, first of all, i would like to express my sincere condolences to the relatives and loved ones of these two young people. the shameful act of terrorism that took place in slovakia is the reprehensible act of a desperate young man who succumbed to extremism and neo-nazi propaganda. we must never allow the spread of hatred against any person, any minority or any community, in this case lgbt. the killer's manifesto also revealed that he harbored hatred for various religions, races, and other groups. unfortunately, i have to say that the vulgarisation of public discourse in recent years in slovakia, including the impact of isolation caused by the pandemic, has had an extremely negative impact on our society, and directly increases enormous polarization or hatred. we at kdh have been strongly pointing out this trend and have long since launched the behind the line campaign. i wish that in the wake of this great tragedy, we would all take our words and actions more seriously.
mr president, on the night of 12 october a 19-year-old student from bratislava attacked and shot dead two young men from bratislava, matúš and juraj. it's a hate crime. this is not an attack on the lgbtq community. it's an attack on all of humanity. it's an attack on all of us because it targets everything that is at the heart of our values. it is directed at what we stand for as europe. and that's why we have to think. unfortunately, fear, violence and discrimination are still a reality faced by many lgbt people in a large part of the world. it's still dangerous for many members of this collective to show their feelings and just be themselves. that is why we must defend that human rights are not an ideology. human rights are our priority and that is why we must be at the forefront of their defence.
member of the commission. – mr president, deputy prime minister, honourable members, you have all pointed out, rightly so, that words have consequences. and especially what is said by us politicians, which is far reaching, and thus we should speak responsibly and face consequences when we fuel hatred. you are right that hate speech and hate crime have seen a sharp rise across europe and have become a particularly serious and worrying phenomenon. resolute action is needed to tackle the eu-wide challenge. we must strengthen our set of regulatory and policy tools. the extension of the list of eu crimes to hate speech and hate crime would be a crucial step to ensuring minimum common rules on how to define criminal offences and sanctions applicable in all eu member states. there is no time to lose. i call on member states to swiftly adopt the council decision after obtaining the consent of the european parliament so the commission can present a legislative proposal that would ensure protection of all individuals and groups at risk of experiencing hate crime and hate speech. this terrible shooting is not an isolated incident. several such incidents happened in the past. they are a threat to all lgbtiq persons against our democracies and our open european societies. it is unacceptable that people have to pay a price for who they are, sometimes even pay with their lives, as in this case. what is happening to our brothers and sisters only strengthens my resolve to continue working for and marching with the lgbtiq communities around europe and beyond, even where we are not welcome. we know that we are doing the right thing. this is about people and their human rights. the right to live and have the good quality of life which every human being should have. the right to live and fighting hate is not an ideology.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, madam commissioner, i share the frustration expressed by many of you regarding the lack of progress on several files, including the extension of the list of eu crimes. however, as you know, the proposal did not receive yet unanimous support within the council, as required by the treaty. if the presidency receives indications that unanimity could be achieved, it will bring back this file to the table of the council. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, lgbtiq people all over europe look at us. they expect and demand that we do all we can to ensure that their basic rights are protected. and they are right to do so. let us continue to work together towards this goal by doing everything we can to protect the lgbtiq community and to ensure that they can enjoy full acceptance and inclusion.
i have received two motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 132 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the continuation of border control at internal borders in the schengen area, in the light of the recent judgment of the court of justice of the european union (c-368/20) (2022/2871 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting me to this debate. i’m sure you all agree that the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of the european union. but this key achievement has been under considerable strain in the past years due to successive, at times simultaneous, threats: terrorism, illegal and uncontrolled migration, covid-19 and, most recently, hybrid attacks, including instrumentalisation of migrants. the rules governing the movement of persons across borders are enshrined in the schengen borders code. as you know, the code is part of a more general framework of an area of freedom, security and justice. this framework is intended to strike a fair balance between the free movement of persons and the need to safeguard public policy and internal security. the schengen area, without internal border controls, has been made possible thanks to effective external border controls, as well as a whole range of compensatory measures, for example, on police cooperation, migration returns and visas. in a crisis situation, those compensatory measures are not always sufficient to safeguard public policy or internal security. therefore, the schengen borders code provides for the possibility to reintroduce and prolong internal border controls, always as a last resort, taking into account the principles of necessity and proportionality, and limited to the time that is strictly needed to respond to serious threat. the court of justice of the european union, in its judgment of 26 april 2022, confirmed that it is up to the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to issue an opinion when it has concerns as regards the necessity or proportionality of the planned reintroduction or prolongation of internal border controls. last but not least, when it comes to finding long—lasting solutions to the challenges we face at our borders, i should recall the importance of the proposal for an amendment to the schengen borders code presented by the commission in december 2021. in the view of the council, the proposal contains appropriate new tools to address the security threats which the eu is facing, in particular hybrid threats at our external borders. it also contains a wider array of alternative measures, notably in the field of police cooperation, which would reduce the need to reintroduce internal border controls. in addition, it creates a solid legal basis for travel restrictions in case of threats to public health. the council considers this a priority file and reached a general approach on it in june 2022. we stand ready to start negotiations with parliament as soon as you are ready.
member of the commission. – mr president, deputy prime minister, honourable members, schengen is dead: that is what some people claimed and other people feared in the spring of 2020, when member states set up internal border controls to stop the spread of covid-19 but at the same time caused a lot of problems for individuals and transports. at the time, we worked very hard to keep internal borders open. and, i assure you, schengen is very much alive. those covid-19 border shutdowns did show us that we should never take free movement for granted. so we embarked on an ambitious schengen reform to learn from past crises – migration, terror and covid-19 – and equip schengen for the future. our area of freedom, security and justice; the most valued achievement of our union and the foundation of our prosperity. a reform to jointly take responsibility for schengen. a move from administrating schengen to governing schengen, as we outlined in the schengen strategy last year: introducing an annual cycle of governance managed by the newly appointed schengen coordinator; kicked off by the new state of schengen report showing the health of the schengen area, good and bad; monitoring progress with schengen parameters; and now implementing the new schengen evaluation and monitoring mechanism that we proposed to help quickly identify problems and correct them. we set up the schengen forum to give schengen strong political direction with a key role for you, the european parliament, and in dedicated schengen council meetings, ministers decide on priorities, building trust and cooperation. an area without internal border controls must have strong external border controls fully compliant with fundamental rights. external border controls are a common responsibility. and let us be clear we need to do more to protect our external borders. we are putting in place a european integrated border management with a strategic approach to border management for the next five years. we are looking forward to receiving parliament’s input. for better protecting the external borders, we also need a fully functioning agency. frontex now have a stronger mandate and more resources, with soon a new executive director. giving the agency a strong governance framework. we also share common responsibility for security and our improving police cooperation. europol’s new mandate is fully in place and we are building state-of-the-art digital security systems. the new schengen information system will soon be online, followed next year by entry/exit and etias, the european travel information and authorisation system. once all these systems are operational and interoperable, our union will be more secure. protecting europe by connecting europe. honourable members, the court is clear: internal border controls must be temporary, exceptional and only happen when necessary and proportionate. my message to ministers at last week’s justice and home affairs council was also clear: i expect member states to comply with the court judgement. there is a growing awareness in the council and growing resolve to address the long-lasting problem, to address it sustainably, and we are doing that by putting our new system of schengen governance in action. i asked our new schengen coordinator to develop a roadmap to swiftly move away from internal border controls. he had a very constructive first meeting with member states last week. they now need to follow the roadmap, address internal border checks and restore this area of free movement and they need to do so with no further delay. if not, the commission will consider necessary next steps. and while it is good and right to enforce the rules, we must also adapt our rulebook to changing times to meet evolving challenges. that’s why we proposed to revise the schengen borders code. learning the lessons of the 2015 migration crisis, of terrorist attacks and of the pandemic, reinforcing the rules to make internal border checks truly a measure of last resort, subject to clear conditions and safeguards. member states must assess the risks for border regions and look for alternatives first. reinforced police cooperation is better than passport controls. everyone must now do their part. the council has already agreed its mandate to start negotiations on the schengen borders code, as we just heard from the representative of the council. now is parliament’s turn. let us pass this legislation. we need to make sure that when new member states join schengen, which i hope can be possible soon, the only proof you need, by the way, that schengen is still very much alive and we fully welcome the millions of proud new citizens into the schengen. everyone can enjoy free movement to the full in a fully functioning schengen area.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the schengen area is one of the most important components of our european union. it's not perfect yet. he's under a lot of pressure. preserving it, protecting this achievement, may be the task of our generation. but it also involves an honest appraisal. three member states want to be part of the schengen area and should finally be admitted. the attraction - commissioner, you just mentioned it - is therefore unbroken. at the same time, internal border controls are carried out in several member states, more frequently than the schengen borders code requires. why is that? because we must realize that the days of being surrounded exclusively by peaceful or friendly neighbors are over. everything that happens around us has an impact on the outermost countries, has an impact on the schengen area, has an impact on all the member states. recognizing this requires a mental attitude, but it requires practical solutions. why do some member states consider internal controls necessary? because we can and must do better in strengthening and securing the external borders. because we must step up the fight against smuggling and trafficking, against illegal immigration, against crossborder crime and organised crime. because we're not as close as we should be. so what do we need to do to protect schengen? improved cooperation between national authorities. strong agencies to assist member states in securing their external borders and in fighting all forms of crime. and an asylum and migration package that works, that is resilient and that also includes the important proposal against instrumentalised migration.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission is not the decision of the european court of justice is a slap in the face, a slap in the face for the member states that have introduced border controls. but he is just as much a slap in the face to the commission. it is the commission's task to verify whether border controls are really being used as a last resort, whether there really was no alternative to border controls. the commission does not. and the member states are not doing it either, because it is convenient to have introduced border controls once, and then difficult to get politically out of it. that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. i therefore expect that after this judgment, what the commissioner said will happen, namely that the member states will examine critically whether this is really necessary. this applies to my own country, germany, as well as to france, sweden, austria and all the other member states which have introduced these border controls. otherwise the schengen agreement is a hollow promise. we want schengen to live. that is why we want bulgaria and romania and croatia to become part of this schengen area. but for that to happen, the schengen area has to work, and that includes the absence of border controls.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i think we must be clear once again that when we talk about external border controls, one sentence is actually true: borders are only protected if human rights are also protected at those borders. but what we are seeing now is that also because of these human rights violations at the external borders, because of this chaos, also because we are not only building walls on our borders, but also a wall of lies about the situation at the external borders, that because of this situation we actually have chaos, which also transfers to the internal borders. we can organise migration better, we can take in asylum seekers better, we can organise all this well if we really take on this task. we see that we do not do this, that the member states do not do this, and that we also watch - also as the eu commission - when eu rules are violated, and we see this at internal borders. i come from germany, and i have to say that i'm honestly a little ashamed in this house. i do not think it is right that the federal government - my party is part of this federal government - simply extends the internal border controls to austria. and i must say quite clearly that i would actually be happy if we did not leave this to political competition alone, but if we finally stopped using the rule of the strongest in europe - and the member states may sometimes feel stronger - and if we brought the rule of law back to the fore. that is why i believe that infringement proceedings are the right way to reach a decision: how can we best implement eu rules? the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to achieve their goals. i believe that the member states must now also ensure that this wonderful achievement of internal borders that we have is, in the end, an achievement that is not being jeopardised lightly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in austria, 75 000 illegal migrants have been apprehended this year. that's as many as between 2017 and 2021. in germany, more than 150 000 asylum applications had been submitted by the end of september. the seven and a half million ukrainians in europe - about one million in germany alone - have already completely overloaded the reception capacity. in the district of fürstenfeldbruck in bavaria, seizures of private property for the accommodation of refugees are therefore already being considered. it is clear that the interests of our own people, who are also increasingly impoverished and destitute, cannot be betrayed any more. the problem is not the border controls in the schengen area, which the ecj has declared illegal, but the fact that we have a border protection agency called frontex which does everything but protect the external borders effectively. border security is about turning away illegal immigrants at the border, and they are illegal because they come from safe countries. i don't blame the immigrants. we're the ones creating the false incentives here like universal service and so on. this has been evident since 2015, but instead of making fundamental changes in migration policy in the interests of our citizens, uncontrolled mass immigration continues to be forced. one thing must be clear to everyone: the question of migration is the question of europe's destiny. we can rebuild a country that has been destroyed, we can overcome an energy crisis created by a denial of green reality, we can even iron out the mistakes of the ecb. but population exchange, as rigorously carried out here for years, is irreversible. so my appeal to all of you is to stop this madness now!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the fact that the main sponsor of the climate conference is called coca-cola seems like a bad joke. it is precisely these companies whose business practices we must tackle, rather than rolling out the greenwashing carpet. this is precisely our homework between the climate conferences, where we are in such a state as the eu that we can even slow down on our reduction targets. with repowereu alone and with 'fit for 55', we can achieve at least 60% reduction instead of the current 55%. but above all, we need more solidarity, the recognition that some countries have a harder time protecting themselves from the consequences of the climate crisis - consequences that the industrialized countries have to answer for with their fossil fuel business model. here in sharm el-sheikh, there must be concrete commitments for financial support, and this includes a permanent mechanism to finance climate-related damage and losses. the russian war of aggression has shown us how vulnerable our dependence on fossil fuels makes us. we have a responsibility at this cop to usher in the global era of renewables.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me put a couple of different terms in relation to each other today. the self-proclaimed climate crisis no. 1 is being met by political decisions to exit a functioning, cheap energy system, without any thought to a reasonable impact assessment on the european economy. an economy which, moreover, not only finances environmental protection - the second concept - but makes it possible by means of technical innovation. environmental protection, which is essential for the preservation of our world - our planet, which you all so vehemently defend - and for future generations, has nothing to do with climate protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment, such as the removal of trees for wind turbines or the construction of offshore structures in waterfowl nesting grounds. the functioning of our economy depends on the availability of energy at all times. volatile renewables do not do this and, as so-called transitional energy sources, have also created a fatal geostrategic dependence on gas. they are the cause of our energy crisis. the energy shortage resulting from the energy crisis, the gigantic costs of converting and building an energy system that is not baseload-efficient, and an out-of-control carbon pricing are what are leading to energy poverty. gas sanctions, which fill russia's coffers with rising gas prices while doing us massive damage, do the rest. but they are not the root cause of the deliberately political-ideological energy crisis that is crippling our economy and impoverishing our citizens. the green deal, the climate bill, the fit for 55 package, the cargo bike, green hydrogen are all expressions of a completely insane green wealth destruction. it is not the climate crisis that is causing chaos in the world, mrs johansson, representing mr timmermans, but climate magogists who are shouting doom-scenarios and pursuing policies against their own citizens. and this is man-made.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the world is looking to sharm el-sheikh, the world is looking to egypt. and i don't want to talk to you about climate, i want to talk to you about human rights. because egypt is a country where people who criticize the system, who criticize the government, just disappear from the streets, are thrown into prison and then never come out, are tortured and sometimes never see the light of day again. ladies and gentlemen, cop27 will take place in a country where human rights are trampled underfoot. and i think that we as the european union cannot turn a blind eye to this, but that we have to address this - address this to those who are responsible in egypt. and that is why i believe that in the resolution we are adopting here in this parliament we must also find strong words on the human rights situation in egypt, on political prisoners. and i want to name one personally, this is alaa abd el-fattah. he's been on a hunger strike for many weeks. he threatens to die in the oppression of this egyptian regime. and i think that we as the european parliament must raise our voice for these political prisoners who are being oppressed by this regime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we're only three weeks away from the climate conference, and so far it looks like it's going to be a disaster. the countries of the global south are demanding justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of air pollution. we have to finally acknowledge that. loss and damage is real! at the same time, we made a promise a year ago in glasgow: we must stop the breakdown of the paris agreement and finally reach the 2°c target by sharm el sheikh. ladies and gentlemen, none of this has happened yet! nothing has happened because there is no leadership from the eu. where are the joint press conferences with john kerry? where are the global alliances? commissioner timmermans, where are you? we can't see you. you have not even come here to this central debate. if this climate conference fails, you're responsible for it, too. show yourself. you're gonna have to take care of yourself and make sure that the climate conference is a success.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. glasgow is now a year old and not a single promise made there has been kept. just 19 countries have submitted new climate targets, despite all of them promising to finally get on the sub-2 degree path. the global methane pledge was signed in a major move to reduce methane emissions. but so far not a single country has a working legislation on how this should be done. we are also having a difficult time negotiating here in the eu, because so far it is mainly the oil and gas industry that is dictating what such a limitation should look like in the energy sector. we've heard a lot about loss and damage. i don't want to do this again. we should be clear: each tonne of co2 causes a consequential cost of 180 euros in damage. the federal environment agency has calculated that. every fossil fuel subsidy we spend in the current crisis has that 180 euros on top of it, and we should be honest enough to say that to our citizens who are calling for subsidies.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. somehow it's the same game over and over again. we're getting more and more refugees, and you show up here and tell the same crap about border management in particular. the truth is, you really have no control over anything. the schengen agreement and the promise to protect the external borders have clearly failed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we have a refugee crisis now, or the refugee numbers of 2015, and there were many promises that this would never happen again. but, mrs. johansson, you'd better look in your phone, that's right, because the truth would be here. so maybe if you look up, you'll learn something. you talk about integration into the labour market. that's another lie. we see everywhere in all european countries that people are not integrating and are only taking from labour market integration measures what brings them money. so here's the thing: think about it, you've failed completely, and learn from it.
mr president, commissioner johansson, ladies and gentlemen, the latest eurostat figures show that 100 million europeans are living in poverty today, that is to say one in five citizens, with italy at the top of the list of countries experiencing economic hardship. and in this dramatic social context, the ukrainian conflict has brought 11 million refugees to europe, adding to the 2 million already present on our continent. people fleeing a conflict in which we are directly involved and who therefore have a moral duty to help, but who do not have the resources to do so because they are involved in another emergency caused by the suicidal policies of the european union. in addition to the 13 million refugees, it is estimated that there are some 5 million illegal immigrants on our continent today, a number that is continuing to increase due to landings that, in 2022, have brought the record figure of 230 000 arrivals. an illegal flow of migrants that makes the pockets of many ngos fatter, but empties those of our social protection systems, which are now in danger of implosion also because of the ideology of "no borders". in a world of scarce resources, it is therefore more urgent than ever that the european union put an end to the logic of 'let's welcome them all', closing the doors to illegal immigration, making more bold returns, and thus focusing humanitarian instruments on those, such as ukrainian refugees, who are really entitled to our help. this is the only way to prevent europe from becoming a giant 'squid game' between europeans and migrants, where 120 million poor people will be forced to kill each other under the sadistic eye of the progressive elites in order to grab the few resources at their disposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the military escalation in ukraine continues to cause death and destruction, forcing people to flee in search of safety and protection. according to the unhcr, there are more than 4 350 000 ukrainian refugees registered in the european union for temporary protection or similar measures. the european response is unprecedented in providing financial support and providing housing, food, work, education and healthcare, especially to women and children, who are most at risk of violence and abuse. but there is also food insecurity, rising energy prices, which are causing instability to trigger further migration flows from third countries to europe. and then a reform of the common european asylum system can no longer be postponed to provide rapid responses to the migratory challenges, both in terms of solidarity and in terms of fair sharing of responsibility. to avoid devastating chain effects it is in everyone's interest to commit to stop the sound of guns and that is why the movement will join the demonstration in rome, without party flags, for peace.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the temporary protection directive had three objectives: to provide immediate protection, to send a geopolitical signal, and not to overburden national asylum systems. all three objectives have been achieved. we are giving protection to more than four million ukrainians in the european union. we stand united with ukraine. asylum systems are underutilized. but, ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing the instrument cannot and has never been able to do: it must be put into practice and organized on the ground. it was clear from the outset that housing, care, access to the labour market and education needed clever planning and organisation, a pooling of forces at national level. the commission is doing its best to help, as much as it can, with financial resources, with technical solutions, with the solidarity platform. but it is the member states who have to supply, and in particular their municipalities, cities and regions with, accommodation and energy prices. for the challenges will not diminish with the approach of winter, neither in ukraine - when we see the attacks on civilians, the repeated attacks in recent days on vital infrastructure - nor for our officials in the member states, who are doing their best under difficult conditions. is the temporary protection directive a one-size-fits-all solution to the pact? in my opinion, no. it may be a useful addition to the crisis mechanism, but it can never replace the pact. the same goes for the proposal against instrumentalised migration. and let me make one last comment, looking at our neighborhood: the chain war, hunger, movement is not new. we as the european union also have a responsibility in the area of food security within the eu, outside the eu. we must therefore take advantage of all the opportunities for food production and must refrain from doing anything that would slow down, restrict or make production impossible.
mr president, the future of russia is no longer at home. the future of russia is sitting in the cold corridors of our migration agencies, in our towns and villages where russian dissidents try to escape. the future has different faces, different genders, different origins and professions, but they are all united by their unwillingness to live in a murderous state. i know prominent journalists and renowned writers, many of whom were trying to help. i know politicians who grabbed their children, small kids, and drove away before the police raided their homes, searching for them in order to imprison them for criticism of the war. two women raising a child went crazy, fearing that this child will be taken away from them just because they are anti-putin. we tried to help, but we have to do more in order to help those who always opposed this war and opposed putin. this parliament has already called for introduction of a european—wide humanitarian visa programme. this is what we have to do. it is not only our moral duty; it is in our interest to save russia, with which we will have to deal in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union has been very silent since the ukraine was attacked on 24 february. with the tpd, the temporary protection directive, we have used a good instrument, commissioner, to help ukrainians. that was a success. europeans have opened their hearts and their homes. now the russians are coming, more russians who refuse putin. and, ladies and gentlemen, we europeans have a responsibility also towards these russians who are against the system, and we must offer these russians a safe haven, a safe haven. and these people must be able to find refuge in europe, just as the people who fled from ukraine. i would also like to say a final word on the migration pact. because of course the tpd is not a response to the migration pact, and i would like to say, in particular to those member states which are now calling for the european union to help: yes, the european union must help, but these member states must also abandon their blockade of the migration pact.
mr president, the war calls us to remember our human values, which are expressed in solidarity with all those fleeing ukraine. all refugees deserve the same respect, without exception. and yet there is a hidden racism that shows up in the different treatment of refugees. many africans who were in ukraine were arrested at the union's borders. everyone has the right to flee a country at war, no matter what color their skin. member states should allow foreign students who have fled ukraine to continue their studies without bureaucratic obstacles. indeed, african students who were in ukrainian universities or who were in training face many problems in our states. they can only enroll in our universities if they cannot return to their home countries. some states even require them to return home and from there apply for a visa to continue their studies at a university in the european union. we call on the member states of the european union to welcome with the same compassion those from minorities. our solidarity must be total, given the importance we attach to education.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. terrorism is, and i quote, the unlawful use of force against civilians to achieve political ends. nothing better describes the russian actions in ukraine than the word terrorism. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. what else can we call it when russia seizes millions of tonnes of ukrainian grain in ports and then blackmails the international community with famine? what else does it mean when putin indiscriminately bombs ukrainian families with missiles and drones just because his army is failing militarily? and of course it is also terrorism if russia threatens ukraine and the rest of the world with nuclear annihilation. we should stop talking about the hot stuff. putin's russia is a state sponsor of terrorism worldwide, and we need to deal with it the way we deal with other terrorists.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. putin is escalating the violence. we are witnessing a perfidious drone war every day, against women, children, old people - in short, against life. this makes us even more determined to support ukraine. we must be just as determined in our own resilience and in protecting our people. the common gas purchase obviously to keep prices down, discussed for too long must finally be implemented. it is an important building block of european strength. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need a hard buy now, way over 50%. to play putin to the wall, it means not to chatter, but to fool around. but it is not the same as artificially setting prices. then the gas is simply sold elsewhere than in europe. the heads of state or government can safely ignore this proposal tomorrow - it is doing more harm than good. we can achieve real relief if we preserve the market without passing on the pressure to people and businesses. so, no to a brussels gas price cap and yes to a temporary gas price brake.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. you can get the impression that the trivialization and normalization of right-wing extremists or post-fascists is always something that others do, something that doesn't happen where we are. but that is not the case, and that is why we have put it on the agenda. we simply see that in many member states, far-right, populist, post-fascist parties with a nazi past are gaining ground and exploiting people's fears and concerns. we have seen it in italy and sweden, where they have made it to government participation - and in both cases only because they can count on the support of parties in the so-called political centre. at the same time, parts of these parties have adopted the discourse of these parties, and they also normalize it. we look at italy and we see that silvio berlusconi, who is a close party friend of manfred weber, has formed a coalition with the post-fascist brothers of italy. and how does the leader of the largest group in this house react? he just trivializes it. he insists that forza italia and berlusconi are only in this coalition to keep it pro-european. you're not serious, are you, mr. weber? would you join a government with the afd in germany to say that we want to make sure that it stays on the pro-european course? i mean, we just saw the days through new tweets from berlusconi, on whose side he is: on putin's side, where he reaffirmed that he wrote him a great letter and sent him 20 bottles of vodka and he responded just as nicely. ladies and gentlemen, these patterns of trivialization are really dangerous. they are politically dangerous, and we have seen how long orbán and his illiberal democracy have been downplayed here in the largest group in this house. let's turn around, because that's a dangerous road. back to a bastion of democracy against right-wing extremists and post-fascists!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. when i saw the subject of "whitewashing of extreme and anti-european parties", i thought to myself: who but the left can put such nonsense on the agenda? but i'm actually glad about the debate, because it shows that the left sees what we all see now. the left's worldview, the left's cultural hegemony, is breaking down: in sweden, in italy, in hungary, of course in poland, but also in france, it is close to breaking down. the election results are clear. it is precisely these election results that are the reason why we are having this debate here today - if there is any debate at all. it's just about defaming right-wing parties, conservative parties, without having any arguments for it. but you should take note: the people, the people no longer want left hegemony. they're sick of open borders and imported crime, they're sick of gender and awareness, they're sick of excessive minority rights, and they want affordable energy and not deindustrialization through the green deal. the danish social democrats, by the way, understood this a while ago when they imposed a significant restriction on immigration. the swedish social democrats have also done so, albeit too late. are they all fascists now, in your opinion? perhaps the left should think before the next european elections about how it can get a little closer to reality and to the needs of the people. otherwise - and this would be welcome - we will have considerably fewer leftists in parliament soon after the next elections.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in italy, a collector of fascist devotionals was elected president of the senate last week. and this session was to be led by 92-year-old auschwitz survivor liliana segre. what a humiliation for this extraordinary woman! how could this happen? the berlusconi forza italia campaign has been made possible, with the strong support of the european christian democrats, including those in this house. is that what you want, right-wing governments that will not miss an opportunity to undermine democracy? isn't it enough what orbán has done in hungary? sweden is now governed by a coalition of christian democrats, moderates and liberals, which has made itself dependent on the far-right sweden democrats. so i ask the liberals: is that what you want? there is a clear line between parties which are committed to liberal democracy and those which are not and which want to abolish this very democracy as a trojan horse. democracy does not die because it is attacked. democracy dies when the people who call themselves democrats do not defend it.
the commission has already done so. in every plenary session this parliament deplores the existence of the so-called extreme right. the european parliament has always been a party of the far right, and it is not just the far right that is opposed to the european union. and because they take the concerns and needs of the people seriously, right-wing conservative coalitions of governments are becoming increasingly popular. my party, the afd, is now the strongest party in east germany according to polls. but all the other parties refuse to cooperate with us because we are elected but not democratic. this is what brussels wants to see throughout the eu. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. you speak of post-fascism. a new word that's been created that's been baffling me. how on earth can the press let you get away with such nonsense? why doesn't she question you and tear your silly wording to shreds? post-fascism is anything that comes after fascism. they're post-fascist. i'm a post-fascist, you know. we are all post-fascists. by definition, of course. because fascism was before us and we are now. their word formation is nothing but an empty word bag. it's a zero word. but you don't care. logic is nothing, contact guilt is everything, and if it is only the contact of two words that you have thoughtlessly spoken in one sentence: afd and your brand newly invented post-fascism. and abrakadabra, that's proof in your world that you're one of the good guys and the afd isn't. by now, i'm afraid you've come to believe in your own logic, or post-logic, and feel very comfortable in your post-argumentative parallel universe, where only post-discursive self-denial and post-moral good-evil division take place. or, to put it another way, at some point in the last few years, you lost touch with reality and rationality or just gave up on your own volition, and we're all paying the price for that now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to extend our warm congratulations to the new president of the european court of auditors, and to our group. we are very pleased with your choice. with the nextgenerationeu plan, we have practically double the budget. however, these two parts of eu spending - the mff on the one hand and the reconstruction plan on the other - follow completely different rules. unlike the eu's multiannual budget, which is based on reimbursement of costs and compliance with conditions, the recovery plan pays member states for meeting pre-determined, very general targets. we understand the urgency of additional investment. but when we work with two budgets and apply very different rules, the funds are not subject to standardized, strict controls. we are not playing into the hands of rent-seekers like viktor orbán, for example, by making this rule so simple? we also need absolute transparency in the use of eu funds, including the list of those who receive cohesion and agricultural funds. for example, former minister babiš, with his company agrofert, misappropriated millions of agricultural funds for his non-agricultural business. how many of these agro-ferts are there across the eu? we need transparency, accountability and, above all, a standardised approach to eu funds. the aim must be that every citizen can see at any time how much money has been spent from taxes and for what purpose.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. congratulations on your new office. i'm sorry i haven't had a chance to talk to you, but i thought we could catch up. today i just want to say thank you. first of all, i would like to thank you for having mastered the - in my opinion - totally unjustified attacks on a french newspaper, which unfortunately were also picked up by parts of this house, and for being stronger than ever today. then, of course, i thank you today for the annual report we are debating. for the third time in a row, the court of auditors has to give a negative audit opinion on parts of the union budget. this is not trivial, and, commissioner hahn, you should take this seriously and not try to explain it away. i urge you to implement the recommendations and to correct the system errors. finally, i would like to thank you again, mr president, for the special report on covid, in particular on the dubious open questions of president von der leyen's gigantic vaccine procurement. this report really hit a nerve. many members have already spoken. the european public prosecutor's office is now taking up the case. mr president, i wish you every success and every success in your office. you can keep up your biting and your eagerness to expose irregularities. the citizens will thank you. we have to make sure that the budget is properly managed. we do our part. that's good.
madam president, dear colleagues, just yesterday, something surprising happened: 75 billion of polish cohesion money are frozen. and how did this happen? not because of the article 7 procedure that is blocked for seven years, not because of the conditionality regulation that the commission refuses to apply to poland for two years now and not because of the ecj rulings that the polish government keeps ignoring to the tune of more than eur 1 million a day. no, it seems that a brave commission official applies properly the common provisions regulation, which clearly says if you do not respect the fundamental rights and the fundamental rights charter, you cannot have money. also, when your control mechanisms break down, there should be no transfers. mr hahn, of course, this should have happened much, much earlier. it is good that it is happening now, and of course, this should not only happen when the member state in question fills out the questionnaire, admitting itself that it is breaking the rule of law. mr. murphy, you should keep a close look at the commission for properly applying those standards in all member states and protecting the eu budget. we have the rules, we have the instruments and we should make sure that this is not just up to the brave civil servants, but that they get the full political support for upholding the rule of law.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the year 2022 has brought the issue of enlargement back onto the agenda. that's good news. we have even given other countries in the east the prospect of eu membership. but how realistic is this prospect? in the end, it must be said that enlargement has become a farce, and many are to blame for this. we have deceived, we have betrayed all those in the western balkans to whom we basically promised eu membership more than two decades ago. we are not even in a position to start accession talks with north macedonia, despite the fact that it has accepted painful compromises. we are not even able to grant the citizens of kosovo freedom of travel, although their country has long since fulfilled all the criteria for granting visa-free travel. who among them will believe that we are serious when we talk about eu enlargement? yes, the subject is back, but we lack credibility. we must therefore prove to the countries of the western balkans that we want them in the eu. otherwise, it's an empty promise to everyone. at the same time, we must cut off funds to those who do not respect our common values and who do not respect our foreign policy. i want you to do it now!
i have to say, madam president, we are constantly talking about the planned accession of the balkan countries to the eu. and each time i have to say that not one of these countries even remotely meets the necessary criteria for inclusion. the balkans are still the main route for illegal migration. most illegal weapons still enter the eu via these countries. they're still highly corrupt. even the eu commission itself confirms this, and i quote: 'it is still difficult to achieve and maintain democratic standards in the western balkans'. this is despite the fact that the eu has invested over 21 billion euros in support of these countries since 2000. now, let's add another 14 billion to that. it is time to finally admit failure, to end the process of integration once and for all and to use tax money in this greatest economic crisis for those who generate it: the european citizen.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was finally understood that enlargement policy is more than just annual country reports. it is hope for democracy, for security and for a happy future. the commission's recommendation to make bosnia and herzegovina a candidate country for eu membership is a great signal. but until something changes, it will take time. furthermore, many young people will leave the country because they see no future. there is little to no progress on the green agenda. and instead of supporting democratic reforms in the country, which elected parliamentarians decide, the representative of the international community decides a comprehensive electoral and constitutional reform that harden the ethnic divide. this reform breaks not only european standards but also the first key category which we ourselves demand the country to fulfil. and the commission has not said anything about this yet. perhaps you'll take advantage of the opportunity, mr. várhelyi. so let's stop patting each other on the back. let us develop a partnership on par with concrete successes in the ecological transformation, in the creation of a european security architecture and a real perspective for the young people in the region.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i understand the enthusiasm for the prospect of enlarging the eu to include more countries. but the truth is that none of these countries, including bosnia and herzegovina, are ready to join the eu according to the criteria used so far. and in bosnia and herzegovina, the democratic deficit is already due to the peculiar role of the high commissioner, who is not elected but has incredible legislative and executive powers. so if we want to win over these countries and the majority of the people, then it will probably only take a new stage of integration. but full membership would not do justice to these countries. but it would import an incredible number of the problems that these countries have and also of the inadequacies into the eu. and those are the ones we can't solve. and we've had enough of that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot put off the alarm clock that has been sounding for some time now, and which is set to sound in the wake of the unjustified war waged by putin in ukraine. the time has come, and indeed has come for some time now, to tackle the question of enlargement of the union to the western balkans with commitment and credibility. we are talking about a part of the european family that we risk losing because we are disappointed and discouraged by our slowness. in serbia, polls show that only 46% of the population is in favour of joining the eu, a figure that is falling month by month. years of european procrastination have given free rein to the ferocious russian propaganda which, with its blows of disinformation and fake news, has drawn public opinion into its orbit. the enlargement policy is now more than ever a strategic investment for peace, security and stability throughout the continent. of course, the european alarm clock is not enough. it is essential that the countries concerned pursue the necessary reforms with determination. only through concrete guarantees of the rule of law, the normalisation of relations with our neighbours and alignment on a common security and defence policy can we really come together under the same european flag.
dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues. the package sends an encouraging message to the western balkan countries that they remain a priority for the european union. apart from the country-by-country reviews we heard, the most important message was the granting of conditional candidate status to bosnia and herzegovina. this is a way of encouraging the country's political elites to cooperate, but it also requires the necessary steps to be taken towards constitutional reform and amendment of the electoral law. the importance of the reforms was reaffirmed at the beginning of october, when the croats were overwhelmed for the fourth time in the election of the croatian member of the joint presidency. it is high time that this unjust practice was brought to an end. in addition, the european commission and the representatives of the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs sent a clear message to the republic of serbia. however, the serbian authorities must stop being duplicitous. the european union is serbia's main political trading partner, with accession negotiations open. nevertheless, serbia refuses to align with the european union's foreign and security policy. the absence of any condemnation of the russian aggression against ukraine is particularly problematic. serbia needs to decide where its future lies and it needs to do so without delay. i express my deep concern about the freedom of the media in the republic of serbia and the rule of law, which are at very low levels. the political momentum is there. now it's their responsibility to prove themselves.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we have seen in the house that there is a very broad consensus that the people of the western balkans deserve our honesty. they deserve our word. in june 2003, at its thessaloniki summit, the council gave the people of the six balkan states a prospect of accession. but in the last two decades, progress has been very slow for a long time. a time so long that a vacuum has been created which moscow, beijing and ankara are all too happy to exploit for their own purposes. this is the geostrategic scale we're talking about. that is why we must restore european credibility. that is why the enlargement package, commissioner, is a good step. but we cannot leave it at that. it is necessary to grant kosovo visa-free travel, and to negotiate swiftly with north macedonia, albania and montenegro. the european union must act again in the western balkans, rather than just responding to global geopolitics and regional crises.
madam president, article 38 of the istanbul convention includes female genital mutilation, which constitutes sexual violence and a violation of women's rights to sexual and reproductive health and physical integrity. in this context, a civil society association in germany has developed, in collaboration with the government, a protection letter which aims to break the taboo through awareness raising and thus preserve the physical integrity of young girls in the diaspora and protect them. the letter of protection emphasises the legal consequences for anyone who intends to perform an incision. it also serves as a shield for migrant families who cannot escape the grip of the family when they return to their homeland or when they send their daughters on holiday to their home country. it is a strong signal to inform communities about the illegality of the practice of fgm and its harmful effects on the health of women and girls who are victims. it is necessary to raise awareness among the communities that practice mutilation without discriminating against them, without stigmatizing them. the letter of protection can be an effective instrument for eradicating mutilation in europe. it will strengthen the directive, and i hope that this letter of protection will be emulated and introduced in all the member states of the european union.
i have to say, madam president, one in three women worldwide and in europe experiences physical or sexual violence, most often by her own partner. and now we have digital violence. women are being targeted through digital media, insulted, exposed, isolated, abused, blackmailed and threatened to silence them. and we have a powerful instrument to end violence against women worldwide: the istanbul convention. and we are working here in the eu on a directive to combat gender-based violence. but unfortunately, the istanbul convention is now the target of a global campaign by far-right and right-wing organizations, parties and governments to incite people against ratifying the convention. and i fear that this is exactly what will happen in this house against the directive on combating gender-based violence. i would therefore ask all democratic colleagues here and all democratic governments, especially in the council, to make a very strong commitment to the protection of women against violence and to a strong directive. because women's rights are human rights. and we're not going to let them take that away from us.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already done so. tunisia is undoubtedly one of the european union's most important partners in the region. but tunisia has unfortunately taken the wrong path since president saied came to power, namely the path to dictatorship. the constitution that has just been adopted - with a participation of less than 30%, if one is to believe the official figures at all - is illegitimate and confers on the president a wealth of power that exists only in dictatorships. what happens next? in the aftermath, just 57 judges were removed from office for refusing to investigate and judge political opponents. against politicians fighting for democracy in tunisia. i stand in solidarity with these judges, my very honored ladies and gentlemen, and it is a disgrace that a president can just remove these judges. the rules for the elections to be held in december are changed by presidential decree, so that political parties can no longer participate properly, can no longer nominate their candidates and the elections become a farce by allowing only the puppets of the president to be elected. ladies and gentlemen, we must support tunisia. yes, we stand in solidarity with the tunisian people. but we must not support tunisia's path to dictatorship.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. tunisia gained its independence in 1956 from a european country, france. this means that the tunisians are primarily responsible for what is happening in tunisia. i am always surprised at the way in which the european parliament seems to know better how to govern tunisia. it is not our task to do so, but our task can only be to represent our interests in bilateral relations and to take account of the stability of the whole region. the stability of the whole region is not taken into account when the government is destabilised, when it is criticized unilaterally and when it is overlooked that the crisis in tunisia is also a consequence of the sanctions policy we have adopted in response to the russian intervention in ukraine. in this respect, i think we have to learn to be a little less eurocentric - not to say neo-colonial - and to question ourselves. we are not helping tunisia by destabilising its government, but by respecting its autonomy and independence and by understanding that the economy needs an end to war and sanctions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. viktoria and bogdan, a young couple from kiev, were expecting their first child. both were killed two days ago along with their unborn child. the drone that hit her house was probably from belarus. so, to the point: lukashenko and putin are no different in their crimes. we must confront them with the same means. lukashenko is terrorizing his own people. he brutally crushed the 2020 democratic protests, imprisoned thousands, tortured and killed many. he too has betrayed his country and completely abandoned it to the putin regime for his own maintenance of power. against the declared will of the people, he allowed russian troops and missiles into belarus, only to terrorize and murder the ukrainian population. at the same time, lukashenko is also a coward. his army is not actively involved in the war against ukraine. but not for moral reasons, but because he is afraid that if the belarusian army is ordered to march on kiev, it could turn its tanks on minsk itself. and lukashenko is also a notorious liar. he claims to have won the elections two years ago, not to participate in the war and to only want the best for his people all lies. in the end, we hope that lukashenko and putin will share the same fate and face the same court. the sooner the better.
madam president, dear friends, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, we are talking about belarus today and many things have been already said, but i wanted to emphasise one thing: this is the new three—fold structure of the belarusian regime. the unholy trinity of belarus as we see it now. first of all, belarus is a dictatorship, and we know the names, some of them were mentioned here today. second, belarus is an aggressor power. it is a war power, and it is a responsible power in this war, the brutal war that we are experiencing. number three, belarus is also no more an independent subject of international law, belarus is an occupied territory, and this we have to recognise. from that, we follow three things. we should double and quadruple our support for the belarusian opposition, civil society and the officially recognised and elected president and her team. this was already mentioned here. number two, we should make it very clear that a special seat will be reserved for lukashenko in the tribunal against russian crimes. this is something that we have to do now. we have to design the tribunals so that belarus is also covered by them. number three, we should cut our ties with lukashenko, because not only he is a criminal against his own citizens, he is also not an independent state anymore.
i have to say, madam president, at the beginning of october, the heads of government of all european and caucasian states, as well as turkey, but not russia and belarus, met in prague for the first meeting of the european political community (epc), a new institution new, but its purpose is unclear and what exactly distinguishes it from the council of europe. the only issue is the war in ukraine. was the purpose to condemn illegal wars of aggression? why was the president of azerbaijan present when he launched an aggressive war against armenia? the eu is also divided on the issue of unity with russia, as hungary and macron have shown. and better franco-british relations don't need 41 other heads of government. it was really just a handshake and a non-binding smile in times of trouble. the gasoline and fuel for the prague trip could have been saved certainly more sensible in view of the energy crisis.
mr president, dear commission, dear council, we are all in this together. if one producer is left out of the world food system, as ukraine is, at least in part, then the entire global food system is in trouble. you can see the toned legs it's on. the majority of global outages are due to climate change, including in europe this year. we have a decline in grain production due to drought, which is caused by climate change. in this situation, when many parts of the world are threatened with famine, can we still be responsible for putting 20% of our grain production into the tank? can we still be responsible for feeding 60% of our grain to animals? i'm not talking about keeping animals in grasslands, mountain meadows or northern regions. that's the right place. only the grain should be used for human nutrition, especially when famine threatens. we must be aware that we are losing hundreds of thousands of hectares of land every year because of unfortunately destructive monoculture, industrial agriculture, because of soil erosion, desertification of the regions, soil salinity. and in a world with a growing world population, to ruin our soil like this, i think it's irresponsible. so agroecology and organic farming!
mr president, good news. i come from ireland. we are number one in the world when it comes to the global food security index. fantastic news. brilliant news. especially when you come from a country where we were scattered all around the planet because of a famine. but i have to question what does food security mean? in ireland we eat lots of potatoes, but we don’t produce enough for ourselves, we import 72 000 tonnes; 47 000 tonnes of onions, 23 000 tonnes of cabbage. we like flour, we eat lots of bread, we don’t produce our flour. we like sugar, we don’t produce our sugar. we don’t produce any of it. we do produce lots of dairy and lots of beef, but we can’t actually feed our own animals. now remember, we’re number one when it comes to global food security. thomas waitz said something very interesting there. one country. one country, and we virtually have chaos in the world when it comes to food security. so what is food security or is it different? are we looking for food sovereignty? because remember, we’re number one in ireland and we can’t actually feed ourselves. how the hell is that security?
mr president, commissioner, fellow members, we’ve all seen the dramatic increase in food prices. unfortunately for some, increased food prices mean unaffordability and mean hunger. two hundred million people already face food insecurity, and that’s only set to get worse. there are a number of things that are critical to address in food security. the un-brokered black sea grain deal has been a great success. seven million tonnes of grain have been exported from the ukraine, and have been vital for the vulnerable. however, this deal is set to end in november. it is vital that we ensure that this deal continues and that the true value of this deal will only be really achieved in the long term. we cannot let putin link vital humanitarian action with economic sanctions. equally, fertiliser must pass, it plays a very important part: 60% of food production is dependent on fertiliser. essentially, if with no fertiliser, with no food. but it’s not just about the war. we have other challenges as well in the longer term: climate, sustainability, a growing population. we must act now. in the long term, we must create a sustainable model. we must recognise the critical interplay between food, energy and sustainability. we must invest in new technologies that will help us address the challenges. and we must continue to use fertiliser, pesticides and other aid to production in a sensible, sustainable way. and critically, in the short term, we must continue to get our grain exports out of ukraine, and we must ensure that we have fertiliser next spring. communication, words are not enough; we need action now, not next spring, if we are to ensure our food security in the coming weeks, months and years ahead.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is no peace with hunger, we all know that. and fighting hunger is the number one peace policy. but in the shadow of this crisis we are having, in the shadow of it, party politics is being made. it is said that hunger will be satisfied if we in europe do away with 4% of the arable land. it is said that hunger will be satisfied if we do not observe the order of the fruits. i think that's hypocritical. sustainable food systems are built on a much broader foundation. for example, we must finally get rid of our soybean imports. sustainable food systems cannot rely on massive imports. it's not working. we have to get away from having our hands on other people's surfaces. we live off other people's land. why isn't this being discussed? we need to support countries to feed themselves. of course, there are times when food needs to be supplied from outside. but usually it has to be that countries feed themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. hunger can only be satisfied locally. you have to understand that and then act on it.
mr president, dear colleagues, ms commissioner, mr minister, food security became a topical issue for the eu and for all world leaders. the situation that would have already been hard due to the impact of climate change and covid—19 pandemic is now even more severe due to the russian aggression and the disruption of crop markets. the european union must ensure food security for european citizens and also support countries that do not have sufficient resources. according to the world food programme, it is estimated that by 2022, up to 345 million people will be food insecure. war is the reason why we fear that the situation will get worse. i am convinced that green agriculture policies must not go aside. the goals of the green deal and farm to fork are long term. however, since february this year, ensuring food security is again a crucial issue, and we should temporarily relax some environmental measures. i agree with postponing obligations to rotate crops to leave 4% of the arable land set aside or to reduce the amount of used pesticides. we call for using new genomic techniques in european agriculture. it is the duty for the european commission. of course, we all know that peace is the precondition of food security and we all should thank and support our european farmers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have heard many aspects of world hunger today. but i think we really need a stronger change of mind and, above all, real and genuine action to get us there. over 800 million people are hungry worldwide, but we have record food production on this planet, dizzying food waste, wars, conflicts that fuel poverty and instability, climate change, rural populations living with poor working conditions and no social security, and, and, and. the list of world hunger is unfortunately still long and extensive and shameful. so change of mind and proactive action. food is for people, not for speculation. we need the recognition and support of local food producers. and other keywords: towards more agro-ecology, the expansion of land rights, the appreciation of the role of women in local production and the expansion of their rights, a return to traditional seeds. and finally, we need to make agriculture attractive again to young people in the global south. the problem of hunger is and remains huge. we have a lot of solutions in our toolbox. what we need is much more consistent action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we need more agriculture, not less. yes, i share this assessment of prof. dr. dr. rademacher of the club of rome. because if we leave the mega-theme of global food security to the ideologues and activists, we're moving further and further away from the human right to food for all. the world is growing by 9 million people every month. we cannot do this with more bans and closures, as in europe, for example. let's just trust our farmers more. it takes more science, more innovation, more investment for sustainable agriculture, for resilient agricultural food systems. the availability of fertilisers and plant protection products for healthy plants, their efficient use and also the reduction of food losses and waste are essential. we must avoid a crisis in access to food becoming a crisis in food availability, says the fao director-general. rising food prices for consumers and rising input prices for farmers are already having a devastating impact on global food security. all the more reason to ensure and promote food availability and affordability for all. the european commission must finally take responsibility for this, and do so wholeheartedly and not half-heartedly.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in a survey, 64% of ukrainians polled had named taras shevchenko, the national poet and founder of modern ukrainian literature, as the most outstanding personality of all time. this is a very striking illustration of the importance of cultural identity and heritage for the self-concept of ukrainians, both during and in spite of the war. but the entire cultural ecosystem is massively threatened. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of cultural property. among the war dead are many artists. countless others have been forced to flee war, to try to work abroad, to collect donations, to organize relief transports, and to be tireless ambassadors for their countries. but many are still on the ground, trying to continue to play their important social and civic role and to somehow restore a semblance of normality. the cultural sector is in dire need of our short-term crisis aid. cultural property needs to be protected, war crimes against it documented, and the independent cultural scene is about survival. we should support art projects that will focus on social reconstruction in the communities, including through trauma management. the cultural sector should be strongly considered in the context of reconstruction, in particular as it can make an important contribution to a sustainable and transformative and inclusive future for ukraine. in this spirit, ukrainian artists have expressed to me their hope that they too can contribute to this rebuild better and that with the support of the eu, a reform process of the ukrainian cultural sector will gain new impetus.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the report, ladies and gentlemen, shows once again the hypocritical approaches of the eu. if you just read through this, this report says that the goal of the russian invasion of ukraine is to destroy, to erase ukrainian culture and european culture and common identity. you have to ask, please, what is our common identity? i think this is about the ukrainian people, and the ukrainian people have, of course, an independent ukrainian identity. so putin was not really about that, and to be honest, we didn't need putin to destroy european culture and erase common identities. the eu does this much better by continuously and progressively improving its competence. in principle, we are not only dealing with a gender mainstreaming, but also a cultural mainstreaming. and this is the equalization of all cultures, but it has nothing to do with national or cultural identity. the ukrainian cultural identity should be integrated into the common identity in the future, when the eu is established. and this common identity dear ukrainian people, listen carefully! is first and foremost climate mania, lgbtqi i can't even pronounce it right diversity, tolerance and acceptance where tolerance and acceptance does not refer to your values, the ukrainian values, but to everyone else in the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them. they also run off the highways, driven by the madness of saving the world, endangering lives, here and now, and possibly decades from now, because of some imagined super-gau crisis - complete madness here too. and then, of course, we must not forget that russian disinformation must also be fought. and then you have to say: what is the eu doing first of all? yes, she's doing exactly what putin did when he tried to prevent disinformation, which is he's blocked channels. this is now our understanding in the eu to fight disinformation. and on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have enough to do on our own doorstep. i mean, the european commission is the headquarters of the producers of disinformation. i just remember this unspeakable, yes, injection campaign that was going on. as i said, dear ukrainians, if you really care about your cultural identity, run as fast and as far as you can ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, war is a horror that leaves nothing but destruction in its wake. the most serious, no doubt, is the destruction of human lives, of homes, and the hunger it leaves behind. but, also, war has a very serious impact on culture and on heritage, which is our history, our memory as a species. since the russian invasion, ukraine's heritage has become the most threatened on the continent. as of today, unesco has already registered over 200 cultural sites destroyed or damaged as a result of the attacks. a loss that cannot be repaired. the european institutions must take a stand to stop this loss and take action to preserve, restore and rebuild. we must define the role of the european union in the reconstruction of the destroyed heritage in ukraine. we must put the political will to prevent this loss. a month ago we adopted here the report on the new european bauhaus, a text which states that the new bauhaus must contribute to the reconstruction of the monuments and cities destroyed by the invasion. all this with the participation of the ukrainian cultural and creative sectors, which have been so badly affected and need our support. the new bauhaus can and should take on an external dimension to help ukraine in this task. historical heritage is the sum of the traces left by previous generations on the territory, it is the cultural memory of past generations. that's why we can't let the russian invasion fold the ukrainian people's history. we share with ukraine history and past experiences and the historical heritage must be used as a bridge to strengthen the ties of the attacked ukrainian people with the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today we're going to discuss culture, values and identity. the russian war effort in ukraine is becoming increasingly unrestrained and deliberately targets civilian actors. we were shocked to learn that yuri kerpatenko, the leader of the chamber orchestra of the occupied city of kherson, had been murdered in his apartment. he refused to participate in a russian propaganda concert. he paid for that steadfastness with his life. further proof that russian soldiers are deliberately killing civilians. the aim is to destroy the cultural heritage of ukraine. it is now up to us to put a stop to this inhuman behaviour of the russians and to support the cultural sector. we therefore need not only humanitarian aid and comprehensive military support, but also targeted support from the cultural sector of ukraine. the aim is to document, digitize and protect the preservation of ukraine's cultural identity and cultural works.
(following a speech outside the microphone in the chamber) mrs chabaud, i am sorry, but that is not possible because you have already spoken before. (reaction outside the microphone in the chamber) ah, it's marked as an on-demand intervention, but it's actually a blue-card intervention. who is it addressed to? (the president cut off the microphone) we can take the blue card intervention if it is accepted, but later, after the interventions on request, okay?
mr kelly, will you accept a blue-card question? (mr kelly agreed)
the debate is closed.
i am really sorry for our esteemed visitors but there is now going to be a break until voting time at 12.00. perhaps you can take a coffee in the meantime ... (the sitting was suspended at 11.35).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, last sunday, 227 out of the 290 members of the iranian parliament called on the iranian judiciary to severely punish protesters and political prisoners, including with executions. so people in the streets, people in prisons are beaten up, are raped, are killed – not by criminals but by people who claim to be the government of this wonderful country. and, colleagues, this needs a very strong signal from the european union that we don’t accept this, including targeted sanctions against exactly these 227 members of parliament. and we cannot have this debate some other time, colleagues, because the council is right now preparing the sanctions package to be issued by the foreign affairs council next monday. and, as of now, this package has only 31 individuals. so we have to have this debate this week and not in two weeks or in a month. so now it was brought to our attention that apparently we cannot have this debate this week because neither the high representative nor the council would be able to be present. i mean, dear colleagues, imagine this in a national context! a parliament cannot have a crucial debate because the officials responsible are not showing up. we should not accept this and i really call on the council or the hr / vp to make themselves available for this debate today or tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is good to prepare for the next winter, and many of the measures discussed by the european council will not come into force until the next winter. but it's also very bold to say that we're already well positioned, that we're all going to make it through this winter. many do not know how to pay their bills. energy-intensive companies have signed up for short-time work, small businesses are facing a wall. that is why energy prices must now be brought down, and purchasing power must be strengthened, and that is why the surpluses must be properly exploited and used throughout europe to support the weakest. that's not happening in europe right now. and that is why the citizens cannot warm up this winter to the fact that they will be supported next winter. we need action in europe now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now, and we need it now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european council's demands on energy are something that can only surprise anyone with a healthy sense of reason. the solutions are to be more energy savings and even more non-baseload renewable energy. but it is precisely the latter that our dependence on cheap russian gas has brought us. so it is their own crazy green ideology plus sanctions policy plus energy shortages and price increases that has led to the energy crisis and is doing the exact opposite, which is to say more co2 emissions. it is not because we are now seeing a coal renaissance in the eu. china also burns more coal than the rest of the world, partly to supply us with batteries and raw materials for supposedly zero-emission electric cars. it is not green flat energy, but nuclear energy that is the energy of future industrial nations. and the fact that the eu buys russian lng, which is ten times more expensive and emits ten times more co2 than pipeline gas bypassing china, is also preferred to remain silent.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, the absolute urgency of moving away from fossil fuels is now finally visible to everyone. i say the energy charter treaty is the most problematic example of a structure that keeps us locked into fossil fuels, that makes us slow down the urgently—needed transition. dear commissioner, even under the reformed ect, three private arbitrators will still have full power to condemn states to pay billions for the offence of curbing climate change. existing investments in fossil fuels will stay protected for at the very least 10 more years, a period that can easily add up to 20 years with ratification time, and investors will still be able to get compensation for hypothetical lost future profits. we are continuing to give public insurance to stranded assets. if the modernisation ever enters into force for us, it will be as much of a trap as the current treaty, with the 20—year sunset clause remaining, which you also criticised just right now. in the current state of climate emergency these weaknesses of the modernised ect are not acceptable. dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i believe it is time to be bold and reconsider the eu’s membership of this treaty. i also think this parliament should be very clear on this demand in the resolution that we will negotiate for the next plenary.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what would a world without the so-called islamic regime look like? this is exactly the question i asked iranians on twitter after 227 members of the iranian parliament asked for their execution. i got thousands of replies. i could use my real name on twitter. i could walk in the streets without fear of being beaten up. i could finally go back home to my homeland, hug my old mother. ukrainians wouldn’t be killed by our drones. a peaceful middle east. 14 000 iranians who took to the streets for these demands are at the moment at imminent threat of execution. and the president of iran is no stranger to that. he has killed in 1988. he has slaughtered thousands of political prisoners in iran already. it is not on us to change the regime. but, colleagues, it is on us to be very clear that those who fight for political freedoms in the streets of iran have our full solidarity and support. we need to sanction all 227 members of the parliament who made this outrageous call to execute political prisoners. and we need to designate the revolutionary guards as what they are – a terror organisation. we need to convene a special session of the un human rights council to set up a reporting and accountability mechanism. and dear colleagues, each and every one of us has to do everything possible to make sure that those dying at the moment in iran every single day, for a different future, do not die for nothing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not in iran, historical events are taking place: a popular uprising, a revolutionary movement that has set out to discard the old, oppressive and reactionary, to replace it with something new. how far the new one will go is still unclear. but it's already a lot to gain. it's about self-determination: women and men in the city and the countryside take to the streets, despite martial violence young and old. workers are also organizing in the factories. our full solidarity goes to the iranian people, who have had their brutal experiences in the past - with the regime at home, but also with external interventions, such as those of the cia, which has helped the present regressive regime in the first place. it is clear to all that the regime will take even bloodier action if the popular movement retreats. that is why international solidarity from below is now crucial to reject the domestic geopolitical interventions as well as to demand really effective measures against the regime. the people in iran show us that resistance is life; they say: jin jiyan azadi!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioners, this week because of cop, climate dominates again the narrative and the minds of prime ministers and chancellors, and that’s great. but obviously it’s not enough to just have speeches without clear action behind them. we need immediate and concrete action. and today, colleagues, and tomorrow is a point where we can actually make this happen. right here with repowereu we can ensure that we act on climate. how? we can make sure that there’s not additional money pumped into oil infrastructure. and we can do much better than throwing processed food at rembrandts and monets, because here we can actually vote on stopping billions of eu money flowing into the hands of the oil lobby and the oil industry. so this is where it counts and so i ask you, colleagues, please uphold the ban on any money flowing into oil infrastructure, because here today we have the chance to actually make this happen. it is true that we need to ensure energy security, but don’t let yourselves be fooled: we need to be absolutely clear that the current energy crisis does not require investment in fossil fuel infrastructure that will be operational in five years. this does not help the current energy crisis, and we need to make sure that everyone understands that. solving the current energy crisis means a fast transition to sustainable and renewable energy, and with our votes tomorrow we can make sure that this happens. so thanks a lot for the good cooperation to the rapporteurs. thank you for the positive negotiations that we had, and i look forward to the vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not since angela merkel, germany has pursued a truly fantastic energy policy: away from domestic coal and nuclear energy, towards solar and wind energy. the result: dependence on russian natural gas. now the eu commission is setting up a grant fund, called repowereu, starting at €20 billion, to reduce dependence on russian gas. the foreseeable long-term cost: a multiple of 20 billion. president von der leyen wants to distribute the money according to the corona fund key. that means germany gets little; the european union is not a mere economic entity. the european court of auditors replies: wrong. the purpose of reducing dependence on russia should be to give more to germany, which is extremely dependent. so european solidarity means that germans pay for the failure of other euro states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the eu parliament even wants repowereu funds to be allowed to be invested only in weather-dependent solar and wind energy, not fossil fuels and nuclear energy. that means instead of russia, we'll be dependent on the whims of helios and aiolos, the sun and wind gods. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the building and resilience facility is a major european achievement, because it also promotes the very investment needed for the digital and green transformation that we so badly need. the war in europe and the energy crisis must not jeopardize these investments, because we in europe want to become independent of dictators and of fossil energy. and no, despite the positive aspects of repowereu, it doesn't make sense to use the new chapter in the building and resilience facility plans to waste taxpayer money and put money into long-term fossil projects. in the case of new investments, we must maintain the integrity of the emissions trading system and generate non-financial resources through the auctioning of additional pollution allowances. a long-term co2 price signal is particularly important in these times of crisis for the ecological-social transformation, for decarbonisation, for a future of europe where sustainability and the competitiveness of companies come together. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question under the 'blue card' procedure)
blue-card reply. – thank you very much for the question. actually i didn’t understand it because i wasn’t able to hear the interpretation, so would you be so kind as to summarise it in two phrases, maybe in english. i would be grateful for that.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. croatia has made a real effort and has managed to meet the criteria for accession to the schengen area in a very short time. and i am very, very happy that we can make this decision today, that the four million croats can become part of the schengen area and that croatia becomes part of the schengen area. this means that not only can four million croats travel within the schengen area, but it also means that europeans can travel to croatia without a visa. and anyone who knows the traffic jams at the border in the summer will be glad that it is now easier to go to croatia. and this step, to have not only the freedom of schengen but also to have the euro on 1 january 2023, is a really big decision for croatia, it is also a big decision for europe and an important, a big success. freedom of movement is the greatest asset we have within the european union. and that is why it is so important that we follow the rules we have in europe. and one of those rules is that fundamental rights are respected in the european union. and what we have sometimes criticized about croatia - that there have been violations of fundamental rights against migrants at the border - we can control even better in the schengen area at this point. and that is why it is good that croatia is a member, and the next step is that romania and bulgaria are also members of the schengen area, because they also meet the criteria.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not let me be clear: i think that this is a great decision for our house - the european parliament - for croatia, but also for the european union as a whole, that we are making a great decision, that we are paving the way for croatia to become a member of the schengen area. it is that the european family is growing closer together. the fact is that for many millions of people in europe, there are more freedoms. you don't have to say a lot of bad things about it, because it's just a good decision. on the other hand, the area of security, freedom and justice that the schengen area represents is also an area in which we must ensure that the law applies - the law also applies at the external borders for people who are fleeing, who have earned the rule of law procedures, who have earned the rule of law at the borders. i am therefore pleased that in our report to the council we also reiterate the need for this independent human rights monitoring mechanism. it can be an example for many countries. it may also be that we will succeed - by this reporting from croatia to the commission and also to the european parliament - in shedding more light on the situation and finally ending the pushbacks at the external borders. i am therefore pleased to welcome croatia as soon as possible into the area of freedom, security and justice, including justice for the people on our external borders who are fleeing there.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, for far too long politicians from past generations have seen video games as an irrelevant field, as a weird hobby for freaks, nerds and geeks that needs little to no attention or support from politics. well, scrap all of this. this time is over. the gaming industry is already bigger than hollywood, with a revenue of over eur 23 billion each year. half of all europeans consider themselves to be gamers of some sort. so let it be known that a new generation of politicians have taken this topic very serious and that actual gamers sit at the negotiation table. thankfully we didn’t start a console war, but instead brought together the interests of all gamers, be they the pcmr consoles or even mobile, we brought all of them together. the video game sector brings massive benefits for our whole society. video games are great for educational diversity, bringing new learning methods to fascinate students for science, history and much more. video games allow for inclusive participation in culture, education and in our whole society, and europe must strengthen the industry, especially individuals and smes. it creates jobs and opportunities, bringing together artistic techniques and innovative technologies. but we also need to fight for a good gaming experience for all. that means inclusion, protection of minors and vulnerable groups. and in this light it is important that we clearly fight against loot boxes. the current use of loot boxes creates gaming addictions, threatening children, people with addiction problems, creating a harmful environment, and it’s just bad for the gaming experience as a whole. with this report we will start to outlaw the use of loot boxes. today is the start of a new era, an era in which we value the european gaming sector and start harnessing the multiple benefits that video games provide for our society. it’s a very good start.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. italy and greece have the highest debt burden per capita in the oecd. the other most indebted oecd countries are also mostly euro­zone countries. thanks to the coronavirus, the war in ukraine, the energy crisis and the ecb's easy monetary policy, debt in the euro area will continue to rise. the ecb tries to reduce debt by inflation. the result: mass impoverishment, devaluation of small savings and increase of large fortunes. the only way to really repair our public finances is to stop migration, end green energy policy and a wealth tax for countries with high private wealth. but does anyone here want that? i'm not sure. so germany will continue to pay, because the german state is richer than others because its citizens are poorer. the problem is that eventually the germans will run out of money. what's the point?
mr president, racism is a reality that affects a whole life. it is contrary to our action plan, which we have adopted to abolish all forms of discrimination within the european union. many civil society organisations have informed us of the discrimination faced by people from minority backgrounds. the inequalities in treatment are increasingly large among the different refugees who flee the same war in ukraine: integration and welcome in the host countries are thus denied to people of african origin in particular. thousands of refugees face cumbersome administrative procedures and a discriminatory european migration policy. some of them reported abuse, and the women told us that they had endured sexual violence during their flight. this is unacceptable. the european union is a party to the convention on the rights of the child, which was adopted by the un general assembly in december 1995. the implementation of eu anti-discrimination legislation and financial support for groups fighting racism are needed. furthermore, data collection through a survey, for example would justify our action. the european union must guarantee humanist values, which are the basis of democracy and the rule of law, in an intersectional approach.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you honourable members, as we have heard this morning, racism remains too present i would say in european society and it must be addressed at all levels of governance through different measures and by effectively consulting with relevant stakeholders. i thank evin incir and the european parliament for this important report and for remaining a key and attentive partner in the european commission’s efforts to fight racism and to deliver a union of equality for all. let us continue our work upon the fundamental principles and values of our european union to protect its people, to grow stronger, and to shape a better future for generations to come, the european commission’s efforts to fight racism and to deliver a union of equality for all. let us continue our work upon the fundamental principles and values of our european union to protect its people, to grow stronger, and to shape a better future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 10 november 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. ai-based systems have a high social and economic impact, but they can also lead to human rights violations and deepen structural discrimination and inequality. new technological and legal developments in the algorithmic analysis and use of big data pose a high risk of preventive policing in immigration control and law enforcement, which disproportionately affects people of color, as it reproduces prejudices already existing in our society. the algorithm shall not be used in a discriminatory manner. i believe that social media platforms have significantly strengthened the fight against racism and discrimination in recent years, but this fight must continue.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bart groothuis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to achieve a high common level of cybersecurity in the union and repealing directive (eu) 2016/1148 (com ((2020) 0823 c9-0422/2020 2020/0359 ((cod)) (a9-0313/2021).
rapporteur. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, it is with pride i stand before you here today in brussels, the result of two years, almost two years, of fierce debates, hundreds of consultations with so many stakeholders from around the world. it resulted in the best cybersecurity legislation this continent has yet seen. and today, we are not just voting on that legislation that significantly enhances europe’s cybersecurity – it makes it a safer place to work, do business and live. we are also introducing a new mindset in europe, a new phase in our common european digital future. from pioneering to professionalisation, from cybersecurity as a niche subject to making it chefsache – a good german word. the ceos matter, and that goes for commissioners and also for ministers. and most important, from reactive information-sharing after an incident, which is still important, to proactive prevention and actively stopping new accidents from occurring. europe has suffered enormous costs of being attacked on an almost industrial scale, yet still we invest 41% less than our american businesses and the sharing of information in the cybersecurity community from which i stem, has been hampered. this legislation is reversing that. but meanwhile, because of the encouragement of the kremlin, russian hackers, criminal ransomware groups are trying to weaken economic wellbeing and economic structures. with the support of beijing, many dozens of hacker groups try to steal our intellectual property and trade secrets to weaken our economies and strengthen theirs. many of this is not directly seen with the eye or is in the media that often. it often happens that companies do not wish to go public, but it happens every day and that’s why we ask critical infrastructure to invest. that’s why we make a sound legal basis for information-sharing between governments, businesses, experts and countries outside the eu. and for those who think this is expensive, remember that the american credit rating agency moody’s recently valued the nis2 and said it’s credit-positive for doing business in europe. although this is the best cybersecurity legislation this continent has yet seen, let us not congratulate ourselves too much. here’s what still needs to be done. first, if ransomware is an instrument of, let’s say, foreign policy of the kremlin, then technical controls like this legislation will not stop russia. we have to indict the hackers, track them, make sure when they travel, they get incarcerated behind bars. we need diplomatic and counterintelligence offensives as well. secondly, yes, the nis2 asks, demands that member states put forward an active defence cyber posture. it means that, in practice, cybersecurity centres will have to cooperate with internet service providers to block malicious domains when people accidentally click on it, because it does happen. thirdly, supply chain security. yes, within the nis2 there is a good possibility for reviewing risky software and hardware vendors. but we need new legislation to protect us. when countries with an offensive intellectual property theft programme directed against us and their companies enter our markets, we need legislation. fourth, our sub-sea infrastructure. the nis2 marks optic fibre cables below sea as vital infrastructure, but the plans to protect it are hardly sufficient yet. in the defence and subcommittee and industry committee, we will put forward new plans to do just that. last but not least, colleagues, let me also take this opportunity to say that the last european cybersecurity vendor – endpoint security antivirus – that we have is european, and let’s keep it that way, commissioner. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs present here for their constructive political work on this file. the staff – i will buy you a drink afterwards! but let me just mention the most important people that have to be mentioned today in this plenary room: the cybersecurity community to whom this work is dedicated. i came to brussels to make cybersecurity legislation, to create a safe place to work and to do business. that safer place is mainly the result of the hard work of those many cybersecurity professionals out there. and to all you computer nerds out there: we hear, we see you, we are keeping you enabled to do your business. you keep us safe, we see you and we support you. now, let’s vote today on this important legislation and thanks for the good cooperation, everyone.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it’s a wonderful start for this debate, as we just heard from the rapporteur. the debate today about the nis2 directive, i think it is an important debate and i want wholeheartedly to thank the european parliament for taking the topic of cybersecurity so seriously. so let me start by congratulating indeed the rapporteur, bart groothuis, his team and the shadow rapporteurs for this rigorous and very thorough work, and also for your constructive approach during the entire legislative process, because it has allowed, i think, a very successful conclusion on this important file in a swift manner. the politically agreed text shows the determination of the european parliament, of member states, to deliver an ambitious and future—proof european framework for cybersecurity, where europe can lead by example. the implementation of the directive will be key in effectively addressing the challenges brought by rapid digital developments and the constantly developing number of severe cyberattacks. the agreed directive will reinforce the applicable security and incident—reporting obligations for companies while expanding the scope. i think that is really important that new sectors become part of it and also that new types of services ensure a coherent and harmonised cross sectoral approach to cybersecurity. so we will have the streamlined legal obligations for essential, important entities in our single market. i think also in the run—up to the celebration of the 30 years of the single market, this marks a milestone to make sure that this single market that increasingly becomes a digital single market has the necessary cybersecurity provisions. and nis2 introduces the possibilities of a coordinated eu supply chain risk assessment based on the very positive experiences that we have had with the 5g toolbox. and here i want to call on your support, because we still need to encourage the few member states who have not yet adopted necessary restrictions on high—risk suppliers, because they ought to do so without delay. it’s not sufficient to pass legislation. it is needed to put legislation into effect and is a matter of urgency. and following that, also let me underline the importance of this directive in view of the latest geopolitical developments. we have seen recent attacks on critical infrastructure in the union. the legal transposition of the directive –well, that will take its agreed time. but the commission believes that we should front—load, as much as possible, the benefits already now on a voluntary basis, because people who attack us, they do not wait for transposition of a directive, if they even understand or appreciate that legal wording. so we need to see action as fast as possible. and this is what we have proposed for now a draft council recommendation on the security of critical infrastructure. of course, we do hope that member states share our sense of urgency. as i see it, the european parliament and the commission have a common approach to this and a sense of urgency to make sure that we are well protected. because the thing is that there is no european defence without cyber defence. it doesn’t exist. we have seen it with the russian attack on the viasat satellite. here you can deeply effect military forces by attacking civilian infrastructure. the cyber defence policy, therefore, will put forward new instruments reinforcing our collective ability to address cyber threats from early detection of possible attacks to deterring future threats. because i completely agree with the rapporteur, this agreement on the nis2 directive is a major achievement, but we need to push forward as fast as possible on next urgent matters. so we will propose to increase cooperation on three main fronts: cooperation between member states’ military, cooperation between civil and military, and cooperation between the private and the public sector. we cannot protect ourselves without cooperating on it. and we will also propose to use eu instruments and policies with dual use, such as our investment in cyber research and innovation, or on skills that can benefit military actors as well. the commission welcomes warmly the vote today on the agreed nis2 text. it maintains the overall ambition of the original proposal and we are convinced that this text will enable us to raise the growing and pressing cyber—security challenge towards our economies, towards our societies, and make it obvious that protecting is cheap: facing the risk, paying for the attacks, these costs would be astronomical.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - madam president! i'm not going to tell you. last time, it was crazy again. a piece of critical infrastructure, the danish state railways, dsb it's called, was attacked by cybercriminals. the attack paralyzed danish train traffic for up to seven hours. and this attack, unfortunately, is not unique. cyberattacks have become commonplace in europe. hospitals, power lines, water systems, everyone is in danger. that is why the proposal we are voting on today - the updating of the eu's cybersecurity rules - is a very, very important step, which the rapporteur and the commissioner have also been talking about. but let's be honest, this is where the real work begins. i need to do the test now. to get the law implemented in the member states. commissioner, you are aware of this; it is up to the member states to put this into practice properly. i would urge all member states to ensure that the legislation is implemented as ambitiously as possible. because let us be honest, we know that implementation is often where the shoe is. it is at this point that all the good intentions we have come up with do not come to fruition. we all need to be involved, not just state boards, but authorities right down to the local level. we need to bring in the companies that have the critical infrastructure. i guess the point is, we never get stronger than the weakest link in the chain. and we need to be aware of that, especially now. so we must follow up on the binding task of raising cybersecurity equally in all member states. now, my friends, let's get this done. thank you for speaking.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, the growing threats posed by digitalisation and the surge of cyberattacks underline that the weakest link is often the one from which a chain reaction can happen, and in an economy increasingly dependent on the digital domain, this can have catastrophic results on our society. we need to increase our collective readiness and ensure that a high common level of cybersecurity is attained across our union. in this proposal i welcome the strengthening of the security requirements, reporting obligations, the more stringent supervisory measures and stricter enforcement requirements, including harmonised sanctions across the european union, and in this work we greens focused on interoperability, transparency, open source and encryption. on these issues we made some important steps forward, but there is more work to be done to ensure that we are fit for fighting the cybersecurity challenges of tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, colleagues, rapporteur, i think we find ourselves today in the face of a full-blown hybrid warfare in europe. just in 2020 alone, cybercrime cost the global economy around eur 1 trillion and this figure continues to rise astronomically day by day. this is why cyber resilience is no longer a topic we can pay lip service to. without it, europe’s economy and security will simply crumble. this updated directive, i believe, is an important step towards better preparing europe’s defences. it must mark the beginning of our journey towards effective cyber resilience, not the end. i believe this is a piece of legislation of an ever-growing jigsaw puzzle and not a silver bullet necessary by itself. we need the resources, we need the skills, but also the political will to ensure intentions become a reality. we also need all europeans, businesses, governments and individuals to work together. and, last but not least, with the growing appetite of some global players such as russia, that are trying to rewrite the rule-based order and attack our critical infrastructure, i believe cybersecurity is also about protecting our democracies. failing to do so will simply hand the keys to the backdoor of our democracies to countries like russia, iran or china.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear colleagues, european businesses and governments every day need to deliver essential services to citizens in a safe and trusted manner. in the face of increased exposure, escalating cyber warfare campaigns fuelled by geopolitical tensions and wars, but also mounting pressure of private and public entities to prevent, deter and respond to such sophisticated threats, nis2 represents an important breakthrough for our european digital strategy. the cost, indeed, as you said, is going to be unbearable, even astronomical, not just for our economy, but also for our democracy. geopolitical tensions actually from the war and attempts to compromise our essential services like healthcare, they make the political agreement today, and thanks to the rapporteurs for the work that was achieved and also presented. these are proof of the ambition to set stronger risk and incident management measures, harmonise reporting processes and actually futureproof national strategies to basically include also, by widening the scope, public administration entities. so the nis2 directive modernises our rules to secure critical services for society in the economy and provides us with a basis for increased cooperation at all levels actually in the digital transformation. so a major step forward for our resilient digital europe. thank you all and thanks to the rapporteurs for the work we achieved.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner vestager, congratulations and thank you very much, bart. we are working against the clock to ensure that our standards are up to date with this historic moment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. we are going to supplement the directive with the regulation applicable to european institutions and bodies and then we will need to implement it and make it work effectively. for that, the public needs to understand the risks, what we're playing for if this shield doesn't work. our economy is at risk, our health systems may be at risk, our protection as consumers may be at risk, but so is, as has been said here today, our security and the stability of our democracies. ensuring high levels of cybersecurity will serve to defend us against the threats, conflicts and hybrid wars we are embroiled in. we have to do a lot, we have to open our eyes and say something that is very important. i suppose it exists in every language: better to be safe than sorry.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. attacks on security agencies, critical infrastructure like energy pipelines, parliaments and also a lot of businesses. in the north of germany, too, more and more companies are affected: companies with turnover of millions, but also social institutions such as workshops for people with disabilities. cybersecurity has been ignored for far too long. member states have long been reluctant to act together. the result is that we've been very vulnerable for years. but now cybersecurity is not just a nerd issue, it's a very important fundamental issue that affects all of us. and the nis-2 directive is an ambitious directive to create common standards and requirements for cybersecurity. we need to report quickly to the relevant authorities in the event of cyber attacks. and we are particularly pleased that we have managed to agree to extend the scope of application to public administration, social media and also to telecommunications companies. the inclusion of encryption criteria and open source as a means of strengthening cybersecurity has also made its way into the directive. and that is really very welcome. there is one issue that continues to worry us as greens, and that is that in the future, when registering internet domains, there will also be a verification process. this has little to do with cybersecurity in our view, but a lot to do with the fact that freedoms can be compromised. we have always been very critical of this point, we are not satisfied with the result on this point, but overall we will of course vote in favour of the directive and we thank you for the very good and trusting cooperation. i think we're taking a major step forward on cybersecurity.
i am very pleased that the nis 2 directive will be adopted today as a very important element in strengthening cybersecurity. we are sending another message inside and outside the european union that the european union is taking this area seriously and that we have other legislation already in place. i am referring, of course, to the nis for eu institutions and agencies and the product cyber resilience act. cyber threats are on the rise, so we need to gradually address all the vulnerabilities. we all watch what happens on the battlefield, but unfortunately, this war is also being fought in cyberspace. a big thank you goes to bart, our rapporteur, for the excellent cooperation and, above all, for the very good compromise reached with the council. i don't think it's a compromise, it's an attempt to find common ground. sometimes compromise is negative. in this case, i think we've come up with a really good solution. the final winners will be companies important to our society and economy that are more resilient to cyber attacks, but also national cyber authorities and certs better equipped to assist and supervise at home across the union and tasked with working together more effectively. i think that a reasonable boundary has been found as regards the firms that will fall under nis 2 and the requirements for the measures that they should take. it will take a few years for the whole ecosystem to settle down, of course, and for all the actors involved, that will no doubt mean special effort and resources, but also a great school of life. but it's definitely worth it, and i'm convinced that this is a good foundation for the future.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, i also want to start by thanking the rapporteur for the work that has been done. the importance of cybersecurity is undeniable in an increasingly interconnected world and where our relationships are increasingly dependent on the digital world. cybersecurity is a fundamental guarantee and having the joint defence and response capability is an emergency. cyberattacks have become part of our daily lives, whether they are personal, but above all in relation to entities and organisations on which our security and guarantees depend. and it also puts our well-being, our democracy, our data and our privacy at risk. the measures presented are important and are steps in the right direction. however, we would like to see more concrete proposals in some areas, namely to improve the protection, training and knowledge of both consumers and workers in the digital world. we would also like to see more concern about the constraints faced by entities, especially those in rural or more remote areas. and finally, we would like to see more protection for personal data and privacy. however, whatever short or longer steps are taken in this proposal are welcome, because we really need to have a joint response capacity.
madam president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, cyberattacks are a growing threat to us all, especially in light of the digital transformation of our society. in the last four years, the number of incidents has increased more than tenfold. in my country, portugal, media groups, mobile operators, airlines, among others, have already been targeted. the directive we are now discussing aims to improve the response capacity of public and private entities providing essential services, in particular by introducing an obligation for member states to improve their national cybersecurity strategies and also to increase coordination among themselves in the event of major incidents. the commission is also requested to take into account the need to ensure that the member states are able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the information provided by the commission is accurate and reliable. this is a problem for all of us, not least because the greater vulnerability of one member state can have effects throughout the union. we must therefore act quickly and jointly.
madam president, madam vice-president, cybersecurity is a cross-cutting issue for the whole of the european union. the application of a common response pattern is the rational formula for achieving the objectives we seek. the approach of the new directive and this excellent report is of vital strategic importance for the union, its member states, businesses and organisations in general. and it is true that european citizens are also becoming increasingly aware that only a common union response can ensure them high levels of security and confidence. the implementation of the new regulatory framework strengthens the safety and oversight safeguards by combining a risk-based approach and proportionality, including harmonised sanctions across the european union. strengthening security requirements through better communication, less red tape and more transparency is an appropriate way to make each actor more accountable and better able to enhance their own cyber protection. the aim of this pilot project is to develop a european cybersecurity strategy to address the challenges of cybersecurity in europe.
madam president, madam commissioner, i will support this report because reinforcing harmonised, precise and powerful rules to enhance cybersecurity will help us to prevent enormous threats, to stimulate digitalisation processes and to encourage investments that grow under the protection of security and certainty, both material and legal. i think that improving the definitions of what we consider to be an essential and important sector for cybersecurity purposes is a very good idea. the treatment of research and educational institutions, the improvement in the reporting of incidents and the sincere, systematic and permanent exchange of knowledge are also right. finally, i would like to focus on positive incentives, which are just as important as sanctions in raising public awareness. training from an early age on risks and safe behaviour, free tests to ensure the setting up of basic tools and intensive campaigns should be promoted.
madam president, i would like to thank you. cyber threats are increasingly transnational. cooperation is an important part of dealing with it. no single state can guarantee cybersecurity without international cooperation, exchange of information and experience from others. we need more benchmarking that allows states to learn by comparing with others. such positive and inspiring competition between states ultimately makes everyone stronger. it is the only alternative to an otherwise low, average and centralised eu standard which is in practice full of compromises, inefficient bureaucracy and, above all, risks hindering healthy competition between states. i welcome this debate and wonder how we will be able to compete with china and the us in the long term if we always rely on a one-size fits all eu approach, full of compromises. it's high, not decent, cybersecurity that leads to value creation.
madam president, dear colleagues, dear executive vice—president, i would like to start by thanking and congratulating our rapporteur and our whole team for the ability to negotiate this file since adoption in the itre committee some time ago, and to thank the european commission for the good initiative. yes, a common level of cybersecurity in the eu is crucial for the functioning of the internal market, and yes, nis2 needed to widen its scope significantly to include sectors that previously were not considered essential or important due to the mostly increased challenges of cybercrime, espionage or sabotage. and we need to implement this without fragmentation. we need to strengthen the security requirements, address the security of supply chain administrations, streamline reporting obligations, and introduce more stringent supervisory measures and stricter enforcement requirements. of course, all this means investments, and the commission needs to accept that investment in infrastructure is needed and member states need to be supported with that. that’s why the itre committee will stand for more funds for the implementation of the directive and for the eu cybersecurity agency, enisa.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. the eu must be at the forefront of digital developments. it is the key to growth, prosperity and well-being. but with digitisation comes new challenges. we've become more vulnerable to digital threats. for example, as we also heard mr løkkegaard say, our country denmark was recently hit by a hacker attack which brought large sections of train traffic to a standstill. and unfortunately, this is not an isolated case. european companies and public authorities are subject to hacking attacks on a daily basis. we must be equipped to fight the digital threats posed by the world's putinists. especially when it comes to our critical infrastructure. and that is exactly what we are doing with the nice ii directive. the directive sets very specific requirements for the it security of companies, for the security of supply chains and for supplier relations. and it is absolutely necessary. the support for digitalisation is in danger if we do not give citizens, businesses and consumers the assurance that cyber and information security in the eu is at the forefront. thank you for speaking.
madam president, madam vice-president, the european institutions have been making a continuous effort in the field of cybersecurity. the creation, two years ago, of the european centre for industrial, technological competence and research in cybersecurity is a good example of this. now the sri 2 directive goes one step further and how does it do that? by addressing security in supply chains, by strengthening coordination between national authorities and by also simplifying the obligations of companies. the challenges in cybersecurity are, on the other hand, as dynamic as digitisation itself. by 2025, there will be more than 75 billion connected objects, requiring continuous improvement in prevention and surveillance capacity. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr bart groothuis, for his excellent report and also the colleagues in the political groups who have all worked on this dossier. the importance of cyber security is demonstrated by russia's hybrid warfare, which includes computer attacks and massive disinformation campaigns. we need to protect our critical infrastructure and better support our companies - big and small - so that they can also defend themselves against cyber attacks, sabotage and espionage. it is good that we in the european union have a strategy against cyberattacks. and the directive we are voting on this afternoon is a very important part of that strategy. cybersecurity is a community effort. we can only do this better and more efficiently if we work together - companies, administrations, security authorities. that is what we are trying to achieve with this directive. i welcome the fact that the directive introduces a new reporting obligation for cyberattacks, that there is a strict 24-hour deadline within which a notification of a cyberattack must be given. only by working closely and quickly together at european level will we really have a chance of guaranteeing cybersecurity for our citizens and our businesses. thank you to everyone who helped us get this legislation moving today.
madam president, this directive seeks to improve levels of cybersecurity across the european union and it’s a welcome response to some of the most consequential cyberattacks which ireland and europe have faced in recent years, threatening our information and communications technology and supply chains. and commissioner, as you said this morning, you’ve outlined that this is a particularly timely directive given that we’re marking 30 years of our single market, which is a key milestone for the european union. our digital single market is in need of protection, and this cybersecurity law will oblige more organisations and sectors to take measures and to assist in increasing the level of cybersecurity in europe. in may 2021, the irish health system suffered a major ransomware attack, causing all of its it systems nationwide to shut down. it caused chaos for the systems; importantly, it was a very stressful and difficult, challenging situation for the patients. so this directive will strengthen our safeguards now and help bolster against future attacks. so this law will now protect citizens, protect businesses, and ensure that organisations protect themselves against the serious consequences of a cyberattack. and thank you to the rapporteurs for their work.
mr president, vice-president of the commission, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this important directive on network and information security, nis2. this is a very important part of the legislation. we know that cybersecurity is a very central part of the overall security of societies. and now that we've accelerated digitalization, and people, services, and many critical functions have moved online, we're even more vulnerable. it is therefore important to ensure technically that processes in the different member states are in order in the important sectors that we are talking about here: energy, transport, healthcare and digital infrastructure. we need certain common processes and minimum standards on how we ensure that we are prepared for cyber threats and attacks. we will next look at the legislation on hardware and software cybersecurity in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we know that one third of the people working in europe do not have sufficient digital skills. in particular, there is already a very serious shortage of cybersecurity specialists, so it is important to invest in training in this area in all member states, both in basic skills and in expertise.
madam president, madam commissioner, i agree with what you have presented here. now, 30 years after we celebrated the single market, i will speak from the perspective of the single market, but also from the perspective of the citizen. of course, there is no such thing as a secure single market if we do not also have a cyber defence policy. the problem that i see that we have now, is that the 27 states are in different stages of digitization, because we can't disentangle cyber defense policy from digitization, and how can we apply this slogan, nobody is left behind, in practice? how can we help member states that are not yet digitised to the extent that they can intervene in this cyber defence chain? and i think that's where we need to think about targeted funding so that we can really have the complete chain, because one link, if it's missing, obviously this cyberattack is coming that leads to insecurity for both the citizen and for the companies and for the european union as a whole.
madam chairman! i take the floor again because i listened with great interest to what the commissioner told us about the new initiatives in the field of cybersecurity by the commission. and i think it would perhaps be appropriate in this debate to clarify and perhaps elaborate, if the commissioner is willing to do so, what this is about more specifically. we hear rumors, and we're very curious. and, of course, whether the new initiatives require new legislation? and if so, what are we going to look at next in terms of any new legislation. it would be nice to know a little more about it. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this encouraging and also insightful debate. i hope that those who listen, they say, oh my god, maybe we should give up in digitisation since it’s so dangerous. on the contrary, what we are doing today is to make sure that we can get all the benefits from digitisation. we can fight climate change. we can get health benefits. we can get easier from a to b. we can fight pollution in our cities. we can make sure that agriculture is as efficient as possible without harming the soil. the digital opportunities for bettering our lives and increasing the livelihoods at they are enormous – if we make sure that it’s safe. and i very much appreciate the question here posed lastly, because not everyone is at the same level of digitisation. some are newcomers. some have long experience. here, i think we are, to very large degree, helped by the recovery and resilience plans of every country because digitisation is a high priority both when it comes to the rollout of infrastructure and the skills to be provided. but, of course, now when we have the legislation necessary to make sure that it’s all made safe in the same go. so hopefully those who have the potential to leapfrog, they will do that with cybersecurity in mind. what we do today is only the beginning. as it was just mentioned, today we are presenting a european cyber security and defence package. it is military mobility. we have the first generation of action plan here. next generation will ensure that in digitisation of all the paperwork that is still needed for military personnel and equipment to move, so that it can be smooth and swift. that we will also look at the fuel supply chain. you just saw what happened in ukraine. when fuel is lacking, then there is not much mobility. and, of course, insisting and accelerating that infrastructure is built so that it can support heavy duty military vehicles be that bridges, be that be roads. and then, of course, on the cyber security part of the package to make sure that we reinforce the cooperation and that we make sure that when civilian infrastructure is dual use, that we use our resources so much better. so far, no new legislation is foreseen, but a lot of activities that would be ongoing for member states to enable this and for a commission use of funding that has already been set up. the encouragement today, i think, comes from the fact that everyone here has seen this as a major step but as a beginning. because now there is a legal framework, now there’s work to do for member states and for the new sectors in particular. and i hope that everyone has listened to this debate and seen how the representatives of european citizens insist that it is a top priority for this to be safe. we have seen the attacks on the irish health sector, which was just, i think, very timely mentioned. this is absolutely crucial because it is a question of literally life and death. we will do what we can to frontload what is now being decided by parliament and the council because we have seen that this is a matter of urgency. and, with that, i would like to thank everyone who has spoken today and, of course, the rapporteur in particular for being able to gather this support so that we could pass this important legislative text so swiftly.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear commissioner, my commitment in the first term to buy drinks for all shadow rapporteurs and the excellent staff has been reinforced by this debate. so you owe me one! i have two comments to make for the green party and especially the pirate party. they fear that the free and open internet is at stake. well, let me just mention two things here. first, on my personal – my personal – journey to regulate root—level dns servers, my personal journey was to get that out of scope, and we’ve managed: no regulation, no government controls of the root—level dns. so be happy with that. the second thing is that the internet will be free, but if hackers hire anonymous infrastructure, then we want to know with what bitcoin address did you do it, what session cookie was placed, what ip address was used, what domain was used. we want to know those technical terms so we can track you and defend ourselves. the only thing i’d like to mention again to them is that it’s not just public information: it’s only there for legitimate access—seekers, and it means that cybersecurity experts and law enforcement get this information, but also journalists, and journalists are important. why? this democratises the debate. journalists can verify cyberattacks, verify what has happened. and democratising the debate on cybersecurity is one of the goals that we have also here in this parliament. last but not least, this is the best legislation we’ve yet seen in this continent. we go from a passive stance to an active stance. we’re shaping our digital environment in our atmosphere and therefore our digital future. i will leave you with one thought, which is food for thought. with the attack on colonial pipeline in the us, the malware, the malicious software, would not have gone live if the computers would have had russian language settings or russian time settings. just remember that this is not just a technical problem, this is also a geopolitical problem, a problem for diplomacy, a problem for counter—intelligence. so the nis is a good step forward. we’re not there yet. russia will not stop with this legislation. we need to do more. that’s why i encourage the commission with the new plans they came with today, we will work on it together. thank you, and let’s vote.
i thank the rapporteur and the other members who have taken part in this very interesting debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the sitting is adjourned for a few minutes and i shall resume it very shortly with the votes. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. other a european union of united, strong nation states, based on mutual respect, is the most effective response to the global technological challenges of our time. this requires a legislative framework based on those principles. the revised cybersecurity directive (nis 2) takes a step in this direction and improves europe's readiness to respond to new types of cyber threats. on the one hand, the proposal extends cybersecurity risk management measures and reporting obligations to, inter alia, the energy, transport and health sectors, while respecting national and company specificities. these are sectors that are essential to everyday life. protecting them from various cyberattacks is of paramount importance. on the other hand, the nis 2 directive also respects the competences of the member states. it lays down minimum rules for dealing with cross-border cyber threats and establishes mechanisms for effective cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states. it is of particular importance that the proposal contains appropriate safeguards with regard to proportionality, and does not go beyond national and public security, law enforcement and the administration of justice. finally, one of the important outcomes of the new cybersecurity directive is the creation of voluntary coordination programmes for expert learning. these will increase mutual trust and the opportunities for learning different good practices. this can further improve cybersecurity in europe.
in writing. the voted draft of the second directive on network and information security (the so-called nis2 directive) is a step in the right direction to ensure an adequate level of cybersecurity in the union and in the member states. this is particularly relevant in the context of increasingly frequent and consequently severe cyber-attacks that threaten the smooth functioning of all sectors of the economy and the administration, including critical sectors such as hospitals and public administration offices. in response to these challenges, nis2 extends and enriches the existing directive by, inter alia, extending the scope of the directive to new sectors, in particular, to include public administrations, which in the current geopolitical situation may be particularly vulnerable to cyberattacks, and by introducing a division of entities into those with a status of 'key' (energy, transport, health and digital infrastructure) and 'important' (postal services, electronics, motor vehicles). i welcome the proposal in the directive to introduce a mechanism for broad cooperation between member states in the union on cross-border or multi-country incidents (i.e. the cyclone cooperation mechanism). in addition, the directive also enhances the role of the cooperation group in the process of shaping strategic policy decisions and facilitates the exchange of information between member states' authorities. given that cyber-attacks are now increasingly transnational in nature, enhanced cooperation between relevant authorities in this field is essential.
in writing. the european union must protect its businesses, governments and society from hostile cyber activities. member states will be subject to stricter cybersecurity rules and penalties will be harmonised across the eu. the new legislation imposes stricter cybersecurity requirements on risk management, reporting and information sharing. the new rules concern, among other things, incident management, supply chain security, encryption and vulnerability reporting. it also requires more entities and sectors to take measures to protect themselves. for example, new provisions will apply to vital sectors such as energy, transport, banking, health, digital tourism, public administration and space. the rules must be clear and precise for businesses. the new rules also protect important sectors such as postal services, waste management, chemicals, food, medical devices, motor vehicles and machinery, electronics and digital services. the new legislation covers all medium-sized and large enterprises operating in the sectors listed above. it also creates a more efficient framework for cooperation and information sharing between various authorities and member states, and a european vulnerability database.
colleagues, i have one sombre announcement to make, for which i would ask for your attention. dear colleagues, it was with great sadness that i learned yesterday about the passing of our former colleague werner schulz. we have lost a pioneer of german unity and a committed defender of european democracy and freedom. on behalf of the european parliament i send my sincere condolences to the family and friends of werner schulz. i understand, terry reintke, you would like to take the floor.
i have to say, madam president, in fact, yesterday, 9 november, on this memorable day in german and european history, our former colleague werner schulz was taken unexpectedly from life at a memorial service at bellevue castle. we remember werner as a fighter for civil rights, beginning in the former gdr, but then also on his life's journey. he was a champion of defensive democracy, of a critical civil society and of human rights. werner was a freedom fighter, a convinced european, a sharp critic of putin and a vehement defender of ukraine. i think that should make us all think. we're going to miss werner very, very much, especially in these times. but his work will remain unforgettable for all of us, including here in the european parliament.
thank you very much, ms reintke.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for too long european companies, subject to strict state aid controls, have had to compete with foreign companies which had unhindered access to foreign subsidies. the instrument we are about to vote on gives the commission the power to act against these inflated offers of money from foreign governments. it will protect european competitiveness and prevent the leakage of european know-how and innovation. this is not empty talk: a recent german example comes to mind in this connection. once this instrument is in place, it will be difficult to imagine that the sale of a strategic stake in such a key european infrastructure as the port of hamburg to a chinese state-owned company could take place without the commission looking more closely at the origin of the advanced cash. the timing of this accusation may not be a coincidence. it reflects rather a fear of the instrument we are about to put in place today. thanks to parliament's insistence on dialogue with third countries, both bilaterally and in its multilateral fora, this regulation will put an additional tool in the commission's hands to combat the rising tide of a destructive global subsidy race. however, this instrument will be of no use without human resources devoted to its implementation. so, in addition to thanking you, commissioner vestager, for the excellent cooperation we have had on this matter, i would also ask you to ensure that sufficient resources are put in place so that this instrument is not just one on paper, because we really need human resources to make it live and make it effective. if we are serious about protecting equal opportunities in an open economy, it is time to put the word to the action.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i would warmly like to thank the rapporteur, mr hansen, for his excellent work in the inta committee on this report. also, all the shadow rapporteurs of the associated committees, ms yon-courtin for econ and mr doleschal for imco. this is an important piece of legislation. it is much needed as an addition to our toolbox to make sure that businesses have a level playing field, that they compete on their merits, on their ideas, on their innovation, on how they serve their customers. because this is how the single market should work. now we have a tool to defend fair competition, to work against subsidies, and i think it's a very good example of how europe can work together to deliver ground—breaking legislation. the trilogues: they have shown that we have a common goal and that we can achieve great results and that we can achieve them swiftly. i think that is what makes the admiration of the european democracy increase – that we can deliver when we do it in common. i think, even more so now when we are in the process of preparing the celebration of the 30 years of the single market, the timing of having this instrument is just excellent. thank you very much for the cooperation and for the swift adoption of this proposal.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. dora is a commendable initiative, because it is designed to make our digital market more resilient to terror and hybrid attacks. but it's important to protect our critical infrastructure from more than just these kinds of threats. to close this gap, i would ask you to vote on the id group's amendments to the digital business resilience act. the european digital market should also be protected for ict service providers controlled by third countries. we don't need trojan horses in this day and age. that's why i'm asking for your cooperation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in accordance with rule 53(3) and (4), on behalf of the greens/efa group i request that the order of votes on this file be changed and our request for separate votes be put to the vote today before the provisional agreement. we understand that the house will have to vote on this request and we ask for a roll—call vote. this is to allow for a separate vote, notably on the proposed mandatory identification of all internet domain registrants.
madam president, i would like to speak. i am also a black woman, like our colleague mrs assita kanko, and i am horrified by what i have just heard. that's not right at all, what she just said. that's not true. racism is real. we face this racism all the time. this is unacceptable!
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, we had some talks with the other groups on the title because right now it states: negotiations between the commission and hungary. to be very honest, it’s what happens right now but it should not be this way. the rule of law in europe should not be negotiable. that is very clear from our side. we call on the commission not to negotiate, but to assess, and that’s why i would propose a new wording, president: ‘assessment of hungary’s compliance with the rule of law conditions under the conditionality mechanism and state of play of the hungarian rrp’. let’s make clear it’s about assessing, it’s about the guardianship of the treaties, and it’s not about negotiating about the rule of law. be very clear about that.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the elections to the berlin house of representatives were marred by serious structural errors and the accusation of electoral fraud is in evidence: ballots were missing, were exchanged, polling stations had been temporarily closed, while others were still open long after the official election. the national election commissioner has since resigned. the berlin constitutional court has now declared the elections invalid. fair and free elections are the foundation of any democracy, and we will discuss how such conditions could have come about in the best germany of all time. let us show that this house is fundamentally concerned with violations of democracy and the rule of law, whether they occur in germany or in hungary.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the hour of truth has come. do we accept the first eu autocrat, viktor orbán, and his unfathomable corruption, or do we freeze his eu funds? the whole thing is now decided by 17 measures. 17 measures, which you, mr reynders, should know that they do not address the rule of law in hungary, that they do not stop corruption. why would you do that? because viktor orbán has basically written this corruption into the hungarian constitution. for seven years, he's ruled by decree. it has given 1083 projects national significance; that means there are no rules at all. for example, the lipizzaner equestrian center in szilvásvárad, built by his oligarch friend mészáros. this mészáros has won over 120 million euros in tenders in the last week alone. where is the will to reform? mr reynders, you do not believe that we can stop this corruption now with training for civil servants, with an action plan, with the promotion of small businesses? most measures are not implemented, and seven alone have deadlines, some of which go to mid-2026. and yet you must now tell me where you stand. we need to freeze money. it is the only language viktor orbán understands. we can release money again at any time if we really see changes. but it is not possible to do nothing now because orbán promises us the blue sky. i want him to deliver. so, please, make an honest assessment and propose new sanctions to match it! this is the only way we can finally get what we all want: no taxpayer money for autocrats in the eu.
the commission has already done so. to appreciate this discussion, you have to look at the critics. this is particularly true of mr körner, who is a member of the fdp, and the fdp is now regarded in germany as a synonym for cheapness: it starts with the vat cuts for hoteliers and does not end with the e-fuels for porsche. mr friend of the greens, on the other hand, says with a great deal of pathos: no taxpayer money for autocrats in the eu. but for left-wing ngos, all tax money is always available in sufficient quantities - even though interpol has now warned that many of these ngos are nothing more than money laundering enterprises. i also believe that there is a lot to improve in hungary and that we should not always give too large sums to corrupt countries. but you have to see that the main problem is that the eu is just throwing money around and taking in more and more money. i think we should start with this: we should cut the eu budgets significantly, and then corruption will also decrease significantly.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a few months ago, the news came that the european commission was actually proposing to withhold eur 7.5 billion from hungary. and i heard in my conversations with citizens: finally, finally something is happening. finally something happens. finally, action is being taken against the erosion of the rule of law in europe. but then what happened? we have seen that the way in which the mechanism has been applied was already far too small: the regulation would allow for much more - not only for cohesion funds but also for other funds. the commission has not acted at all on the rule of law in these measures, which it has negotiated with hungary. the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary were not at issue, but only the fight against corruption. and even this small part is not consistently completed - if you look at the 17 measures. it is already clear that the 17 measures which should have been implemented by the weekend have largely not been implemented. what's going to happen now? is it possible that the european commission will not withhold the 7.5 billion euro any longer? i am very clear: if the european commission releases the eu funds now, ursula von der leyen will be personally responsible for turning hungary into a cesspool of corruption. and then you have to be as honest as the european commission: then you will not apply this rule of law mechanism any more, then it is dead. this honesty, it must be clear; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, after three years in politics, i think i have identified the real big threat for humanity: it’s unhinged, uncontrolled men. uncontrolled individual men who somehow lost it because of their ego, their delusional narratives, their hunger for power, their narcissistic need to feel important. they are the real problem. we have seen it with donald trump in the us. we have seen it in china quite recently. we have seen it in qatar with the ayatollahs in iran and with putin in ukraine. uncontrolled men can be deadly. and sadly, viktor orbán, in his own way, is heading in a similar direction. he is unchecked by the media. he is unchecked by the justice system, which he controls. he is unchecked by his party, who would never vote him out of power. he is unchecked by the opposition, who he threatens. and he’s unchecked by the hungarian people who he lies to, blatantly. however, orbán does know that you, commissioner, could actually rein him in by cutting the funds that oil his corrupt machine. and that’s why he’s blackmailing today. but this time he has gone too far. his blackmail is too outrageous and too dangerous. today he’s vetoing the nato membership of two eu countries, effectively putting the citizens at risk. he’s vetoing sanctions against russian oligarchs. he’s vetoing the 18 billion for ukraine that they need so urgently. and he’s vetoing the global minimum tax on apple and co., depriving us of better schools and of higher pensions. so, commissioner, as we can see with trump, the only language that these people understand is the language of hard power. therefore, i ask you again, stand firm. once orbán reinstates the justice system, allows for fair elections, stops stealing eu cash, invites the european public prosecutor’s office and stops this blackmail, we can talk about unblocking funds. until then, stand firm.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are talking about the human rights situation in qatar. - you mean it? qatar is an islamic state. it's been known for decades that there is no equality, no free elections, no multi-party system, no trade unions, no freedom of religion, no freedom of speech and miserable working conditions, and that homosexuals have to fear for their lives there. but whenever one wanted to address situations such as those which exist in almost all islamic countries and, unfortunately, increasingly in european countries, here in parliament, the greens, the left, the socialists and the liberals shouted that this is islamophobia and cultural hegemony, and that europeans should refrain from their structural racism, which is supposedly everywhere. have you forgotten all this? now that the world cup is here, you finally have the courage to address these conditions. are you all islamophobic now? you don't think western cultural hegemony is a good thing? i don't need cultural hegemony. i just want to make sure that our values are upheld. other peoples should do as they please, but not here, as many of you often demand. criticism of qatar is pure hypocrisy. when in rome, do as the romans do: we should also allow that for qatar. but what is more important is that we here in europe are finally demanding it.
madam president, earlier this year, i visited a refugee camp near duhok in iraq – the place that is right now being bombed by iran and turkey at the same time. even five years after the defeat of isis, yazidi families still live there in confined places in an environment of unhealed trauma and limited possibilities. but that day i played soccer with the scoring girls, a team of girls that practice every afternoon, and the day i visited their fathers and brothers – even them – were watching their kids, their girls playing proudly. there was laughter, there were hugs, there was hope and the clear message that girls can do everything – even yazidi girls in iraq. that is the power of soccer, dear colleagues. and then there’s this fifa show happening right now – money, bribes, migrant workers dying on construction sites and big bosses celebrating their toxic privileges. yes, the laws for migrant workers in qatar have improved – and we will follow up if implementation will happen once the spotlight moves on, believe me – but no one needs a championship where even messages as simple as ‘one love’ are penalised with a yellow card. dear colleagues, this is just a lost opportunity for soccer and for the sad world in which we live today.
madam president, dear colleagues, of course, qatar’s government has made some reforms, has put some efforts into reforming its labour laws and this also shows that international pressure is working. but serious labour laws violations remain. forced labour and other forms of abuse continue. and so many workers died. and a lot of these cases are not being investigated. hundreds of thousands of migrant workers have still not been compensated for stolen wages in the past decade. the payment of recruitment fees for migrant workers remains widespread, tying up workers in debt bondage. for me, it is clear: fifa and the qatari government they need to do more, now but also after the attention afforded by the world cup ends. the most important thing is they need to compensate all workers that got their wages stolen in the run up to the world cup. it is time for fifa and qatar to pay up.
i have to say, madam president, how many people have to die to ruin your fun here? how many covered up accidents, how many desperate families, how many suffering migrant workers, how many suicides are okay? fifa president infantino says three people have been killed. according to amnesty international, 15,021 people have died. but isn't every life lost just so we can cheer on our team one too many? whether there are three, 30 or 3,000 dead, everyone has the right to live, to live with dignity. delayed wages, stolen passports, rooms without windows and not even the freedom to change jobs - all this was waiting for migrant workers in qatar, a country where human rights practically do not exist. a country where women cannot report rape because it is considered proof of sex outside marriage a crime punishable by imprisonment, flogging and stoning. a country where its own world cup ambassador calls homosexuality brain damage. a country where journalists are arrested for taking photographs and where criticism of the regime is punishable by fines. this world cup is a disgrace. sports and football are so important, they can do so much good. but this world cup will forever be a black spot in sports because of fifa and the conditions on the ground in qatar.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my oldest grandson asked me this weekend, "grandpa, where does all this money come from?" other i said to the 13-year-old, "let me explain this to you using the corona rebuilding fund. so, first, you set the fund to be 750 billion euros - that's how much you'd need to pay for the damage caused by the government-mandated lockdowns. in a second step, you borrow the money from the banks through bonds. so they go into debt, even though there's an eu treaty that says the eu can't go into debt. you claim that this is a one-off, but it is not. and in the third step, they tell the bank that they will pay off the debt in 36 years at the latest, with revenues that will not be fully paid in four years, but not enough to pay off all the debt. that, my dear joel, is how the rebuilding fund works. i would like to ask you, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question my grandson asked me: 'grandpa, are they crazy? other
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 22 november 2022.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr christian ehler on the establishment of the european innovation council (2022/2063 (ini)) (a9-0268/2022).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 22 november 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 172 of the rules of procedure). i would like to point out that you can speak for one minute from your seat.
i have to say, madam president, the eu has imposed sanctions on russian oligarchs this year. when will she finally impose sanctions on the rest of them? we should put an ultimatum to all the billionaires around the world: if you don't solve the climate crisis in one year, you will be expropriated. you have everything you need to do this: the fossil fuel companies, money, all the media, all the social media, millions of workers and many politicians. as a more gentle alternative, i suggest a tv format. the concept: each year, the richest person in each country is accompanied. can elon musk use his wealth to solve the climate crisis, or is he just too angry to do so? at the end of the show, he's gonna be expropriated. at least you'd get something out of it as a spectator. the important thing is, we shouldn't let the billionaires down the way they let us down. i think her money addiction should be treated the same way as any other addiction. i am thinking, for example, of the sex-shop where they are paid as a substitute for playing money.
i have to say, madam president, the automotive supplier schaeffler has cut 1,300 jobs as a result of its switch to electric mobility. borgers went bankrupt and is currently in bankruptcy. this list could be continued as far as we want, because according to a study by the consultancy firm horváth, three quarters of our suppliers are suffering from the massive increase in energy, raw materials and production costs. the automobile industry as a whole generates annual sales of 400 billion euros in germany alone and employs more than one million people. in the light of all these problems, and despite the importance of the automotive supply industry, particularly in our economic area, we are throwing a further baton between the legs of this very industry by turning to e-mobility, mercilessly, senselessly and uselessly, and committing ourselves to entering it. this is causing massive problems, and we can say that this will cause massive problems not only for my own region and ingolstadt, but for the entire economic centre of germany.
i have to say, madam president, anti-money laundering, anti-offshore tax evasion and crypto-asset regulation are the few sensible eu initiatives left. but how seriously do you take your own plans here? the ukrainian president, zelensky, as we know from the pandora papers, received 40 million euros from oligarchs and secured it in offshore accounts in the british virgin islands and belize tax-free. in addition, selenskiy appears to have gambled hundreds of millions of euros of eu aid money for the military and people of ukraine on the bankrupt crypto exchange ftx. so the money of our german and european taxpayers disappeared in an american ponzi scheme. it seems that you are not taking the fight against money laundering and crypto speculation seriously at all, because how else do you explain your support for selensky?
that concludes this item.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, tuesday, november 22, 2022, at 9:00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon session. i thank my colleagues, the commission and the interpreters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. sabotage of nord stream, attack on the railway network in northern germany - we cannot be naive when it comes to critical infrastructure. and it is also important to have a european vote on this issue, on what constitutes critical infrastructure for us, and how we protect it together. and that is why it is important that we have the debate and also put forward a corresponding directive now, today. but we also need to look at which authoritarian states have influence over our critical infrastructure, which ports are bought by which states, or what stakes are there, how we can better protect our digital world by protecting encryption and not damaging it. we'll have to look into that together. we need to look critically at critical infrastructure - the new directive does that. i thank the rapporteur. this is a step in the right direction to better protect our critical infrastructure.
for the greens/efa group madam president, after more than ten years of negotiations, the european union has adopted this directive which aims to improve equal treatment and equal opportunities between men and women. in order to achieve this balance and thus break the glass ceiling for women's participation in key positions on the boards of listed companies, many measures in favour of the second sex will be introduced, as the permanent imbalance of power between men and women is unacceptable. while some member states have slowed down the implementation of the directive, others have changed their positions, including my own member state, with the new german government advocating an inclusive and, in the long term, intersectional feminist policy. from now on, 40% of non-executive directors should be women by 2026, and 33% of all directors should be women. this initiative is a victory for women, a strong message: more women in publicly traded companies. it is clear that merit and competence remain the basic criteria for access to decision-making positions. however, in order to give this directive its full measure, we think it appropriate to make some additions such as the possibility of appealing to the courts and challenging the appointment of a male candidate. in this case, it is the company's responsibility to prove that it has acted in accordance with the rules of the directive. in the case of a selection procedure, companies should ensure gender ethnic diversity in the composition of the shortlisted candidates. this diversity includes the participation of qualified women, regardless of their cultural background, sexual orientation, age and religious beliefs. in the long term, we would like to see the introduction of equal pay for all posts. these key priorities, in line with the values of the european union, are the foundation of a participatory and inclusive rainbow society.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the first is the question of the gender balance in the labour market. after years of fighting for equality, where gender was not considered important and it was not important whether a man or a woman, we are now raising gender as the decisive criterion. this is not progress, this is regression regression to a marxist ideologically better world, in which an elite power curtails individual freedom in favor of supposed needs of the collective. fanatics who believe that they have to force people to be happy do not create happy people. they create oppressed people, and a world where people are oppressed is not a better world; it's an authoritarian, dictatorial world. i don't want to, and i hope you don't either.
madam president, numbers do matter. one in ten, less than one in ten board presidents and ceos are women. numbers do matter. ten, ten years this council has been blocking this project. ten more years when young female employees, young and old, did not know what are their chances to get into leadership positions. ten more years when schoolgirls and young women did not know what are their chances to be leaders of companies. well, now it’s going to get better. for us three elements are especially important. number one, we want a guarantee, the guarantee that women are treated fairly throughout the whole selection procedure, the whole selection procedure including preparation of vacancy notices, pre-selection phase, the shortlisting phase; and this holistic approach is in this legislation. number two, access to justice. the shift of the burden of proof is essential. it is up to the companies to prove that they do not discriminate. and this is an important step in this legislation, and our conservative and right wing colleagues: do not manipulate. it is not about putting gender over expertise because only equally, equally qualified candidates will be preferred if they are women. so it is about qualification. numbers do matter. thirty-three per cent – only 33% of non-executive and executive directors combined are the target in this legislation and that means that this number should be improved and it will be improved by us when we will evaluate this legislation very soon. there is a bigger target to aim, and this is our goal as the parliament in the future. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – madam president, it’s a nice try to distract the debate here. of course, we have 50%, more than 50%, of women as part of our population. and i think after the thousands of years of discrimination against this part of our population, our main goal now is to create legislation that will put the numbers right here. and this is what we are discussing. and don’t accuse me of being unbalanced here. i work tirelessly, just as many colleagues here, to improve the proportion of minorities of all different kinds in the leadership positions. for that, we will have different, other approaches, some of them legislative, others not. i think there is a variety of ways and instruments to improve diversity on our boards. and now we are talking about gender and diversity. and by saying that, i mean the representation of women on the board. this is a great, great legislation and we all support this. the majority of this house supports this. the majority of the european population supports this. and, please, stop instrumentalising this issue in order to be populist as so often.
in writing. the mandatory quotas are therefore intended to balance the gender ratio among non-executive directors. let's go back in time. when the commission made this proposal in 2012, it faced considerable opposition from many national parliaments. denmark, france, the netherlands, sweden and the united kingdom referred to the principle of subsidiarity. other member states raised different objections. the romanian chamber of deputies considered that the members of such supervisory boards should be appointed only on the basis of professional competence, regardless of gender. the estonian parliament said, and i quote verbatim: 'fixed quotas could lead to a situation where women are elected to the management of companies to meet a quota and not on the basis of their skills or previous performance.' the most important criterion has been vocational qualification. this is history. now the only criterion is the right gender. this has nothing to do with gender equality, it's just ideology.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended for a short time)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr nicolae ştefănuță and mr niclas herbst, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee on budgetary questions, on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2023 (14783/2022 12108/2022 c9-0389/2022 c9‐0306/2022 2022/0212(bud)) (a9-0278/2022).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. it is accomplished: we have a result in our budget negotiations. and that in itself is very important, because i think it would have been very difficult to convey that in these difficult times we are arguing even about comparatively trivial matters and are unable to put a budget together. however, there are still some fundamental problems, and i think the most fundamental is that we must work even harder to make everyone understand that the european union cannot be a mere money-distribution machine. it is about setting clear priorities, setting political priorities, and i think that - and my two previous speakers have pointed this out to us - has worked quite well as a parliament. i would also like to thank you very much for the fact that we have managed to agree on priorities across party lines, despite differing political views on them, and to establish at least some of these priorities in the budget. for the future, we must learn that it is precisely with these priorities that we determine the future. we are talking about comparatively small amounts. and when you look at the overall budget and the narrow framework that the multiannual financial framework offers us, you might think at one point or another: well, these are just small amounts. but it is also a matter of setting clear priorities for the future, and even small symbolic sums are sometimes very, very important. we have seen in section 7 that the overall situation is very difficult. we have worked as a parliament from the beginning to draw a clear line here too. we have also succeeded in imposing cuts on our own bureau. we have pointed out the legal provisions, the energy situation. we just have a difficult situation, even in this section. but it is here that we must also learn for the future. i am very pleased that we have been able to put a clear focus on cybersecurity, that we have been able to get a real boost here, and that we have also clearly committed ourselves to this and agreed that we want to work together strongly here in the future. we have already stressed this point many times. this shows that we must also be able to see the challenges of the future in the budget. and we also say as a parliament that we want to do justice to our role as advocate of the other institutions; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. this applies to us as a parliament too, knowing full well that we are facing a difficult situation here too, because the situation in heading 7 will not get any easier next year. we have managed to stay under the flexibility instrument this time by a relatively narrow margin. we will also have to work as a parliament to ensure that we do not break this bar in the future. and that's why we need to continue to work well together in the future. i thank the shadow rapporteurs, i thank the council presidency and the commission, which has fulfilled its role as guardian of the treaties and honest broker. we have just celebrated 70 years of the european parliament. i think we will also live up to our responsibility as legislators in the future. we will defend our role with confidence, as we have learned after 70 years of the european parliament.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i congratulate you on this budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they were, of course, destined to succeed, so to speak. they had no choice but to reach an agreement. if you had not done so, we could have started over and the budget would not have been adopted in time. that's why: they were destined to succeed. the conclusion is nevertheless that: this budget is so tightly knit, so sewn to the edge, that it will burst at the next crisis and the next crisis will come . the commission has already proposed a thorough revision of this budget, a change in it, and an attempt to extend it in some way. and it's already filled to the last headroom. how are you gonna do that? i do not need to be a prophet to tell you that in the next meetings next year we will have to tackle this budget again and again and again and correct it. changes must take place because it was knitted just like that. i have tabled 300 amendments with a reduction of 55%. if you had done that, you wouldn't have to re-stitch it all over again next year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu budget for 2023 was negotiated under extreme conditions: a brutal russian war of aggression against ukraine, which is defending not only its own country but also our values of democracy and freedom, and for which it has more than deserved our solidarity. at the same time, we are facing an energy price crisis and inflation that is making europeans fear for their lives. and we are facing an accelerating climate catastrophe that will pose even greater challenges to the global community. we are responding to this with concrete measures, with increased investment in the eastern and southern partnerships, which we are supporting, for example, in the reception of refugees. we are responding with increases to the life programme, which protects our nature, and with funds for the connecting europe facility in the field of transport and energy. europe is setting the right priorities especially in the midst of the crisis. but does that mean we're capable of action? i'm not sure. we're too small for that. and that is why we expect the commission to undertake an ambitious review of the multiannual financial framework.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not for several months, viktor orbán has been blocking the global minimum tax for large corporations such as starbucks, amazon, bayer or ikea. orbán has been playing the czech presidency of the council and the eu commission on this issue for months. instead of ignoring his attempts to blackmail him into releasing eu funds from the nextgenerationeu fund, they let him have his way. first it was said that an agreement would be reached just before the summer, then it was september, then october. now we're looking at a deal for december. orbán gets the reconstruction billions and ratifies the global minimum tax in return. there are better alternatives. the eu member states can decide on the tax under enhanced cooperation without hungary. but the united states is also not in favour of a compromise. at the latest since the midterms, there is no majority in the us chambers to ratify the global minimum tax. this is extremely bitter, because right now in the crisis, we need more tax justice and more budgetary resources to invest in climate, research and digitization. that is why we need a second package, in addition to the one we have now, which we believe will include an eu digital tax and a financial transaction tax. we're here to support you, but we want to see you fight.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the eurozone, with the uk, has the highest inflation rate and the worst growth data and forecasts of the developed world. the commission and the ecb say that the fault lies not with the eu's economic and monetary policies but with unfortunate circumstances: covid, the war in ukraine, the climate, etc. etc. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's debt is reduced, and it is therefore proposing to make the debt reduction guidelines for member states more flexible, i.e. to reduce debt at a slower pace and to increase debt provisionally. since 2008, member states' debt has escalated without any growth effect. the commission is nevertheless confident that more debt will create more growth. but where do you get this certainty? in other words, what did your predecessors and national governments do wrong since 2008, the great financial crisis? and what exactly are you going to do right now that your predecessors did wrong? after all, your predecessors were as sure as you of making more growth with more debt.
so, if i understand you correctly, you’re saying that more debt hasn’t exactly given rise to higher growth levels, but it’s kind of helped us to avoid the very worst. so could i infer from this that there’s something fundamentally wrong with the european union now, that we can’t grow any longer and we’ve got to incur more debt just in order to defer, shall i say, the worst of all possible worlds?
dear commissioners, as greens we warmly welcome that we are actually finally debating a reform of the stability and growth pact and the fiscal rules. but some days ago we could see that the climate conference, the cop, ended with quite a disappointing result. and i think nearly all of us agree that we need more investments, we need more climate investments. and looking at the figures and estimations the commission has come with, we can see that we are actually missing 520 billion each year for green investments. and it’s true, that’s not just public investments, it’s not just the european union or the national level, but in general we are missing 520 billion to reach that goal. so i would ask you much more concretely, what do you think is in your proposal to ensure that we will end up with more green investments, needed green investments, to reach our climate goals? i think that you are missing the green investment rules, and i would like to get a comment from you on why you haven’t agreed to propose the green investment rule and what you think is the way forward for green investments.
the european commission has launched the long-awaited reform of the debt rules, and it was more than overdue. we suspended the stability and growth pact in solidarity at the beginning of the pandemic, and the debt level in the eurozone has increased. this is precisely why a one-size-fits-all approach is unrealistic, given the different budgetary and structural conditions in the member states. the commission's plan to introduce medium-term and member state-specific debt plans is therefore a good proposal. this will not mean that everyone can manage the household as he or she wishes; the rules will remain uniform and will apply uniformly. but we need massive investment in climate protection now, and for that new debt rules must create the space in national budgets. the integration of budgets into national energy and climate plans is therefore a step forward. but we need more speed and more ambition in climate investments. the ambition that was lacking at cop 27 is now all the more a commitment for the eu. and here is my question: how can we manage to create financial space for member states so that member states are able to successfully fight against climate change?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, schoolchildren burying their classmates shot by the regime, reduced liberties, electricity cut-off, people screaming, gunshots, and then, silence. it’s always the same patterns: the regime shuts down the internet, it kills in darkness, and that is why it is our job to put the spotlight on what is happening in iran. there are even testimonies that the revolutionary guards picked the most beautiful protesters, boys and girls, and then raped them – so that others no longer dare to raise their voices. and colleagues, i want to know what happens, and i don’t want those responsible for these atrocities to get away with it. this thursday – the day after tomorrow – the un human rights council will hold its first ever special session on iran and it will vote on the establishment of an independent fact-finding mission. colleagues, this is a key vote. we have to document the atrocities. we have to fight impunity. and i want us to make sure that it’s the broadest possible majority coming out of this special session. and then there will be 12 december – it’s another foreign affairs council. and the 227 iranian members of parliament who asked for severe punishment are still not on the sanctions list. we have their names. we know their offence. and the colleagues pointed it out – how much more does this need to happen before we finally put the whole revolutionary guard on the sanctions list? and maybe someone can send this message to mr borrell because, once again, he’s not showing up in this debate. i understand well, there’s only so much we can do from the outside. but that is why it is needed that we fully dedicate ourselves to doing just so much. this is the least we owe to the brave protesters who stand up against that oppression in iran every day. colleagues, our attention and our determination are the best protection we can give to them, and that is what we should do with all the energy we have.
madam president, here you all go again. in shock about iran this time. all the while, carefully avoiding to call the devil by its name. masha did not die because of some fundamentalists abusing islam. masha died because she would not subdue to islam. there is no such thing as islamism. it is islam, point blank. and now go ahead, call me islamophobe all you want. heck, have them issue a fatwa against me and see if i care. the truth is, i am not afraid of islam. the islam apologists, the one patronising islam, calling it the religion of peace, even. they are the ones afraid of islam. again, i am not afraid of islam. i do, however, strongly object to this misogynistic, misanthropic and totalitarian ideology. and if you truly cared about freedom, democracy and the rule of law, you would stop your bigotry and for once have the guts to acknowledge the true problem. it is called islam.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have a minute here, and i want to give this minute to voices that i think need to be heard here in this european parliament: the two kurdish activists zeineb and shahab. they say: "in the last two months, more than 100 kurdish men and women have been killed, including many children. the iranian government is now using banned chemical weapons and nerve agents. how can it be that a military attack by one country on another is considered a war crime, but the attack is directed against its own people, and everyone looks the other way? other a few seconds for my friend and iranian artist nasanin. she says: a minute is not enough to report how people on the streets in the cold, after 65 days still hopeful, with nothing but bare hands and freedom in their hearts are fighting for their rights against a fully armed, bloodthirsty regime. but perhaps one minute is enough to ask you to look. we need your support now. i'd like to give my vote to a lot more people. i hope that we can create a space here in parliament where these voices can speak for themselves. here in the european parliament, a minute is very little. in iran, every second counts. it can be the second you can quickly upload a picture of a murdered person, or you can upload a video of an atrocity. every second counts, and here she has to do the same.
madam president, and because a number of colleagues have spoken about the role of women in the region, allow me to read out a small list to you, who are the eu heads of eu delegations in the region. israel: mr dimiter tzantchev, syria: mr dan stoenescu, lebanon: mr ralph tarraf, libya: mr jose antonio sabadell, egypt: mr christian berger, yemen: mr gabriel munuera viñals, united arab emirates: mr andrea matteo fontana, saudi arabia and bahrain: mr patrick simonnet, qatar: mr christian tudor, kuwait: vacant for a change, iraq: mr ville varjola, turkey: mr nikolaus meyer-landrut, and the new special envoy to the gulf, well, maybe mr luigi di maio – for sure it will be another man. and there’s just one little surprise i have for you, ambassador to jordan: maria hadjitheodosiou. and it may be worth noting that the ambassadors of jordan and oman to the european union are women and so will be the new ambassador of saudi arabia to the european union. so maybe we should also start to walk our own talk dear colleagues.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that a new strategy for enlargement requires two things above all: honesty and a genuine desire to succeed. and i think that in both areas your proposal, mr picula, deserves improvement. honesty for once: the cooperation that president vučić and the serbian government are maintaining with russia is simply unacceptable and contrary to our values, and we see no turning back, and we see no guilt. so all of our calls, which you've made here, are simply not enough. i am more concerned about the situation in the serbian media. they are openly pro-russian and cheer the ukrainian defeats. how can support for the eu thrive in such an environment? i don't see that. that brings me to my second point. we must appeal to the citizens and inspire them to europe. they need to see the added value of the eu in action. i am glad that you mentioned specific projects in the energy sector. we need investment in this region, we need good jobs. so that is what is missing from your report, and i think that is the only way we can really make progress. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm sure you will.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. 'europe is a garden surrounded by a jungle', said mr borrell in a recent speech. he meant that the eu was a garden that had to be protected from the savages of the jungle. but with arms exports, gagging and trade treaties, the rulers of the garden here have been plundering the predators, the treasures of the african continent, for decades. in old and new colonial ways, they are taking the air from the people of africa to breathe, the seas from which to fish, the bread from which to eat. they create permanent escape routes. it was nato bombing that turned libya into a hotbed of civil war. it is eu money that has built the brutal libyan coastguard, organized illegal pushbacks and responsible for brutal human rights violations. this is called 'externalising the borders'. in my numerous inquiries, i have found that the eu has turned africa and libya into a testing ground for new technology of isolation - a policy that does not make the eu look as pure and beautiful as mr borrell claims, but rather as depraved and savage. so as long as this political economy doesn't change, the question remains, where are the real predators sitting?
i have to say, madam president, legalizing illegal migration, as is being called for in libya, is by no means a solution - on the contrary, it will only exacerbate the migration problem. there is a simple solution to this problem, which i would like to explain briefly. firstly, the private rescue of people at sea, the extended arm of the smugglers, should be banned. secondly, to establish temporarily a state-run sea rescue service that returns every migrant to his place of origin. thirdly, safe return to the countries of origin. fourthly, to launch a massive campaign in the countries of origin to show that the journey is not worth it. fifthly, the establishment of centres on the ground where asylum can be applied for on a regular basis. the benefits are obvious: the death rate of migrants is reduced to zero, the welfare state is massively relieved, crime is reduced, there are fewer murders, rapes and attacks. and africa is finally being forced to deal with the self-inflicted problem of population growth. contrary to your plans, my proposal would be a win-win for all parties.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr weber, i wanted to comment briefly on you at the beginning because you said that you decide who enters your home at your doorstep, and that the same must be true at the external borders of europe. i honestly believe that such language pictures are also an expression of a wealth deprivation which we cannot really afford in this house. i believe and i hope that nobody freezes on your doorstep at night, and i hope that thousands of people don't drown on your doorstep every year. and i think that if we realize what the reality is and that, of course, at your doorstep it is not about the rule of law that makes us the european union, but of course it is your decision at home who can enter and who cannot, but at the external borders, there are completely different rules, you can't just ignore that. i think we need to stop using weird language to blind people to the cruel reality of our asylum policy. i'll tell you what the reality is. if you're in the mediterranean in distress, just coming from libya, and you call the malta sea rescue centre, there's probably no one there to answer; and if someone answers, they don't send boats. and when frontex flies over the mediterranean and sees a boat in distress, frontex doesn't inform the boats in the area and say, "there's a boat in distress". no, they inform libyan militias, islamist militias, who then make sure that people are brought back to libya, where the women -- and all the women on those boats -- are raped and the men are abused. i think that when we realize that this reality cannot be part of the solution, but is something that we have to solve -- and you can make new laws, but you don't need to, if you have a little bit of decency -- then you can just realize that in the end, it's not about criticizing the ngos for doing what we should be doing, but that we now have to finally make sure that money is put into sea rescue, that we get a proper distribution, and that we use the decency that should be part of europe, so that we build a europe that is also not embarrassed in migration policy by everything that should be part of our work.
the commission has already done so. i'm not going to lie. mr. marquardt obviously didn't like your speech that much. i thought it was good. the afd has been making these proposals for years. and i understand why you gave that speech. let me finish. they come from bavaria, and in bavaria it is like in all the federal states now: the asylum centres are full, the towns and municipalities are asking for help. they say: we can't do it anymore, our container villages are full, we don't know where to put the migrants. and that is exactly what is happening in nrw and other countries. in nrw, the mayors - many of them social democrats - have just appealed to the federal government to help them, because they no longer know where to go. and that is why all appeals for solidarity are pointless: if people have no more options and the costs are also going through the roof, you cannot ask for more solidarity. i can't do that. and here in the chamber there is a big pink elephant which the social democrats in particular do not want to address. they have already done so, because that is the danish policy on asylum and migration. the danish social democrats have made it very clear that they do not want any more immigration; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the fact that the social democrats, like mrs bischoff here, have been silent about this danish solution for months or years has of course its reasons. but nevertheless, this house should pay more attention to this political action by the danes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that in view of the debate here, it is good that we once again remember what the citizens of the conference on the future have written to us in the migration field. they said we should act more decisively and finally have a common migration policy, and i believe that the migration pact is the piece of evidence we need to produce in order to follow it. and they have told us again that they want a reform of european asylum law based on the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, and they recommend that we ensure common eu rules on procedures for examining applications for international protection, which are uniformly applicable to all asylum seekers, and that these procedures must take into account human dignity and international law. they also want us to review the dublin system solidarity and a fair distribution of responsibilities among the member states. and if nothing changes fundamentally, then populist actions like those in italy will continue to divide europe, poison the climate and make citizens doubt; and here again, action instead of populist games.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commission and council representatives, ladies and gentlemen, actually, i'm tired of having these debates; i'm gonna make this very clear here. we have nothing new to discuss here. the council is giving us a lukewarm speech which does not even take up the speaking time because you have nothing to say. the commission presents us with a 20-point programme - but that is really just old wine in new bottles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then there is the proposal from the epp to hold the debate here, and the council is quite tearful and says: yes, we must finally make progress on the migration council. yes, of course we need progress on the migration pact, of course we need the pact. but it is not because of this european parliament that we are not making any progress on migration or asylum, but because there is no majority in the council for constructive policy. that's the problem. and you could still act. why do we have ngos doing maritime rescue in the mediterranean? that's because we're not doing a state-run sea rescue in the mediterranean. and the malta sea rescue zone doesn't even work properly; people are drowning while we're having this discussion. i'm tired of having these debates. i'm tired of waiting for the council to make progress. and, ladies and gentlemen, you can act in the council. you can make progress, because we even have points where we agree. put it into effect! if you can put them into effect, we'll make progress. and in conclusion: if we do not succeed, if the council does not succeed in finding a solidarity mechanism and in organising majorities in the council for this purpose, then we will not make any progress at all on the migration pact.
mr president, commissioner, minister, maite has just said it has been seven years since we started with the first proposal – since you started with the first proposal on the common european asylum system. and since then, year by year we have been discussing and not much has happened. we have failed more or less to come up with such a system. and every day the right—wingers in this house are very, very happy about this because they can instrumentalise this to grow. and we have seen this. how did lega get big? how did the afd get big? how did marine le pen get big? it’s all by capitalising on the fears of migration. this, for me, was one of the reasons of founding a european movement, because i feel that we have not found a system to actually take decisions to solve this issue. and what happens instead is that we have a system of basically deterrence by suffering. we fund libyan coastguards, we fund billions for border controls, we criminalise ngos, but we have not found a solution yet. so i would urge you once again, please set up a european search—and—rescue mission. please ensure that we have mechanisms to embark asylum seekers and please make sure that maritime law is upheld and ngos are safeguarded.
mr president, dear commissioners, dear representative of the council, dear colleagues, we have been discussing the need for a european solution on an asylum and migration for years now. the need for a common solution has, meanwhile, become an imperative. first and foremost, we need to find a clear system of rules that corresponds to the current realities. this is why the commitment of the european parliament and upcoming council presidencies to finalise the reform of legislation on asylum and migration is pivotal. secondly, as corresponds to our values, we need to ensure that saving human lives is a primary consideration. the legal obligation of sea rescue is a clear and unequivocal. a step forward is the – agreed under the french presidency – voluntary solidarity mechanism, taking up commitments for relocation from the countries confronted with disembarkment and heavy migration flows. but here too, we need a permanent system applied to all. it is time for solidarity. it is time for action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on 11 november a tunisian coastguard motorboat boarded a boat with migrants on board: three children drowned. in 2020, one of the heads of the libyan coast guard was arrested by the authorities in tripoli: he was one of the human trafficking bosses. and that's just two cases. and it is with european taxpayers' money that we fund the north african coastguard: in tunisia, in libya, in egypt. and with what results? the death toll is rising. ladies and gentlemen, this is our failure: we fund human traffickers or the notorious libyan prisons. but let us not discuss this failure, no, let us discuss the ngo ships. someone's pulling out the phantom pull factor theory. where's this pull factor? where is this false report from frontex that knows minister tajani in italy, but we don't know and we have no right to see? the legality of the activities of ngos is called into question. but these are all charges that are contradicted by international law and facts. ngos operate in full compliance with international maritime law. the only ones who do not do this are governments that reject boats, that leave them adrift at sea for weeks, like my government in italy. ngos do the only thing that is consistent with european values: i'm here to save lives.
mr. chairman, colleagues, crossing a state border is a crime. this crime must be investigated, prosecuted, charged, tried and convicted. instead, this hall is a sanctuary for such crimes. it's very much about the rule of law. what rule of law when you support lawlessness and crime? the far-left occupied parliamentary chamber of this european parliament is complicit in human trafficking, is complicit in a number of crimes related to human trafficking. you're working with trafficking organizations, you're supporting trafficking organizations that sell people like commodities and you're supporting them and you should be ashamed of yourself. the supporters of illegal migration are directly responsible and culpable for the deaths of bulgarian border and police officers who have died and continue to suffer and suffer damage, shootings with illegal immigrants and turkish smugglers. you talk about solidarity. have any of you called the families of these people to express solidarity with them? no, of course you're not, and you shouldn't be, because you should be ashamed of yourself. the solution is one and it must be a european one: a single firm stance, protection of the external borders, extradition of illegal migrants, trial and imprisonment of smugglers and shame for those who support them. (the president agreed to reply to the statement 'blue card')
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. you're accusing us progressives of being complicit and scavengers. then we'll wait for your report. if you accuse us of being accomplices of the shipwreckers, we expect you to bring a complaint before some court of justice, european, national, italian. you have to accuse us with specific acts and facts. it must also tell us whether there are ngos which have been condemned by some european court of justice, by some judge, for being complicit with the divers and complicit with the deaths at sea. do you have this countess? do you have any data? do you know if there are any criminal convictions for ngo ships? otherwise, he is just spreading propaganda and making unnecessary accusations.
reply to the statement 'blue card'. of course, my dear colleague, anyone who supports and encourages the illegal crossing of a state border is a political accomplice to those who traffic in human beings. there are organizations that promote human trafficking, that organize human trafficking, that receive money for human trafficking, and here, in this room, there are people who advocate human trafficking. and i'm surprised, but i'm not surprised, because when the left that occupies the room and dominates the room supports illegal immigration, it does so for its own political reasons. but any of you who support illegal border crossings should be ashamed of yourselves, because you are, in essence, complicit in criminal acts. it's as simple as that.
mr president, i wanted to tell mrs monserrat, but she has left, that using the nador tragedy to attack the spanish government from this house seems to me pathetic and regrettable - pathetic and regrettable - and i hope you will take it up. that said, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago we activated in record time a european directive that had been dormant for twenty years to welcome and protect citizens fleeing putin's war, something we did not do in 2015 with the syrian war, or in 2021 with the afghan crisis. i am saying that when there is political will and courage we are able to give effective european answers to the great challenges. if we have been able to take in four and a half million people in a few months, why are we not able to manage with dignity the 200,000 migrants who try to arrive by sea and by land every year? that is why we need the political will, solidarity and trust between the member states to finally implement the pact on migration and asylum with mandatory relocation, humanitarian channels and a european maritime rescue mechanism which we have been calling for for years and which the forces of the european right are rejecting. and at the same time we need, commissioner, commissioner, to develop all the instruments of legal immigration.
mr president, not a long time ago, someone who moved on our continent from country to country was a migrant, a stranger. but even someone who moved, say, from hessen to bavaria and had a different accent, wore different clothes, ate handkäse mit musik and not white sausage with sweet mustard, was a migrant, was a stranger. this has changed. today, migrants we call those who come on our continent from different continents. but also this will change. i’m sorry that we heard so many times in this debate words like smugglers, invasion, danger, costs, mafias, etc. dear colleagues, led by fears and xenophobia we will never cope well with migrations. and the question: is a person who is drowning in the sea illegal? a person who is freezing to death in the forests and swamps between poland and belarus: is this person illegal? nobody should die at our european borders. this is the most important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the debate today has brought many things to the fore. first, we argue passionately, with emotion, with good arguments and with less good arguments. secondly, we don't have a problem of knowledge, we have a problem of implementation. we all know the positions of the national delegations, we know the positions of the political groups, we know the positions of the institutions. thirdly, the truth is that agreements have not lasted very long because member states no longer trust each other, because commitments were not reliable, because national decisions are taken which affect not their own country first but the member states on the external border, which are already burdened. fourthly, we simply cannot afford to go from one emergency solution to another. we need a system that is logical, efficient and crisis-proof, not a system of fancy solutions but one that improves reality. we here, especially in this house, have the power to break the deadlock once and for all. the council has blocked it. i don't want the narrative in the next legislature to be: parliament has blocked. we celebrated 70 years of the european parliament here yesterday and perhaps we should keep this video in mind more often. none of this would have been possible without courage, without politicians who take responsibility, and i refuse to accept that we cannot do the same for asylum and migration. so the decision here today is actually a pretty simple one: are we on the responsibility team or are we on the discouragement team? and my position on that is perfectly clear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when you talk about search and rescue, you don't really have to look for the problem, because it's happening right in front of our eyes - well documented by the coastguard, by civil society, even by frontex. we in europe may be proud of freedom and human rights, but we are not proud of them at sea. human rights are not earned, they are inherited by all of us. what kind of a reality - we have to ask ourselves - do we live in, where people are drowning on a regular basis and we even punish those who try to save them? this is a reality in which neo-fascism dictates what our solidarity looks like. and we have to ask ourselves, what is our response to that? and this is something i don't understand because again, we are not discussing our own search and rescue mission, but we are discussing strengthening the capacity of the libyan coast guard - a gang of various militias working with smugglers and traffickers. and we must be clear that no port in libya is safe. if we deliberately abandon people there and send them back, we can look for our values for a long time - because then they can no longer be saved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the whole of europe is suffering the consequences of dependence on fossil fuels. and while our citizens, our industry and our craft industries are suffering from high prices, those who would like to leave everything and everyone to the market are lamenting a market failure. the market follows the models exactly. it is a picture of scarcity, and it is relentless. i am quite convinced that we need to change the design of the market. we need a much stronger linkage of all types of energy use: electricity, heat, mobility; there must be better incentives for sector coupling and storage; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the networks. the current study of the network operators clearly shows that the network charges are so different that there is no real internal market in electricity. and it is absurd that the electricity customers in the exporting country should have to bear the cost of transporting electricity to the importing country. that is why i am looking forward to working with you on a new market design.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. how can we make energy bills affordable and our businesses competitive with a truly integrated european energy market? three short answers to that: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the crisis has shown what accelerations we are capable of if we have to. i call on the member states to call on and implement the eu funds available as quickly as possible and to invest them in particular in the energy infrastructure of the future, in electricity and hydrogen. secondly, we can bring down energy prices if we act as the eu on the world market and buy together. with a concentration of consumer power and long-term contracts, we could achieve better conditions and greater security. in this respect, ladies and gentlemen of the commission and the council, overcome your egos and become strategic! we need a real european energy diplomacy. and thirdly, we are currently discussing a gas price brake. the most important factor for the industrial location of europe will be the price of electricity. we need a real solution for this, so that companies can see a future in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. today we are talking about the international day for the elimination of violence against women. and as always, it's gotten a lot worse. and as always, we don't want to talk about the real causes of these problems. the situation in germany: domestic violence increased by 50% in 2013. the women's shelters are completely overcrowded, and 70% of the women in the women's shelters are not germans. they come from syria, turkey, afghanistan and iraq. female genital mutilation is a particularly heinous crime. this too has increased by 40% since 2017. the victims are from eritrea, somalia and iraq. gang rape is actually a phenomenon that we didn't even know about before 2015. in 2020 alone, there were 704 cases of gang rape, and the perpetrators come from afghanistan, syria, and iraq. these are just examples. i could still give you the figures for the murders, for the forced marriages, for the forced prostitution - always the same perpetrators. and now, former spd family minister giffey says: we know that immigration is presenting us with an image of women that has nothing to do with equal treatment and non-violent relationships. that's what the spd's minister for family affairs says. and if we know all this, why don't we act? if we want to protect women, we must finally and consistently delay, and we must finally and consistently end the illegal mass immigration of young men from the most misogynistic culture on earth. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by means of a 'blue card' procedure.)
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. it is very much a part of the cultures of the countries of the people who have come to us. and this is iraq, nigeria, afghanistan, this is eritrea, somalia; and again and again, syria, again and again, the countries of origin of the people who come to us for protection. these people are repeatedly exposed to incredibly heinous atrocities against women. and it's got to stop. and these are figures from the bureau of crime statistics.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to draw attention today to the situation of girls and women with disabilities. they are a group that is not visible perhaps a shadow group in the european union. in germany, one in two women and girls is a victim of violence. and we're talking about a very diverse form of violence, which is psychological violence, physical violence, sexual violence. and often these women, these girls, are not believed. the most common statements are: be glad that someone is touching you. you want to break up with your husband? where are you going? when women and girls with disabilities are told from the beginning in special worlds, in special institutions, in the family: you are nothing, you can do nothing, you can be grateful that someone marries you, that you are taken care of and this is the idea that is so deeply rooted in this society in the european union: that of being taken care of. what we need is to run out of facilities for people with disabilities. we need a clear plan for the protection of women and girls with disabilities: education, accessibility, barrier-free access for medical practices, police. the police and the relevant institutions must be trained to believe the women and girls with disabilities.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. they want to freeze us and destroy our electricity and heat supply. that's how kiev's mayor klitschko describes putin's brutal strategy for this winter. it exemplifies the fears of many people in ukraine, with whom we, nine green members of parliament, had talks in kiev over the weekend. the ukrainian winter is getting rough. we in the green group therefore fully support the 18 billion euro of financial aid which we are voting on tomorrow. the ukrainian war economy faces enormous challenges. the gross domestic product has fallen by 37% and inflation is at 27%. during a brutal war, a country cannot recover economically. the financial assistance is essential to keep ukraine running. but now it is also about laying the foundations for reconstruction. the reconstruction must be sustainable, involve civil society and meet all democratic and anti-corruption provisions. ukraine can count on us: solidarity with ukraine.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to ask three questions on this point. the first question concerns the european court of auditors. the european court of auditors has delivered its opinion, but it says that it has only had 12 days to deliver that opinion. what happened? and why was it only yesterday that we were able to get it and now we cannot debate it, the good and sensible proposals he has made? i don't understand what's going on. a second question concerns this direct financing of the budget of ukraine. when we in the cont committee, wherever i am, see something like this, that money is flowing directly into the budget of a state, then we are always very alert and very vigilant and try to find out: what is happening here, what is going on here? and i have great concerns that if this money flows here to ukraine, to the most corrupt state on our continent - that's a fact. if this money is now going into this war economy, is that really well spent, is that really right? will it really help the people of ukraine? that's the question. and the third question is: do we actually know, do you actually know how much money we're sending to these people over there? i have 50 euro bills here, together they're half a centimeter high. and this money, if you put it on a tower, then the 18 billion is a tower of 40 kilometers of money. is that what we want?
madam president, we stand with ukraine, with our hearts, our minds, and eur 18 billion. we stand with ukrainian people, who will never give up fighting because they have seen how putin’s troops have raped, tortured and murdered innocent civilians. we stand with the ukrainian teachers, the nurses, the mayors, the technicians and the construction workers who are rebuilding their country every day after every attack. and we stand with the ukrainian soldiers who save human lives by stopping bombs and retaking occupied territories. we stand with the families, with the children who are in the cold, without heating, without electricity, without water, because russian bombs target civilian energy infrastructure. and this is happening right now, while we are speaking, in kyiv. we stand with the ukrainian people who are fighting every day to protect not only their own country, but our democracy and freedom. and i can tell you, eur 18 billion is not a high price because the really high price is paid by the ukrainian people. we stand with ukraine.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. 69% of the population populations of wild birds, fish, amphibians and reptiles have declined by 69% worldwide over the last 50 years. these numbers are dramatic, and extinction is even more threatening than the climate crisis, because the biodiversity of our planet provides us with safe drinking water, clean air and fertile soil. the forthcoming world conference on biodiversity must be a turning point. just as the 2015 paris agreement finally established the need for global climate protection, we need a montreal convention for the protection of biodiversity. but the most important cause of species extinction is habitat loss. we must not only create protected areas, we must not only restore nature, but we must tackle the root cause: the conversion of wetlands, of old-growth forests, of grasslands into farmland to feed the steadily growing meat consumption. mr sinkevičius, mr bek, will you not only advocate measures to protect at least 30% of the land and sea area, but also to regulate activities which further fuel the loss of biodiversity?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is astonishing: they preach biodiversity, they reproach farmers for alleged pollution and they want to extend protected areas which are not worth a whistle because they happily propagate a 'green' turn with massive expansion of wind energy, also in protected areas. the commission has just proposed an emergency regulation which completely suspends the environmental protection including the birds directive when it comes to 'renewable energy'. sealing the ground with thousands of tons of reinforced concrete is suddenly no longer an issue. for a single lappish bird and insect shredder, 0.5 hectares are fully sealed. in germany alone, the area of the plant is 15 000 hectares with concrete piers reaching more than 60 metres deep. in the reinhardswald, 195-year-old trees have to give way to windmills. their wish to protect biodiversity is not only false, but simply does not take place in a collective bout of climate schizophrenia.
mr president, dear colleagues, we are facing a serious problem. at the climate cop 27, the global community failed to make concrete steps to stay within the 1.5 degree pathway. allowing the climate crisis and the biodiversity loss to continue is not an option. allowing the climate crisis and biodiversity loss to go further and further is not a solution. insurance to compensate loss and damages were an important first step at the cop, but it will not be sufficient. speaking of insurance, saving biodiversity is our best insurance to combat climate change. the greater the biodiversity of our ecosystems, the more options for adaptation are left for our future. in the eu, we already practice ecological forestry methods in only one third of our forests. we must transform our entire forest management towards more biodiversity. commissioner sinkevičius, minister bek, will you ensure that the eu pushes for the best possible result at the cop15 and at the same time take serious steps for sustainable ecological forestry at home? let’s keep the birds in forests singing today and tomorrow.
mr president, i wonder if anyone from bulgarian authorities ever looked into the child’s eyes – into child sara’s eyes or into eyes of other children who are affected like the one we’ve heard the story today as well, who is risking to end up as orphan because one parent is terminally ill and the other parent is not even recognised as a parent across the eu just because they are of same sex. have you ever looked into children’s eyes? if you did, you would see children stripped of their rights, of their origin, of their childhood, of their families; parents discriminated beyond imaginable because they’re stripped of the most natural – of the ability and right to raise their children. it’s not just lgbtiq community rights, it’s children’s rights and it’s parents’ rights. the european court of justice said this on multiple occasions, and i urge the commission to start acting now and to be ambitious in the law that it will propose to the parliament. we in the legal affairs committee are waiting for this law and we will be ambitious ourselves.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it was in the debate that the absurdity was noticed. the right and the conservatives, who are always talking about the family, which must be protected, from the germ cell of society, the children must be protected. orbán has even introduced a law to protect children. it's always about the kids, it's always about the family. and here we see the absurdity: what does it have to do with the protection of the family, with the special protection of children, to make a child stateless? what good is it to protect the family by forcing parents to fight bureaucracy with the authorities, even to go to court, instead of spending time with their child? i don't know. all this absurd ideology because you think that what cannot be cannot be. that is what i am saying. family is where there are children, where people take responsibility for each other. and parents in one country are parents in another country.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur on this report. i think it is an important report and i think it comes at the right time. we are in a situation where the world, but also europe, is facing unprecedented crises. you can talk about global warming, you can talk about the war of aggression in ukraine, you can talk about food security in the world, but also about the fact that more than 100 million people are on the run. and of course we do not want to live in a world where people have to flee to europe first to find somewhere to find protection and security, a future, a good prospect. that is why it is particularly important in these times that we ensure that people elsewhere have prospects for the future, and i believe that the eu must also take a leading role in this issue to meet the 2030 agenda and the goal of leaving no one behind, but it is also clear that we need to work better together, work better together between the eu institutions, the member states, the funding structures of the member states, and also with the ngos, you can work better together. only in this way can we meet the needs of our partners in the global south and only in this way can we win new partners, which is also very important, especially at this time. i therefore think and hope that this report will serve as a building block in the strategy to bring more harmony to the work of the eib, the ebrd and national development finance. i also hope that it will help to give us, as the european parliament, a more central role in shaping and also reviewing eu spending on development cooperation, and i thank mr goerens for that in conclusion.
colleague, you had one minute, i gave you almost one and a half minutes. i interrupt all colleagues. i have the same judgement to everybody. you do not have the floor anymore, i am sorry. you do not have the floor and the microphone is off.
i call you to order, madam president. i can't do that. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) no reason.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. three years ago, the european union reorganized its development aid in the hope that it could be more flexible and efficient. we as the epp have also worked to ensure that we also start a debate on the reorientation of our european development finance institutions, because there is more competition in the world - think of china - and more tasks - think of climate change. the decision has not been taken to reform the whole thing, but to maintain the status quo plus, that is to say, the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development should both continue to exist. in this context, the implementation of the plus programme is particularly important to me: improving the eib's local presence and expanding to sub-saharan africa. i would add that it will be essential that we provide our development banks and the private sector with appropriate financing and risk-sharing instruments much better than before, because it is through their increased commitment that we will achieve real prospects for the people of our partner countries. if we combine this with a consistent political flanking, then our geopolitical ambitions could actually take shape. the eib and the ebrd have been successful in their reorientation.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, colleagues cop 27 has shed a light on the dire situation of human rights in egypt, and cop 27 could have been an opportunity to bring a better situation for human rights, for the government to show that egypt is committed to human rights. but all they’re doing is just the contrary. yes, they have put in place a presidential pardon committee. but let’s be honest colleagues, they pardoned people that never should have been detained. they detain arbitrarily people that are against the regime. no opposition is allowed. and so then afterwards, they say, ‘ok, we do a presidential pardon’. sorry, colleagues, this is not a step forward for human rights. this is just nonsense from my point of view. and we should be very clear: there are hundreds and thousands of people detained arbitrarily that have no access to fair trials. these are lawyers. these are journalists. these are human rights defenders, bloggers, etc. so all those people, we want them to be free, to be able to speak out loud what’s happening in their country at the moment. and i want to name personally alaa abd el—fattah. he is in prison since a long time, and he was close to death only a couple of days ago during cop 27. and i call on the european commission and the member states to step up for alaa abdel fattah. i call on the egyptian government to free him because he should be free and he should go back to uk, to his family.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not commissioner, it is very good that you are here, and it is also very good that we are having this debate, that we have this resolution, that we are showing that we do not forget the suffering of the people of afghanistan, and in particular that we are also not indifferent to how we can improve the situation in the future. we just have to look at: how can we improve the humanitarian situation in afghanistan on the one hand? but on the other hand, how can we also make it clear that the biggest threat to afghanistan is always going to be the taliban? we agree that we must help the people of afghanistan. what worries me a little bit is that in the debates of the last few weeks, we feel on one side with the people in afghanistan, as long as they are in afghanistan; but once they flee the country, try to take very unsafe routes with some kind of smuggling networks, some kind of mafias - because there are no legal escape routes - to get out of the country, then we lack the empathy, then we are very big in saying that you have to close the balkan route at last; one of the largest groups is people from afghanistan. i would like to see the same empathy that we show in the resolution for the people of afghanistan, for the people of afghanistan when they no longer have to learn and flee.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already done so. this is now felt to be the hundredth debate on the situation of women in afghanistan. nothing has changed 20 years of unsuccessful value export. we must finally accept that there are other cultures and value systems. afghanistan will always be a stranger to you. for example, in a 2015 world bank survey, 80 percent of afghan women agreed that their husbands have the right to beat them for such offences as disagreeing, refusing sex, or leaving the house without permission. the world out there is not a green-red pony farm. as always, our approach is shaped by our western perspective and is often completely counterproductive. the german government is planning to take in up to 1 000 afghans a month, who are particularly at risk because of their fight for democracy and human rights. and apart from the fact that our capacity cannot accommodate these people, these people can make a change from within that we cannot. we have to finally stop deciding out of western arrogance what's good for afghanistan, what's good for the rest of the world.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is important that we do not forget the situation in belarus, despite russia's brutal war of aggression in ukraine, because the destinies of these two countries - belarus and ukraine - are closely linked. only when putin is defeated will lukashenko's rule come to an end. just like the people in ukraine, the people in belarus are true fighters. they have long fought for freedom and democracy, for a better future for their children, for a future free from terror and oppression. they pay a high price for these basic values, which are also our own. tens of thousands of people were arrested, imprisoned and tortured by lukashenko's henchmen. over 1400 belarusians ordinary citizens like you and me are now being held in dungeons as political prisoners. belarus is occupied by russia, just like ukraine. lukashenko allowed putin free access to ukraine from his territory. the betrayal by the lukashenko regime is something that ukrainians and the rest of the world will never forget. the world will never forget the hundreds of missiles and drones fired from belarus, which have taken countless innocent lives in ukraine. but the world will also remember the names of those who died in belarus, such as raman bandarenka, alexander taraikovsky or vitold ashurak and many others. history teaches us that sooner or later the regime will fall either before the international court of justice or in the end by its own people. lukashenko will be no exception to this.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a humanitarian catastrophe is unfolding in the congo. six million people have been internally displaced. two and a half million children are malnourished. my dear colleagues, we cannot turn a blind eye to this. and all this because there is an armed conflict in the congo, which is sometimes supported by external forces, as i have just said. this violence must stop. the rebels, who are backed by other countries, must be disarmed. but above all, ladies and gentlemen, the atrocities committed in this country - especially sexual violence against women, which is being used systematically and as a weapon of war - must stop and all those who commit such crimes must be brought to justice and be judged.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the humanitarian situation in eastern congo has worsened dramatically. in accordance with the cotonou agreements, the european union must join the international mediation efforts to bring peace back to this part of the territory. at present, nearly 6 million internally displaced persons in the drc are living through this conflict, which is characterised by unprecedented brutality. for two decades, each armed group, including m23, has been responsible for massive human rights violations with impunity. these violations destroy lives and livelihoods. atrocities are being committed against civilian populations. the most common crimes are murder, rape and kidnapping. innocent civilians are caught in this whirlwind of violence and displacement. the number of children enlisted in rebel forces is growing exponentially. so according to dr. mukwege, our 2014 sakharov prize winner, the macabre violence knows no bounds - i quote. this indiscriminate violence affects the entire population without distinction of ethnicity, religion or occupation. rape as a weapon of war, kidnapping and sexual abuse are commonplace. the increase in violence is also blocking the flow of substantial humanitarian aid. it is essential to protect the present and future generations who will be traumatised by an environment of such violence. we can only hope that all the belligerents will be able to start negotiations and sit down at the table so that peace can return.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not let me start by making one thing clear: just because the wolf was extinct in western europe, it was never an endangered or even threatened species. the survival of canis lupus has therefore never depended on its being forced into densely populated areas by strict protection regulations. brandenburg now has the highest density of wolves in the world. in 2020, 4 000 wolf-eaten farm animals were recorded in germany alone, 40% more than in the previous year. and now you seriously wonder why acceptance of the wolf is declining - not just among farmers. as a veterinarian, i recommend that all office wolf lovers take a look at the damage done by the wolf. half of all wolf attacks occur on protected pastures, and herding dogs are becoming more and more of the wolf's prey. the pasture must take precedence over the wolf, because without pasture, meadows and rich pastures will be a thing of the past. we therefore support the call for a change in protection status from 'strictly protected' to 'conditionally protected'. we need areas with management measures where wolf populations are strictly regulated, but also wolf-free areas in the sense of protection against danger to humans and animals in urban areas and grazing areas. i am increasingly tired of the fact that we, the rural population, the farmers, are supposed to provide the framework for a far-from-reality romantic wolf zoo for a green-eyed urban population.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the wolf has now refuted everything that has been tried to convince us that it does not jump, that it lives in the forest as an ecological police and feeds on the animals there, that it does not go to large animals such as cattle or horses or that a good fence keeps it away. herd protection and fencing often fail miserably when a wolf or pack of grazing animals tear through past bloodletting. more and more conspicuous wolves are killing thousands of animals every year. the survival of european grazing animals and their keepers is at stake. the fact that grazed grassland is one of the most biodiverse areas has been proven time and again. we must not sacrifice this richness of species for this one species - the wolf. let us face reality and ask the commission to finally do its long overdue homework. the wolf's protection status needs to be adjusted to facilitate wolf management.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i would like to thank you for your kind words. the only difference is that the hornet is protected in the special year. so i would like to ask you: we have a situation now where a lot of young people have mental problems, a lot of young people are struggling with fears about the future, climate change, war. what measures of the commission do you think are important to really help people? what can the european commission really do to support the mental health of young people and to ensure that in europe no one thinks about violence against themselves, no one thinks about suicide, and that we really get a sense of positivity back into the future?
i have to say, madam president, at the beginning of the year, ursula von der leyen asked: what does the eu really mean for our young people? it would have been better to ask: what has the eu done for our young people? because there are clear answers. in germany, over a quarter of all children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, higher than the eu average. in germany, almost 6% of 25- to 29-year-olds suffer from severe deprivation today, twice as many as in 2019. this puts germany in the poorest quarter of the 27 eu member states. only 73% of all germans have a secondary school diploma well below the oecd average of 80%. the german education budget in 2019 was the highest in the eu at almost 230 billion euros or 6.6% of gdp. but the money is only being spent on german language courses for immigrants and the indoctrination of young people. the linguistic and mathematical skills of primary school pupils and 15-year-olds are steadily declining in international comparisons with previous years, for example, for germans compared with europeans and for all europeans compared with asians. the european universities are also falling behind. and despite massive public debt, youth unemployment in many regions of southern europe still ranges between 35% and 50%. the european women have less than 1.5 live births today, while the women in west africa have an average of five. of course you want to bring them all here. the european union is failing our young people too. the fact that young people are now allowed to vote from the age of 16 and that more mps are elected before they have completed their studies does not change this.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this week we celebrated the 70th birthday of the european parliament, which, by the way, is also the average age of a conservative politician in this house. i am obviously joking, but i have to tell it to all of us. we have to be honest. if you listen to the beatles, the foo fighters or limp bizkit, you’re not young anymore. if the people that go clubbing over the weekend are half your age, you’re not young anymore. so the reality and the funny thing about an ageing societies is that if you’re older, you outvote the young or, to say it a bit differently, the closer you are to death, the more you decide about the future. this obviously leads to absurd situations where you have a german chancellor, olaf scholz, campaigning as a full campaign promise to never touch pension schemes. that’s a great strategy if you want to get the old ones. a year of youth won’t change these structural issues. and so we have to ask ourselves, what can we actually do? i think what would really help is to actually give voting rights to 16-year-olds and also to ensure that every 18-year-old across this continent has the right to stand as a candidate for elections. we should prioritise the issues that will have a longer-term effect, which means we should not concentrate too much on the short term. the longer-terms are the ones that will actually affect the people who are young now or that are still to be born. that does definitely include the climate. and then i think as parties, as politicians, we need to make a step, an extra effort, to talk to young people more and to basically show them that it’s more fun to be here to fight against oil and gas than to throw processed food at paintings.
madam president, dear colleagues, when i entered this parliament three years ago, i was president of the european liberals, and in that capacity i had the great honour to travel through 35 european countries. i’ve met many young people from all over europe. i’ve demonstrated for abortion rights in poland. i’ve protested against upload filters. i joined the fight against youth unemployment. all those young people i met had very similar hopes and dreams, filled with expectations for the future. there was always one thing that i heard from them when i was a youth politician, but now also being a parliamentarian: ‘listen to us’. also, in the year of youth, i’ve been to many events, and at every single one of them, i was asked to ensure that this year of the youth will be more than just a show, that it will have a lasting effect, that there will be better processes to include young people. when i hear the disrespect from the colleagues on the right, from these populists, the disrespect for young people and their involvement, i can just say i am so proud that the bundestag, the german parliament, has just approved voting rights for people as of the age of 16. young people want to be heard, young people deserve to be heard and, dear commissioner breton, you should really listen to young people, especially after the year of youth. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card reply. – i think this is actually an excellent question. we have a different situation of youth unemployment throughout the whole of europe. young people have many shared dreams – the first apartment, the first love, and also trying to find a good education, trying to find a job. the fact is the situation varies throughout the european union. but also the fact is we have different circumstances. we have governments that make laws that make it harder for young people to get into employment, that favour older colleagues over newer colleagues. we have different education levels and systems in different countries. i come from a country where we have a different education system that also is very training—based. so i think, especially on fighting youth unemployment, we need to come together to learn from best practice examples to really enable young people into the labour market. because young people are not just cheap labour; young people are the future. young people are the hope for better employment. they are the bright ideas of the future. they are the ones that will create jobs in the future. they are the ones that will create new companies in the future. so it all really comes down to what we bring for education. this is really where i see the member states in responsibility. on the european level, we can ensure, for example, by being against unpaid internships, by having best practice exchange and knowledge trainings and really bringing young people together, that we also help our member states to put young people first.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. we want a transformation to sustainability, and we want safe medical devices. but i get a lot of calls from my constituency from companies: specialized products, such as scalpels for children with limited production and often manufactured by small companies, are thrown into a pot with mass-produced products from multinational companies. the manufacturers then withdraw the products from the market because they cannot meet the requirements, and we cannot want that. we're headed for a huge bottleneck. up to 24 000 allowances will expire by may 2024, but only 6 300 allowances can be issued annually by the notified bodies. we must prevent bottlenecks and the withdrawal of life-saving products from the market. clearly, the present situation is not satisfactory. we need quick solutions for health now, but in the medium term we need to put the regulation on a resilient footing so that this drama does not repeat itself every few years.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have spoken in the last few days not only to those who have worked on this case but also to many colleagues from different groups, and that was a rare commonality. all of us - everyone i spoke to - were shocked by the accusations in this room. and all agreed that corruption is an attack on democracy, that corruption must have harsh consequences - harsh consequences for those who have bribed, harsh consequences for those who have been bribed, but of course also for the eu institutions, which must now do everything in their power to ensure that such events do not happen again. in such a situation, we cannot of course allow a state that potentially attacks our democracy to get visa liberalisation. so first of all, we have to make sure that this process has not been tampered with, and we also have to make sure that we're drawing the right conclusions. we must ensure that we do not enter into negotiations on visa liberalisation now. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
madam president, colleagues, could you wait and sit down for a moment? it’s on human rights, not corruption. thanks for listening. on 3 december, we celebrated international disability day. on 6 december, a few colleagues, me and edf, organised an event on that and the host of that event, ms nicholsonová and her team applied for an accessible room for that event because it was about persons with disabilities, and persons with disabilities were invited. what we got was a room that was not accessible for our wheelchair-using guests. even when i applied for my voting machine, it’s always a fight to get it, and two times colleagues had to vote instead of me – that’s against the law, by the way. i apply now – no, i don’t call the commission, i call for the secretariat – that maybe next year and 2024, and maybe for the next generation, it’s possible to have an accessible parliament in strasbourg and in brussels.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear ladies and gentlemen, dear helena, dear colleagues, thank you for that well—written report on equal rights of persons with disabilities. a famous activist in germany – he’s a wheelchair user – said in a statement: disabled persons are the last to be mentioned and the first to be forgotten. the situation for disabled persons in the eu is still unjust and almost all member states ignoring the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. they have ratified it in different ways, here and there. our role is to push eu legislation so that member states finally implement our rights. the freedom of movement for persons with disabilities must be guaranteed. this is why we urgently need an eu disability card here. i still have a german one. i can’t use it as an eu citizen in france or in belgium when i take the bus to parliament. but the transport must be accessible. otherwise, the card is useless for me and for us persons with disabilities. we also need equal opportunities for persons with disabilities in the labour market. stop funding institutions. therefore, here we call as well on the commission to review the employment equality directive, to align it with the crpd and push inclusive employment. i have many things to add. but let me say something. christmas is knocking on our door and there are so many tv shows in our member states, they are doing something good for us, spending money, millions and millions. can we stop that business, please? we want to have human rights, equal rights, and no charity.
madam president, people with disabilities face structural obstacles and discrimination, and are often victims of violence. by addressing intersectional discrimination, we could take targeted action for vulnerable disabled people, such as women with disabilities from minority backgrounds, who are most affected. unfortunately, faced with a double intersectional discrimination, they suffer violence and are often excluded from basic services such as education, health and employment. there are also disabilities that are not visible from the outside but remain a real constraint on the individual. this vulnerability linked to gender and disability creates an environment conducive to abuse and various forms of abuse. it is our duty to intervene to put an end to this injustice. we need to recognise the intersection of violence, gender and disability that women and girls face, so that we can adopt more inclusive response strategies. we also need to remove restrictions on legal capacity that impede the rights of people with disabilities to ensure affordable, safe and effective access to justice. i therefore invite you to support us on the next european day of protest for the equality of people with disabilities, to give them a voice and to make inclusion a real priority.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have met many allies in the fight against the climate crisis in the european parliament, and we have heard many stories, such as that of the nigerian climate activist who cannot continue his studies because floods have not only killed hundreds of people in his country, but have also destroyed his university. we heard from the maldives environment minister who talked about how hard she's trying to do her job under the circumstances, but now she knows that her daughter can't be sure she can continue living where her family has roots. and it is precisely in this context that we must ask ourselves: what have we achieved at this climate conference? i would also agree very clearly that the success of the agreement on a climate damage fund in the countries most affected by climate change is on the wealth side. because it's an important step towards global climate justice, and it allows us to help precisely where, for example, someone can't go to school because their university is underwater. this is a major success. the only reason for this success is that we have a vice-president of the commission who was also there with a mandate to negotiate politically. i think it is very important to emphasize this again. but it's not enough to just treat the symptoms of the climate crisis. we must fight the causes. and here sharm al-sheikh stepped in, if not backed out. we have failed to set a clear roadmap towards 1.5 degrees. we demand it every year, and every year we say, time is running out, and it is really time to look at what homework this means for us in the european parliament, but also in the european institutions. the question is quite clear: what happens now to the rest of the fit for 55 package, to the rest of the green deal, to repowereu? the commission has already made it clear in its communication on the future of the european union that it will not be able to accept the proposals of the council of ministers. so we can actually push the tube there. what is also very important for me to say is that i was very concerned about the human rights situation there. activists were harassed, access was denied, and sometimes even for us in parliament. we must make it absolutely clear that just climate policy can only take place if democratic conditions prevail. we must not allow authoritarian and dictatorial regimes to be greenwashed, just because the next cop is in dubai. and here too the un must do its homework.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 2022 was a lost year for climate action. why would you do that? we're breaking the paris agreement, and we're on a deadly three-degree path to global warming. that's why we said in glasgow a year ago: this year, 2022, we're all going to raise our climate targets to 1.5 degrees. and what's happened since then? i don't know. you, mr timmermans, then said that the european union would not increase its climate targets because we were already doing enough. if everyone acts like this, the planet goes to hell. don't make that mistake again. commit to a higher european climate target: 60% is possible, 65% is necessary. and demand the same from our partners, because 2023 cannot be lost to climate change again.
madam president, we’re talking about persistent challenges and one of those persistent challenges is not well addressed, from my point of view, and this is the change of legislation that we do in this house very regularly, dear colleagues, and this is challenging for the aviation sector because it is a global business, and in this global business we are addressing, on a european level, policies that are changing the market. we have refueleu aviation with the blending mandate. we have, possibly, a kerosene tax and we have now the deal for ets aviation. so all this is raising the prices, and it’s rightly so, because the prices do not reflect the co2 emissions from the sector. but this has consequences as well on the level playing field, on connectivity and on market distortion. so i am happy that in the ets aviation file we included the cef allowances that have been developed and in my office in order to address some of those challenges. but one last sentence as well. as we talk about co2 emissions, there’s no, and i repeat no, single good argument for not doing the single european sky. and you said to us, madam commissioner, you count on us in order to deliver the single european sky. we are ready to do so. but please convince with us the member states that are blocking this. we can solve up to save up to 10% of co2 emissions if we realise the single european sky. we cannot wait for this. we have to use it.
i have to say, madam president, the german constitutional court last week declared the nextgenerationeu package and the raising of a staggering €800 billion of debt to be in line with the eu treaty this despite the fact that three articles of the eu treaty prohibit joint debt raising: articles 310, 311 and 125. after all, the judges complained, almost 300 billion euros had been misappropriated by the commission and misused not for post-covid reconstruction, but for the funding of the absurd climate rescue. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december. so the court is about to provide a blueprint for more debt programs. if the judges had judged that the only right thing to do was to continue the policy by other means, they would at least have been honest.
good morning, commissioner, good morning, dear colleagues, first of all i have to apologise: we have been waiting because the meeting of the conference of presidents is going on and we were expecting to have a result soon that could be announced. to not interrupt the session after a few minutes, we waited, but apparently they are now discussing further items, and we are starting. i will switch to german, if you don’t mind.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive (eu) 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, directive 2010/31/eu on the energy performance of buildings and directive 2012/27/eu on energy performance (com (2022) 0222 c9-0184/2022 2022/0160 (cod)) (a9-0283/2022).
thank you very much, and as i announced in the beginning, of course these shocking and devastating events of the last days will have their consequences, and have to in a functioning democracy. therefore, we now interrupt this session for the president to announce the results of the cop session.
we now continue our debate on the report by mr markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive (eu) 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, directive 2010/31/eu on the energy performance of buildings and directive 2012/27/eu on energy performance (com (2022) 0222 c9-0184/2022 2022/0160 (cod)) (a9-0283/2022).
i have to say that now i have to be a bit more strict on the speaking time because at 10:30 we are expecting the prime minister of slovenia, mr golob.
because we have the slovenian prime minister here at 10:30, i will now close the catch-the-eye list. we have six people on the list and we will not be able to take any more.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 december 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is an important step forward in our cultural relations, because it takes account of the external dimension and welcomes the efforts made by some member states to return looted cultural property. the negotiation process must be undertaken in an approach which respects the positions of the countries whose cultural property has been plundered. it should also actively support the efforts of all member states to protect and restore their cultural and historical heritage. we also note the need to ensure that european funds for the restoration of cultural heritage sites destroyed in conflicts do not benefit those who violate human rights or normalize dictatorial regimes. culture and cultural relations are too often neglected; but it is essential for building strong bonds. we must work towards the integration of cultural exchanges in order to improve our international relations and to strengthen the authenticity of the ties between us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are talking today about the european child guarantee. so it's about tackling child poverty, which is a very important issue. i don't know child poverty from reports, but i have experienced child poverty firsthand. i was poor, i know what it's like to be marginalized and bullied because you're poor. now, we've been talking about fighting it for a long time. we find warm words, and we pass out money with the watering can. unfortunately, all this has not helped: the problems have gotten worse and worse in recent years. in romania, 40% of children are now considered poor, in bulgaria 36, and in supposedly rich germany, the figure is 22, but it varies greatly from region to region. in my home town of gelsenkirchen, 44% of the children are poor. the real reasons are not addressed. as i said, warm words will be found again. but what is not mentioned is that half of all poor children come from families with more than three children, and what is not mentioned is that two thirds of poor children in germany have a migrant background. we must get to the root of the problems. we must give the parents the opportunity to work. we need to create the incentives for them to work. we have to tax incentives. we have to support the children. not only must education be free, but they must be involved in the life of the community. the club, learning the instrument - all this must be free for these children.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, children are our present and our future, i say this as a mother and a grandmother. much remains to be done to ensure a dignified present and future for many children. in italy, 1.3 million children live below the poverty line; the families with more children are the ones most at risk of poverty. with bills and inflation soaring, europe must do more to support the most needy families. extraordinary measures are needed to give a better future to the many children who today suffer in situations of social and economic fragility. europe must show that it is there for its youngest and most vulnerable citizens. there's no more time to waste.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the important thing is that the funds reach the children. and the reality is that today not all the national plans have been presented yet. we know that often the money is not reaching the children. whenever money is allocated to a child, because of his vulnerability, he is susceptible to misuse, precisely because of the ease of manipulation. we are already aware of very serious cases where the institutions have not been vigilant, have not looked after the welfare of the children they are looking after and irreparable damage has been done. in spain, it happened in the balearic islands. it's funny how you distrust parents and don't distrust institutions. without transparency, there can be no trust. funds should always be earmarked for the family, for the parents, so they can support their children. only then would we support increased budgetary allocations to the european child guarantee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one in four children in europe is poor, and we must let that sink in. one in four! that is why we need the budget, of course, that is absolutely clear. that's not enough. and now, of course, we are often confronted with duplicity in this house. i remember writing a report on child support, and over 300 members abstained. that means we could have lifted 30 million children directly out of poverty. but no, 300 members abstained, and they must answer for that. i am the federal chairman of the family party of germany, and i know what i am talking about. we all need to rethink our actions. we owe it to future generations. how can we survive if we deprive the next generation of the means of living, if we allow them to grow up in poverty, if we increase the crime rate, if we do not find a reasonable balance here? we're being called to do something very special here. i'm really tired of just debating and talking about it, and at the end of the day, it's nothing. that is why i am asking you to take action. the budget is very, very small. but let us finally act by reviewing all measures on child justice and really fighting child poverty here.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. imagine if this block here was filled with children, like the rest of the house. then on this side would be a lot of children from poor families, sitting in cold apartments, having a meager breakfast, their shoes broken, their talents not being promoted. that would be the reality, because poverty is spreading to the very heart of society. that's why it's so important that we don't have sunday or christmas speeches here. we have the chance this week to vote in favour of an amendment which will finally put the child guarantee in a better form. we made it through the financial crisis with the youth guarantee. we can do that with the child guarantee. but that means that the chamber will not be as empty as it is now, that we will be talking to everyone in the groups and making sure that this motion is supported this week. this is your chance. this is our chance to make sure that we have sustainable investments in children, because they are our future, and because we can actually achieve a lot with relatively little money.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what's an unsupervised child doing in a candy store? it's very easy to use. and that is what china is doing right now in the european union: it has been greedily lining its pockets for years. the port of piraeus here, the portuguese shares of the national transmission system operator there and a finnish antibody manufacturer. it says today: the same procedure as last year. in 2021, the parliament debated the issue of dependence on russian gas. russian gas seemed to be the only option at the time. have we learned anything from this? hardly. and that is fatal. china's influence is immeasurably greater. it covers much more than just a single area of european infrastructure. espionage, blackmail and loss of independence are the new reality of tomorrow. the eu's current strongest weapon is the screening mechanism for foreign direct investment, which is a blunt sword, with just 1% of investments blocked last year. artificial intelligence and robotics are among the best sellers. my question is: how can the commission ensure that the fdi screening mechanism is really applied more uniformly and effectively by all the member states?
what consideration is given to new technologies which do not yet fall within the category of sensitive research? perhaps you could comment on that again.
mr president, colleagues, let me start by congratulating the belgian authorities and our services on stopping this plot to undermine european democracy. the silver lining in this case is that our systems were tested and prevailed. but it is true, european democracy is under attack by countries who seek to undermine our decision-making processes. it is a shame that a few colleagues, former colleagues and staff went along with this. the vector of attack in this case appears to be an ngo. and for too long, we have turned a blind eye on the lobbying efforts of supposedly non-governmental actors. what we need is a foreign agents registration act modelled on the example in the united states. this means full transparency of who is funding which ngo, their governance structures, budgets and persons of significant control. members who have taken money from ngos have conflicts of interests – it’s not so important which ngo or lobby group. and they should recuse themselves immediately from working in respect of policy fields. as the european people’s party, we want to restore trust in the functioning of our institutions and we need to act now, not with political games but with concrete actions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think it's become very clear that this is a tough week for all of us. i have rarely seen so much emotion in this parliament: so much anger, so much disappointment and also so much genuine shock. but i think we've shown that this attack that's really here on our democracy, on the credibility of our institutions, challenges us beyond these emotions. we have taken the first steps in great unity today. and i would like to thank commissioner ylva johansson for the clear words, because i believe that we have to work harder here as institutions to take action against such corruption, against criminals. it is therefore right that we have proposed, for example, an independent ethics committee for all the institutions. i am glad that the commissioner and the president of the commission are supporting this. we need to get the council to do that. and we have to do our homework here in this house on lobbying by third countries, by companies, etc. we'll get to that. in the new year, we must immediately try to regain the trust we have lost here.
mr president, we have all been elected to represent european citizens and entrusted to protect european democracy. and that is the very foundation of our mandate, and it is so across party lines. and colleagues, until last friday, i was pretty sure that the dissent that we have, the debates that are sometimes hard, but always the core of democratic decision-making were based on political opinions, on different political opinions and not on suitcases full of money. and this trust now is deeply shaken. we are all standing in the middle of a crime scene with offices sealed, colleagues in prison confronted with the allegation that at least one of us has become a trojan horse of corruption and foreign interference. and i have no illusions. autocratic regimes have tried to bribe us before, and they will continue to do so in the future, and that is why i want this inquiry committee of the parliament to know more, to know better what has happened more, to better prevent it in the future, and yes, to build trust again. our response to this scandal, dear colleagues, has to be clear to the inside as well as the outside. we are not for sale and nor is european democracy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have not only a problem with corrupt mps, we have - this case makes it clear - a problem with corrupt ngos. one of the arrested was the founder of the ngo fight impunity, another was the secretary general of no peace without justice. both ngos had practically the same address. these very structures are the gateway to all kinds of corruption. interpol warns that ngos are increasingly used for money laundering. and the german federal constitutional protection service points out that qatar, but also other european countries, systematically finance left-wing ngos in order to destabilize europe through migration, demilitarization, and travel opportunities for islamists and hate preachers. corruption is a permanent problem in this house because there is no political control. as long as the left majority treats the bureau and committees as a closed shop and does not allow all the groups a seat, nothing will change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. corruption is poison to democracy, and many have said so. we also know that the european parliament has been poisoned. i've had a lot of conversations these days, and i actually found it very good that there was a large majority who said, "we're not even trying to say this is a problem of some criminals, and we have nothing to do with it. there were also a few who said: 'this is a group problem and we have nothing to do with it.' i think the most important thing we can do right now is to understand that while few people are to blame for this scandal, we all have a responsibility to make sure it never happens again. there must be consequences for qatar, of course. but there also needs to be an understanding that qatar is not the only state that is attacking democracy. i think we have to look at this from one side: how can we be better as an institution? how can we make more transparency regulations? but how can we ensure that these transparency requirements are respected? there are many members who do not report lobby meetings after three years. that's gonna have to change tomorrow. it's perfectly clear. we must not only change the rules, but we must also look at how we can enforce them. how can we strengthen law enforcement? how can we tackle this difficult task together, so that the credibility that has been so destroyed can be slowly rebuilt?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. corruption is the greatest threat to our democracy. corruption is punishable. and anyone who lets himself be bribed with bags of money should go to jail. but this case does not go away for the european parliament on the day the belgian authorities have finished their work. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this matter, but i am saying that it should be a matter for the member states themselves. but how can it be that members of this house are invited by bloody dictators to luxury trips? how is it that a whole series of members of parliament do not publish a single lobby meeting at all? how is it that 25 violations of the code of conduct were not even sanctioned in this house, there were no consequences? ladies and gentlemen, i am personally quite tired of some people here trashing the reputation of this parliament. it's got to stop. third-country lobbying must be included in the lobby register. the lobbying dates should be published, including those with qatari representatives. and the lobbying rules need to be independently monitored. there must be no more lame excuses, otherwise i fear we will be back here for a few months and have the next scandal. so let's change that now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. transparency, integrity, anti-corruption, fairness, human rights: we have been talking about these issues for months, especially in connection with qatar. first it was about fifa and football, now it is about our democracy in europe. but the demands are the same. we must stand together for our values. we must fight as an institution against outside influence and we must take the magnifying glass in hand now. we have to do our part here. billions for sportswashing, greenwashing with fifa, now 25 million for socialwashing with the ilo. it's only a matter of time before we find more receipts. qatar has money and wants to buy a better image. but the eu is not for sale, and there will be consequences for anyone who puts on a price tag.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we all welcome the fact that croatia is actually joining us from 1 january. it was a good decision and i really congratulate everyone who contributed to it. but it has already been said by the commissioner, by everyone: it was really a serious mistake on the part of austria and the netherlands, bulgaria and romania, which have met all the criteria for years, who have even agreed to do these additional fact-finding missions to show good will to prevent this. this will only strengthen the anti-european, populist forces in these countries. so i heard a little glimmer of hope. but that's not enough, because we always do it this way: it doesn't work promise, it doesn't work promise. we have to deliver that these two countries are really included, because rules have to apply to everyone, in every club. otherwise, we'll erode the base here. that's why we need a clear signal here.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. schengen is without doubt one of the greatest achievements of the european union. it is a zone of freedom and prosperity. the fact that austria has led this movement for reasons of internal policy - and only internal policy - which has led to bulgaria and romania not being able to be admitted is bad, ladies and gentlemen, it is bad and cannot be justified. the truth is that bulgaria and romania are already implementing the schengen acquis in some respects better than the member states which are already in the schengen area. that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and it must be said at this point. that is why i expect this blockade to be abandoned urgently, urgently. we have the opportunity to do so. the council is meeting again and the heads of state or government must correct what the home ministers have done wrong at this point. i want to make that very clear here. we are naturally pleased that croatia, which has already met all these criteria, is now being accepted into the schengen area. but that is only half the battle, ladies and gentlemen. the commissioner is right. it is not just a matter of the confidence of the people in romania and bulgaria, who must trust us to keep our word, but it is a matter of the rule of law and of principles. because on the way to the schengen area, romania and bulgaria meet all the criteria and therefore have a right to be included in this schengen area. i call on the austrian people's party, which has been at the forefront of this whole thing, to abandon the blockade and finally clear the way for romania and bulgaria.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr president, i would like to thank you for making it clear that there are no legal grounds at all for the austrian government's rejection of romania and bulgaria, but that there are other reasons for your clearly breaking a legal procedure on the part of austria at this point. thank you for your candor. you said immigration policy was the issue. are you aware that it is easier to control migration movements if romania and bulgaria are part of the schengen area and not outside the schengen area? do you realise that yesterday in the libe committee we decided on the eurodac mandate, that we are therefore taking clear steps towards a common policy on asylum and migration? that is why i ask you to stop blocking this because it is going ahead, even in the way you want it to.
blue-card reply. – thank you for the question. it’s a very important point because a major part of the issue at the moment has a route which goes through the respective countries we are talking about today, and the major part is also going through the balkans, the western balkans. and frankly i am concerned that it was not the european level, it was even not the european commission in that case, which negotiated with the balkan countries, especially the western balkan countries, in order to control this situation, to control this migration. it was, again, the austrian government who took responsibility for that. i would be happy if the european level would be it that solves european problems and i hope we can achieve such a situation, such a process, as soon as possible.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. you are a psd mp, mrs avram, you are in the governing coalition. you and your colleagues here at the nlp are responsible for this failure. how do you see the role of minister aurescu ? or more importantly, the role of minister bode? do you think they should still be ministers ? do you think their role is helping us romanians at this moment or more confusing?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the fact that internal political debates are blocking the further development of schengen is not only regrettable. a look at european history also shows that this calculation rarely works. the decision last week is damaging, damaging to the political credibility of individuals, but also to the eu as a whole, damaging to the legal credibility, that crucial reliability of procedures, and damaging to the personal credibility, that so important trust between each other, both human and between states. bulgaria and romania have long been compliant. you deserve to be admitted, and not just since yesterday. of course, we can and must all, by the way, do better: from securing the external borders to a reliable asylum and migration package, in cross-border police cooperation, in information exchange. all this is to protect schengen internally and externally. but i said to mr mandl, who is sadly no longer here, that open challenges must be tackled in the legislative acts, where they can also be solved. can we increase our stake here? of course we can, and it is urgently needed. but it is and remains unfair to blame countries that are not even in the schengen area. the time has come to formulate a way out of the blockade. it needs a concrete timetable. we owe this and nothing less to the citizens of romania and bulgaria.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a discussion on the middle east peace process is overdue. it must not be lost sight of, despite russia's war of aggression against ukraine. it is urgently needed, because a two-state solution is more difficult than ever. one thing is absolutely clear: only with the serious efforts of the parties to the conflict themselves, only with the will to find a fair, peaceful solution to the conflict, will peace be possible in the region. a clear commitment, political leadership and concrete action on both sides is needed for a two-state solution. we in the european parliament must also move away from deadlocked confrontations and towards a balanced, constructive role for the european union. the eu can draw on its history as a continent of reconciliation to help find a comprehensive, lasting and peaceful solution. breaking the cycle of violence, violence and hatred is crucial. we must take a firm stand against terrorism and the glorification of violence and break the legacy of physical and structural violence passed on from generation to generation. the key to this is the education system. let's support civil society to work for peace, for human rights, for an educational system that promotes mutual respect and tolerance. it is disappointing that this resolution does not do justice to this.
left). the commission is not the silence on the injustice that has been done to the palestinians for years and decades is indeed deafening. although we have a solution that provides for a two-state solution, and this resolution has existed for years, we do not see two states with equal rights, but instead more and more expulsion and suffering for the palestinians. the settlement policy is being steadily expanded, the israeli government is steadily drifting to the right. more and more right-wing politicians are gaining ground in israel. this is a huge problem. as long as this is the case and as long as we continue to see the rule of law in israel, we must also speak a clear language in the eu. this clear language also means to me that european states may no longer carry out arms deals with israel until the settlement policy is actually brought to an end.
i am speaking on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is clear that terrorist attacks such as the one in istanbul must be condemned. i think there's no doubt about that. it is also clear to me that the military strikes which turkey subsequently carried out in syria and northern iraq, as it were, in retaliation, must be condemned in the same way, because these military strikes are particularly targeting the kurdish civilian population, and that is unacceptable. i expect turkey to give priority to de-escalation. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. and the territorial integrity of iraq in particular must not be negotiable. it is also a setback in the fight against islamist terrorism. because let 's remember: when the war in syria was at its height, it was the kurdish fighters who took the front line against islamist terrorism in syria and fought alongside us against islamist terrorists. we cannot negotiate that at this point. i call on turkey to show restraint. the behaviour as it is being displayed is unacceptable.
on behalf of the left group. the commission is not a christmas carol in germany is "alle jahre wieder" (all the years again), and children love to sing the song. but then i think of the children in syria and in rojava. they are currently singing songs of mourning because bombs fall on their heads every year. once again, the erdoğan regime is using a pretext to attack the kurds in iraq and syria. and every year there is only a muted reaction from the eu. mrs dalli, you even speak of turkey's legitimate desire to respond to the terrorist attack. i ask you: what do the kurds in rojava have to do with the terrorist attack, except that these kurds just a few years ago fought the is terrorists? while the eu is lacking in diplomacy in the face of russia's attack on ukraine, it is becoming mega-diplomatic and silent in the face of nato partner turkey's aggression. why, you may ask? but the answer is obvious: the eu is not worried about the crying children, but about its refugee deal. she's trying to protect herself from people who are running away. a minute is not enough to talk about the double standards of the eu and the suffering of the kurds and syrians. ladies and gentlemen, the erdoğan regime is now looking to expand its attacks on ground troops to maintain its power. we must prevent this, and we can only do so with a clear attitude. the eu could do so much, but it is silent. mr. borrell isn't even in this meeting. this, ladies and gentlemen, is not acceptable.
mr president, dear commission, i’m searching for mr borrell. where are you when it comes to syria? i’m looking for you because i have questions when it comes to syria. syria is a bleeding country and i was there a couple of weeks ago with some colleagues, and we visited different places in north—east syria. and we went, or i went, to the al-hol camp, where thousands of daesh fighters, some of them with european citizenship – by the way, we have to take them back, it’s our responsibility – are imprisoned. and now turkey is bombing north—east syria. it is bombing or attacking al-hol. we fought against terrorism, kurds fought against terrorism, and now that region is in danger. we all are in danger. so stop bombing, mr erdoğan, north—east syria, because syria now is not safe. and if syria is not safe, we are not safe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since 2016, turkey has conducted three major military operations against syria. anyone who has followed erdoğan's actions there closely knows that the latest air strikes are the test balloon for a ground offensive. the fact that the turkish president threatened athens with missiles two days ago should therefore worry us all the more. what about the eu's much-vaunted solidarity with a member state like greece? the commission is giving in to blackmail once again? turkey benefits from the deeds and helplessness of a dilettantishly run union. the values that are so highly praised are not worth the paper they are written on. eu leaders are apparently too busy filling their bank accounts with qatari bribes. is there still time to pursue a policy in the interests of the european nations? because that can only mean one thing: erdoğan must be pushed back to his limits. his army must be withdrawn completely from syria, and his islamist auxiliaries in idlib must be brought to justice in a syrian court. in return, we must normalize our relations with syria and end the useless sanctions that unnecessarily prolong the suffering of civilians. this can not only stabilize the whole region. millions of syrians will also have the opportunity to return to their homeland. a stable syria is the prerequisite for peace in the middle east. and we europeans will also win in this case.
mr president, turkey's unacceptable invasion of syria and northern iraq is having serious consequences for the peoples of those countries, complicating the explosive situation in the wider region and creating the conditions for dangerous border changes. the us, the european union, nato, as well as russia, are covering up and justifying the whole operation as an extension of their rivalries in the ukraine massacre. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to the threats of invasion that it launches against greece, in the context of its geopolitical competition with the greek bourgeoisie, the other "allies" respond "find them", a position that "turns the table" of co-operation in the aegean and the eastern mediterranean, with dangerous arrangements for the interests of energy groups. that's the nature of bourgeois alliances. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for raising international attention to this important matter by placing this debate on the plenary agenda. the eu remains committed to the unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of syria and reiterates its support for a full nationwide ceasefire. let me insist once more, the only path to stability in syria is through a credible and inclusive un—facilitated political solution in line with un security council resolution 2254. with regard to the comment on greece, the eu has repeatedly stressed that hostile rhetoric against greece raises serious concerns and fully contradicts much needed de-escalation efforts in the eastern mediterranean. i recall the hr/vp’s statement of 5 september in this regard. we have repeatedly made very clear that replacing threatening rhetoric with meaningful and sincere dialogue and communication is key for defusing tensions, promoting mutual understanding and developing good neighbourly relations between greece and türkiye, as well as regionally in the eastern mediterranean. we reiterate again our expectation from türkiye to seriously work on de—escalation tensions in a sustainable way. with regard to cyprus, the eu remains fully committed to the comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem on the basis of a bi—communal, bi—zonal federation with political equality in accordance with the relevant un security council resolutions. it is important to avoid any unilateral action that could trigger tensions on the island and undermine efforts for creating an environment conducive to the resumption of the settlement talks where conditions allow. we continue to stress this with turkish officials and with the representatives of the turkish—cypriot community. with regard to the repatriation of daesh children, we are aware, of course, of the issue, but repatriation is a matter which falls under member state competences. so some have decided to take the citizens, others not, and it is up to them to decide how to respond.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mr sven mikser, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement (2021/2236 (ini)) (a9-0274/2022)
mr mikser, you used your whole speaking time also for then, so you have speaking time also at the end.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, your resolution comes at an important juncture for eu—georgia relations. the european perspective granted last june set our relations on an even closer course, building upon the long—standing cooperation anchored in the association agreement. the eu—georgia association agreement remains a strong driver for reform, bringing the country closer to the eu’s values, principles, standards and legislation. the european path sets the bar high as regards the standards georgia needs to meet and brings increased scrutiny and monitoring of reforms. at the same time, it also provides a wider set of tools to accompany georgia in this process. so i start with the important reforms which have always been at the core of the eu—georgia association agreement, and which are also reflected in the 12 priorities: an ambitious and comprehensive judicial reform, ensuring the independence, integrity and transparency of key judicial institutions, as well as systemic and inclusive review of the electoral legislation, remain essential. it is positive that the georgian authorities have submitted a number of legislative amendments to the osce/odihr and the venice commission, and we encourage the full implementation of their recommendations, including on key reform elements that are currently missing in the draft legislation. on the fight against corruption, a new anti-corruption bureau is due to be set up, and i want to underline the need to ensure that this bureau is truly independent. the osce/odihr and the venice commission’s opinion would also be very relevant here. an independent ombud is also a key element in a democratic society. i welcome the fact that the selection process of a new public defender has been, until now, inclusive and transparent, and we look forward to it concluding in the same manner. i hope that the political parties can reach a consensus that also involves a significant number of opposition parties in order to support the next public defender’s independence. in our political dialogue, we have also been following closely the situation of former president mikheil saakashvili, recalling, both bilaterally and publicly, the authorities’ responsibility for his health and well-being, as well, of course, as his right to a fair trial. turning now to the economic sectoral cooperation with georgia, the process of aligning national law with eu law, as part of the association agreement, is overall on track and progressing in these areas. a thorough analysis of georgia’s state of preparedness regarding the eu acquis is due by the end of this year. at the same time, the eu is fully behind georgia’s efforts to become a digital and energy hub across an increasingly important economic corridor between the east and the west. we also understand georgia’s vulnerable position in the current geopolitical context, and we remain firmly supportive of its sovereignty and territorial integrity. we also remain committed to further strengthening georgia’s resilience. i stress that the eu remains a close friend and partner to georgia. this is a crucial moment for the whole country to unite and work resolutely for the common strategic goal of eu membership.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, colleagues, georgia used to be a front runner in reforms within the eastern partnership countries. that’s why it is all the more frustrating to observe the negative trends impacting the country’s developments. we must acknowledge that the progress in some sectoral reforms has taken place, but we cannot ignore the overall state of democratic processes and rule of law. political leaders are deeply dividing not just the political space, but also the society. the ruling party continues to ignore the agreement of 19 april 2021. despite the will and readiness of this house, the jean monnet dialogue continues to stall. one oligarch continues to hold excessive influence over the political landscape. we have seen attacks against journalists. the judiciary is misused for political pressure and the democratic political process continues to deteriorate. to the contrary, we expect that the trumped-up political charges against nika gvaramia must be dropped and he must be released. and the former president saakashvili must be allowed to undergo medical treatment abroad in accordance with article 283 of the criminal procedures code of georgia. overcoming these serious challenges is the key to georgia’s european future, but also in strengthening the country’s democracy, as well as the resilience in light of today’s georgian situation. as friends of the georgian people and the champions of their european aspirations, we must be honest about these developments and not waiver in our support for georgia’s democracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, it is hard for me to admit but georgia, once a poster child of the eastern partnership, is now a captured state. democratic backsliding continues to accelerate. the justice system is ruled by clans, while prominent cases are politically motivated, like the unjustified imprisonment of nika gvaramia. the government has borrowed a page or two from putin’s disinformation handbook. it is spreading lies against the eu, the us, and even against nato. it is nothing but a shameless lie that the west wants to drag georgia into the war. media freedom is deteriorating while pro-russian radicals are allowed to unleash violence on the media and minority. the root of this democratic decay is none other than the biggest oligarch of the country, bidzina ivanishvili. ten years ago, he promised an amazing democracy but delivered a captured state. because of all this, georgia did not get the candidate status. the eu integration is in georgia’s constitution. and those who fail will have to answer to future generations. and, of course, we need to free misha for humanitarian reasons.
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. bringing georgia into the eu is another attempt to extend the external borders to asia. the problems in europe are not nearly solved. the new expansion project will be a real strain on the forces. there's not even a land connection to georgia. the eu's borders would be extended to russia, turkey and azerbaijan. not only is the potential for conflict with such neighbors enormous. it also opens the door to new migration flows. because what erdoğan and lukashenko have already done, others will try to do: blackmail the eu with ever new migrants. each additional member state will make it more difficult to protect the schengen borders. this is bad news for most european citizens. who else besides us here represents the citizens who elected us? the european commission certainly does not. should georgia be the next country to collect billions from brussels? the enlargement process must be stopped or the eu will tear it as such.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, dear commissioner, in view of the kremlin’s illegal war waged against ukraine, the european parliament’s involvement in and support to georgia has become even more crucial to the stability of the region. georgia is one of the founding members of the eastern partnership and remains a key partner of the european union. however, i would like to highlight a few short- and long—term objectives of our work together, which still remain to be achieved. first, the inhumane detention of former president mikheil saakashvili must come to an end, as a sign of political appeasement. mr saakashvili’s release has been requested several times, and his worsening medical condition leads me to renew this call. his condition must be treated abroad as soon as possible. from this place, i would like to welcome mr saakashvili’s family, who are present today in the gallery. second, russian propaganda and disinformation campaigns are swiftly spreading in georgia and are objects of political utilisation. these two issues are not acceptable for a candidate country, especially in the current context, and should be addressed immediately. if they are not resolved, georgia should not be granted candidate status.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, georgia is part of europe. georgia belongs to europe. but as we have heard tonight, to be granted eu candidate status, georgia needs to successfully address the 12 key priorities indicated by the commission. the georgian bid for membership will continue to be assessed based on its own merits and its success in implementing all the necessary reforms. unfortunately, the tense political situation hampers the country’s development. i want to make five remarks. first, political stakeholders need to refrain from any divisive and aggressive rhetoric, and unite their forces in order to increase trust among all political and institutional actors. second, the excessive influence of vested interests in economic, political and public life needs to be eliminated. third, georgian authorities need to ensure media freedom. this entails editorial independence, transparent media ownership of pluralistic, impartial and non-discriminatory coverage of political views. fourth, political leaders in georgia must stop aggressive verbal attacks against members of our european parliament and representatives of other partner countries. and finally – and this is also personal for me – as chair of the foreign affairs committee, i call on the georgian authorities: please, please release former president saakashvili and allow him to undergo proper medical treatment.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, i had the privilege to visit georgia with the subcommittee on security and defence of this very parliament earlier this year, in april. mr olekas, our colleague, who is also present in this debate, was always a part of our parliamentary endeavour there. we were standing at the border to the occupied territories, abkhazia and south ossetia. and when we read the title of this very discussion today, ‘annual implementing report on the eu association agreement with georgia’, we have to state that this is not any annual report. it’s a report in a very specific year, in a year of the so-called shift of paradigms, as all the experts say and as all of us in political life experience and georgia is more or less at the frontline of the free world, of the western world. georgia has a clear tendency towards the european union, european values. a lot has to be done in terms of reforms when it comes to the rule of law, when it comes to fighting corruption, when it comes to also proper political competition, not political fight on a sometimes basis of hatred in the country, when it comes to media freedom. but one could feel and can feel in georgia that there is a clear european attitude in the population, and as the other parts of the eastern partnership, meaning here ukraine and the republic of moldova, georgia can become an eu member state in the future undergoing these reforms. and we have to run for that even more than in the past due to this shift of paradigms.
a uachtaráin, it’s always interesting to listen to the perspectives of meps who go and visit a country and to hear what they have to say. and in that regard, it was interesting to listen to colleagues speaking about georgia. obviously, because of the war in ukraine, things have changed dramatically, and more and more countries in an eastern neighbourhood see not just their economic viability, but their actual viability per se, as being guaranteed only by joining the european union and that is something which we should be proud of, but something we should facilitate. and i think in relation to countries like georgia, they should be given a time-limit by which they reach the standards required. having countries like georgia and moldova and others on a list ad infinitum, stretching them out, is not fair to them. so, there should be a time limit by which they’re told: you reach these targets by then, otherwise, you wait for another ten years. but you need some type of certainty, and i think that’s what georgia needs now, because they would be very valuable members of the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today testifies to our continued engagement and desire to see georgia succeed in its reforms and on the european path. but we need also georgia to work hard and deliver on these reforms, particularly on the 12 priorities, in an inclusive process involving the opposition and civil society and consulting european partners. it is the only way for the country to advance on its chosen european path for the benefit of the future of all georgian citizens who expect their aspirations to be met. with regard to what the eu has done on the saakashvili case, we have consistently stressed both in private meetings and publicly that the georgian authorities have a legal responsibility to ensure the health of all detainees, to provide adequate medical treatment and to respect their fundamental rights, in line with georgia’s international commitments. hence, the georgian authorities are responsible to act if the health condition of mr saakashvili is in critical condition. the eu has repeatedly urged the georgian authorities to implement recommendations by independent medical experts and to implement the interim measures issued by the echr. throughout recent months, and most recently on wednesday last week, we commented publicly to the media that the responsibility for the health of mr saakashvili rests with the state. this is not as a matter of political choice, but as a matter of fundamental human rights. with regard to a timeline for georgia to join the eu, as you know becoming a member of the european union is not something that happens overnight. it is subject to a thorough process involving substantial work across all membership criteria. so the pace of accession depends on the progress in reform, first and foremost in the fundamental areas, starting with the rule of law. right now, georgia is encouraged to address the 12 points outlined by the european commission in order to receive candidate status. the council has invited the commission to report on the fulfilment of these steps and priorities as part of its regular enlargement package in 2023.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 december 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. this report has come at a historic turning point for georgia. on 3 march this year, georgia submitted its formal application for membership of the european union, and in june this year the european council decided to recognise georgia's prospect of joining the european union. georgia needs to address the list of priorities before it can be granted candidate status. the adoption of the necessary measures before the next assessment by the european commission should be the general objective of all political forces in georgia. this is a historic opportunity for georgia that must be seized. political momentum is needed to support the clear support of the georgian people for the integration of their country into the european union. we also need to move beyond political polarization, which only serves to harm the country. to this end, georgia also has the opportunity to work closely with ukraine and moldova, as all three countries are seeking eu accession. i acknowledge the strong support of georgian society for ukraine and call on the georgian authorities to maintain a common foreign policy line with the eu in support of ukraine and to respect eu sanctions and ensure that there is no circumvention by georgia of international sanctions imposed as a result of russia's war of aggression against ukraine.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on relations with asean in the run-up to the eu-asean summit in december 2022 (2022/2999 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, today’s debate is a good opportunity to consider the european union’s relations with asean in the lead—up to the eu—asean commemorative summit on 14 december in brussels. the summit will bring together, for the first time, heads of state and government on both sides and will be an historic occasion to celebrate 45 years of dialogue, relations and our strategic partnership with asean. in fact, to reach this milestone of becoming strategic partners two years ago on 1 december 2020. to recall, we have a strong and long—standing relationship with asean. the eu and asean are the two most advanced regional integration organisations in the world. the eu is asean’s third—largest trade partner and second—largest investor. the eu is a top development partner for asean in support of regional integration as well as with asean member states bilaterally. the eu also continues to seek enhanced eu participation in all asean—led security fora such as the east asia summit and the asean defence ministers’ meeting plus. the summit will offer a political forum for the eu and asean to demonstrate a shared political determination to address the impact of multiple regional and global crises, including the russian aggression in ukraine, myanmar, the climate crisis, as well as our joint attachment to international law, multilateralism and internationally agreed norms and standards. the summit will also be an opportunity to explore synergies between the eu’s strategy for cooperation in the indo-pacific and the asean outlook on the indo-pacific. our indo-pacific strategy specifically highlights the centrality of asean. at the summit, leaders are expected to endorse a joint leaders’ statement as a main deliverable of the summit. the joint leaders’ statement will showcase our broad cooperation on trade, connectivity, security and climate change, as well as seek leaders’ guidance for further cooperation. in addition to the joint statement, leaders are expected to endorse the new eu asean plan of action 2023—2027, which outlines priorities for eu asean cooperation. further deliverables are being prepared, such as support on connectivity under the global gateway, including a team europe initiative on sustainable connectivity, global gateway projects put forward by member states, the eu—asean comprehensive air transport agreement, as well as further investment projects such as the asean catalytic green finance facility. we also expect to use the occasion of the summit for the signature of two bilateral partnerships and cooperation agreements with malaysia and thailand. ahead of the summit, several side events will take place. on 12 december dg intpa and dg eac are organising an event on eu—asean people—to—people cooperation in higher education. on 13 december dg intpa is organising an eu—asean youth forum which invites youth to discuss about priority issues for eu—asean relations with eu and asean representatives. in the afternoon of 13 december, the eu—asean business council organised a business summit and the president of the european council, several key eu commissioners and asean leaders attended the event, along with numerous european business leaders. this broad agenda of context shows the depth of our partnership, a partnership that is more important than ever, because the future of humankind will be decided in the indo-pacific.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that we have had a successful year for relations between the european union and the asean countries. together, we signed this year the world's first air transport agreement between two large blocs of states, namely the asean region and the european union, which will allow people from both regions to be better connected. the new eu-asean energy dialogue and the european union's efforts to support the transition of asean countries to clean energy are further positive signals from this year. at the same time, we are committed to the common objective of continuing to develop our parliamentary relations. we must continue to press for the establishment of a joint parliamentary assembly between the european union and the parliaments of the asean countries. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. more than 60% of the world's population call asean countries home. at the same time, 40% of the european union's external trade is carried by sea through these 10 countries. the peace, security and stability of south east asia and the region as a whole are therefore fundamental for our partners in the asean countries, but also for us. in practical terms, this means: we are not only achieving our goal of getting rid of a strategic dependence on china by slowing down economic relations between the european union and china - we should not do that - but we should reduce dependence in particular by intensifying economic relations with other countries. and that's where the economic potential in the south asian and southeast asian countries really lies. for the past ten years, the european union has been trying to conclude trade agreements with various asean partners, sometimes with success - as with singapore and vietnam - and sometimes on the spot - as with indonesia, thailand, malaysia and the philippines, to name a few - in countries which, as in the case of indonesia, with its 270 million inhabitants, offer us enormous opportunities. beyond agreements with individual countries, we must also push forward the negotiations for a block-to-block trade agreement between the european union and asean. the new partnership agreement between australia, new zealand and asean is a striking example of what is possible when the political will is there. we've been too lazy here for too long. the commission is now called upon to make rapid progress in all areas, on trade, but also on climate, security, energy and human rights. the potential is there. now we must lift this together.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. madam president, as the eu-asean summit begins tomorrow, we will be marking 45 years of diplomatic cooperation between our regions. our cooperation covers a wide range of areas, on peace and democratic principles, on respect for human rights and on cooperation on trade agreements and their important chapters. trade agreements between us have over the years ensured economic prosperity in both regions, but they have also improved workers' rights, secured ratification of ilo conventions in asean and introduced several important environmental requirements, most recently in the trade agreement with vietnam. but there are also countries in asean which are still compromising on democratic principles, human rights and the conditions of workers. we still have a long way to go before we get to where we need to be. i therefore wish to stress, as vice-chairman of the european parliament's delegation to asean, the importance of the eu continuing to uphold and promote democratic rights.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, commissioner, we have had a strategic partnership with asean for two years already, and we in the eu and asean indeed share important objectives in the new geopolitical landscape. we can mutually benefit from alignment in important policy areas, not least in sustainable development and sustainable trade. the worsening situation in myanmar since the military coup of 1 february 2021 must feature as an important topic in the summit tomorrow. even asean must clearly and unequivocally take a stance early on regarding an exercise that the state administrative council, i.e. the military junta, has planned for august 2023. they call it an election, but it is not an election and it cannot be called as such. in the recent asean summit in phnom penh, we saw an opening for other stakeholders and the international community to work together to solve the crisis of myanmar. this is very welcome. indonesia, as the next holder of the asean chairmanship, is in a key position. the eu needs to extend capacity building development to the democratic forces in myanmar, and i am talking about the national unity government, the national unity coordination council and the ethnic organisations. capacity to govern and uphold an administration requires knowledge, skills and resources, and we need to do this to make real the vision of a genuine federalist and inclusive democracy that myanmar will one day be. this needs putting the building blocks in place today.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, dear commissioner, tomorrow the eu will celebrate its 45—year—long relationship with asean with the first ever eu—asean leaders summit. as a member of the asean delegation, i am particularly pleased to see that the new plan of action for 2023—2027 includes stepping up cooperation between the parliaments of some member states and our house. since the upgrading of their relationship to a strategic partnership in 2020 and the strengthening of the eu’s indo-pacific strategy in the region, bilateral trade between the european union and asean countries has been consistently growing. as the second largest source of foreign direct investment for asean, the eu plays a key role in the region’s development. in this context, i would like to call for a stronger and more critical stance from asean leaders with regard to the russian aggression in ukraine. additionally, the eu must ensure its core values, such as respect of international law and human rights, are upheld globally throughout its partnership.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to start my speech at the asean summit with a clear message: do not abandon the people of myanmar! the brutal military coup of february 1, 2021 is no longer present in our media. the war against our own people continues with great severity. what is the asean community doing about this? what role does this play at the eu summit? what help are we giving to the refugee camps in thailand? southeast asia sounds beautiful to many. we talk a lot about economic cooperation and there is a great desire to find new economic partners for the eu. but the association of asean members for human rights (aphr) has repeatedly stressed to me how much democracy and human rights are under pressure in almost all the countries of the region. the military in thailand, the duo of dictator sons marcos and duterte in the philippines, the growing 'green wave' of conservative islam in malaysia and indonesia, the dictator in cambodia and the authoritarian reality of government in laos are part of the reality that is sitting at the same table with the eu at this summit.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, tomorrow, as so many speakers have mentioned, our heads of state and government are commemorating 45 years of the partnership between asean and the european union, a partnership that was upgraded to a strategic level just two years ago. if the relationship between the two most advanced and integrated regional organisations in the world really is to be strategic, issues of concern to the one ought to be considered an issue of concern to the other. having said that, tomorrow’s summit offers ample opportunity to strategise the elements of our future security and defence cooperation at a time when international law and maritime security are increasingly being subverted. like the eu, asean does not attempt to undermine multilateralism. we stand united in our conviction that trade and security should follow rules laid out in international agreements. with the eu being asean’s third largest trading partner and its second largest investor, a region-to-region free trade agreement remains the common long-term objective. in the meantime, let us make full use of existing free trade agreements with vietnam and singapore. i encourage further progress in the negotiations concerning the comprehensive economic partnership agreement with indonesia, and we should also remain open to a resumption of bilateral negotiations with thailand, malaysia and the philippines when, of course, right conditions are in place.
madam president, dear colleagues, the commemorative summit that brussels is preparing for, with the asean community, offers an opportunity for reflection of how serious we really are with our strategic partnership. that sounds nice, but how strategic is it really? we learned today from the media that the two sides have not been able to agree on common language about taiwan or issues around taiwan. so i think we should not fool ourselves. that strategic partnership is still much more of a promise and an aspiration than it is a reality. and i think we should clearly identify priority projects to make it a real strategic partnership. i think one of them would be, as mr mcallister said, a region-to-region fta. one of them would be cooperating on trusted connectivity projects and one would be systematic cooperation in international organisations.
madam president, the eu-asean summit in brussels tomorrow highlights the high level of their relations, which are now 45 years old. asean has been considered a strategic partner of the european union since 2020, as has already been said. the historical, political and economic links between these two areas of integration are very important. in this multipolar, complex and conflicted world, it is very positive for the european union to have a partner like asean in such a dynamic area as the indo-pacific. we must also work together to bring an end to the russian war of aggression in ukraine, which is a very serious violation of the basic principles of international coexistence. i would now like to refer to a country as important as the philippines, a founding member of asean and with such deep historical ties to spain, my country. the philippines is a staunch ally of the west that has voted with us, with the countries of the european union, at the united nations condemning russian aggression. now, with president marcos in the philippines, a new political phase is opening up in this country in which i am confident that the rule of law and respect for human rights will advance. i have the hope, the firm hope, that the murder in 2020 of the young spaniard diego bello, a galician like me, will not go unpunished and that the arrest warrants issued in march this year by the judicial authority against the three police officers suspected of murder will soon be executed. this crime, which has moved spanish public opinion, must be punished. the criminal process must not remain blocked. the philippine law enforcement agencies have to act. diego bello's parents deserve to be brought to justice.
a uachtaráin, the eu and asean are each other’s third largest trading partners after china and the us. but so far, the eu has only free trade agreements with two asean members, singapore and vietnam. as a member of the delegation for relations with the countries of asean, which i like very much, i was happy to attend the fifth eu-vietnam interparliamentary meeting last week to discuss the state of play of the trade and investment relations. fostering open and fair trade with the asean region, based on mutual economic and shared values, should be a strategic priority for the eu. we must ensure that european businesses, including smes and consumers, can benefit from the dynamic market of approximately 660 million consumers that the asean region represents. i welcome, in particular the eu’s global gateway strategy to support the development of infrastructure and investment in smart, clean and secure links in digital energy and transport sectors globally. finally, diversification and having resilient supply chains must be at the top of the eu’s agenda, and asean will play a big role in that and hopefully there is a very successful eu-asean summit.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the eu-asean partnership has great potential. i am convinced that the european union will not be able to continue its efforts to promote the development of the countries of the region, and i am convinced that the european union will not be able to continue its efforts to promote the development of the countries of the region. the eu is one of many actors in low and middle income countries, including china, arab investors, australia and the usa. we must act as europeans, together, decisively and strategically. i therefore appeal once again to all those involved in the council and the commission: turn the idea of a global gateway as a european response to, among other things, the chinese silk road into major strategic projects. it won 't work . i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. you need to rethink. get the experience of the european economy on board. you should finally put the business advisory board for global gateway in place. we do not need new, cumbersome bureaucratic structures. we need an analysis with our partners of what they need in the area of sustainable economy. we need financing and insurance from our banks and european companies, which are also implementing these projects. let us get to work, ladies and gentlemen!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ukrainian winter is brutal, and therefore the most important message must be that we are helping the many ukrainians who have been enduring weeks of minus degrees without electricity and water. putin is deliberately destroying ukraine's energy infrastructure, and ukraine needs our solidarity now more than ever. that is why it is good, and i want to start by praising the fact that the 18 billion euros of financial aid for ukraine is coming. orbán's blackmail has failed, and that's the good news for the end of the year. the democratic europe must stand together. we need more ways to prevent vetoes from autocrats like orbán. the unanimity of the council is a fundamental problem and must be overcome. we need more european solidarity, solidarity with the many millions of europeans who no longer know how to pay their bills this winter. we need a european gas price brake that reduces energy costs for all people and businesses. we need a european investment fund to strengthen our industry and create green jobs for the future. we need a european response to china and the united states. it's good that the us wants to make its industry cleaner and more innovative. now we have to look. it is very good that you have once again underlined your readiness to do so here today, commission president von der leyen. we now need to get the council moving. we need leaders who are prepared to formulate bold european responses and to overcome the nationalist petty-bourgeois. this summit cannot end in failure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is the result of an ideologically blinded energy policy. this is the result of green policies, of the green deal, as it were. freezing in the home, office and public buildings. but energy conservation and the threat of energy rationing are merely the direct consequences of their carbon tunnel vision, ridiculous, volatile renewables and a sanctions policy that harms us first and foremost. this energy policy is the back-winding of our entire modern civilization, it is its antithesis, so to speak. - what about you? ah, mrs. von der leyen, has obviously already begun the retreat into her presumably warm office. and you, the european council, your unelected european commission with legislative powers and unfortunately also a majority in the european parliament and your policies are a travesty for all citizens.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, the us inflation reduction act is a misnomer. the federal reserve is taking care of inflation and, unlike the ecb, appears to be succeeding. the act itself is promoting new energies, including nuclear energy. but, above all, it is a protectionist measure to promote us industry and to attract foreign and especially eu investment because soaring inflation and energy costs weaken eu-based producers. the eu’s response has been predictably weak. eu leaders are appealing to the us not to put america first, while they are putting europe last. the eu is using covid-19 and the ukraine war to accelerate its own self-destructive climate change and pro-migration policies, which make us a laughing stock of the whole world. the chinese even have a word for it, baizuo, europe’s ‘woke’ ideology, which compulsively draws us to self-destruction in the way a moth is drawn to and consumed by the flame. europe has recovered from two world wars, but we will not recover from baizuo unless we face the reality of our decline and put our economic interest and our own people first. for, as immanuel kant said, ‘ought implies can’ and, as machiavelli noted before, we often have to make tragic choices between saving ourselves or others: it is called the truth.
madam president, on both sides of the atlantic we need green transition and a green, decarbonised economy. and we neither want a trade war over the inflation reduction act nor a subsidy race. and yes, the wto can check the inflation reduction act, but what we need especially is a transatlantic climate alliance and quick decisions to strengthen the green european industry. therefore, let’s talk about carbon contracts for difference. the first german ccfd will be granted in 2023, and we need those instruments at eu level as well. for that, we have to increase the ets innovation fund and shift its focus from technology innovation to technology diffusion. and let’s talk about state aid. we need simpler rules and faster procedures for companies, but not at ecological costs or risking the integrity of the internal market. so europe’s industry needs can, of course, profit from the first-of-a-kind add-on to existing state rules, and we are currently working on the eu chips act. and let’s talk about the sovereignty fund. we need a european coordinated approach to support private and public investment in green industries. but if we want an eu sovereignty fund, we also need to speed up the introduction of eu own resources because we need sufficient revenue sources.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. 2022 will be a year that will be particularly noted in the history books, including whether it is a decisive year for the stabilization of democracy or for its weakening. we can see that rising energy prices and rising inflation are simply causing many people to have less money in their pockets, and that the conversations before christmas are all about: where can you save, where can you limit? of course, the hardest hit are poor families who have had to turn over every dollar before, wondering whether to eat or heat their home. we see that when we look at food prices, they're going up faster than energy prices are going up. so it is obvious that we have to act here and that we just cannot allow companies to enrich themselves here and actually increase their profits at the expense of people. that is why it is important, as the commissioner has said, that we must make the most of the gains and that we must support the vulnerable groups - those who need it most - much more than we have done so far, so that this crisis does not become a crisis of democracy. that also means we have to boost wages. but in addition to increasing wages, we need support measures for these groups, because that alone cannot do it. that is why it is important: we need an initiative to implement the minimum wage directive, which has two years to be implemented, sooner, so that we can really put more money in the pockets of those who need it most. let's do this
the commission has already done so. the eu is in stagflation: zero growth with eu-wide inflation around 10% and in some regions above 20%. that is why we must raise wages, tax profits more and stop speculation, so to speak. but you can't stop speculating. we need higher wages, but they are known to drive inflation, and profits should be taxed more when prices rise more than costs. the eu is pretending that the war in ukraine is to blame for everything. in fact, it is your climate policy and the so-called monetary policy of the ecb. because prices were already rising before the war. the fact that russian gas is now running low is not russia's fault, but the fault of your sanctions and acts of sabotage against the nord stream pipelines, which you do not want to investigate but to conceal. and germany had the highest electricity prices in the world a year ago. furthermore, under draghi and lagarde, the ecb increased the money supply by at least 70%. every preschooler knows that prices go up when the central bank creates too much money. so: end your senseless climate policy, which has zero impact on the world's climate with an eu share of 8% of global emissions. contain the ecb, which only knows how to save the eurozone through inflation, and end the economic sanctions against russia, which harm us more than vladimir putin. in other words: do everything differently from the last ten years and do nothing as before!
mr president, people are paying for their choices in terms of more expensive groceries, higher energy bills and a much higher rent. so we are talking about a real crisis of purchasing power. not only have wages been lagging behind productivity growth for years, inflation has also been lagging behind for years. so that's really different. we need to raise the minimum wage faster. i would like the commission to call on the council and the member states to implement the minimum wage directive quickly. our dutch government would rather have a bunch of bonuses and allowances that people have to struggle through than a minimum wage at a really adequate level. but you shouldn't be dependent on bonuses when you work. as i stand here, i'm also taking this moment to launch the next call. it's time to push back. join a union. it pays to get together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we've been seeing the price increase for months, that's for sure. but it's important to look at how the price increase changes every month. now, particularly in this month of november, it is quite clear that inflation in the member states that have the euro is being kept very high by the high food prices. that means that we must focus this month on food prices and change the debate, so to speak, and not stick to old issues forever. mr gentiloni, i have noticed - i have looked into this - that the commission itself says that 10% of food in the european union is thrown away. that means that we do not have to spend eternity debating what we can constantly increase and change, but we have to change the structures that exist now and make sure that we do not throw away 10% of this food. this would be a discussion, for example, about the fact that the minimum shelf life of food products changes liability. in germany, for example, the manufacturer is liable until the expiry date and the seller after that. we must get the politicians to discuss this and, if necessary, change the liability so that food is no longer thrown away by businesses.
i have to say, madam president, high energy prices, high food prices, record inflation - this is hard on people and businesses in europe. eu member states are doing a lot to mitigate these effects of inflation. the repowereu programme, the alignment with the renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency act, is also now accelerating the green transition, bringing down energy prices and thus working against inflation. we must also act against market manipulation in energy markets and strengthen the supervision of national authorities and the european supervisory authority esma. energy suppliers are not subject to the same financial supervision as traditional banks, and it is a good thing that the ecb has now decided to examine whether the largely unregulated financial trading of energy companies may pose a risk to the financial system. we must now fight with all our might against the high energy prices and against inflation which are making life difficult for so many people in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the energy crisis and the cost of living crisis are hitting people differently. i have already heard that from many colleagues today. the consumer who is particularly hard-pressed, the consumer who is particularly vulnerable, is the most affected. and although many measures have already been taken by the commission and the member states, the cost of electricity and heating is becoming unaffordable for some this winter, and more and more people are threatened by power cuts. it's a really terrible idea to leave people in the dark this winter. but to all the right-wingers who are saying that the green deal or the climate crisis or climate policy is to blame, i say, call your friend putin and complain to him! the green deal is the solution to our fossil fuel dependency. and we in the eu are also rightly proud of our high level of consumer protection. it is now that the most vulnerable consumers need rules to protect them. it is good that the commission has facilitated this declaration between consumer protection associations and energy companies. but all this is neither binding nor long-term. that is why we now need an eu-wide, binding moratorium to prevent power cuts. in the committee on the internal market we also decided on a ban on the shutdown of particularly vulnerable consumers in the reform of the gas directives, and this is something that the member states should join in the negotiations.
i have to say, madam president, officially, one in four people in the eu is at risk of poverty. on average, prices rose by 11.5%, but wages did not. the eu average is 3% real wage loss. so today we can talk about poverty despite work, child poverty, old age poverty, homelessness and horrendously high rents. but we can also talk about the other side of it, about the super-rich and shareholders. the ten richest eu citizens have a net worth of about €539 billion, according to forbes. while the common people are supposed to tighten their belts, they are expanding their power and influence. in every crisis, they make more money out of their money. but money doesn't work, it's the workers who create the wealth. but the working people and the poor are not getting by: heating, butter, bread, vegetables - everything is getting more expensive. the super-rich speculate on all of this and more in their stock market casino. this has to stop. we need a ban on food speculation, a ban on housing deals, a ban on tax havens for the super-rich. it's not about christmas presents or charity for the poor and working people, it's about their rights.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. yes, the cost of living has increased dramatically. and now the eu is presenting itself as the social conscience. the aim is to combat the rising cost of living by raising wages and redistributing them even more. the increasing regulation of social policy the proposals for an eu minimum wage and wage transparency is also presented as social justice. in reality, the eu itself is largely to blame. with the disastrous monetary policy of the ecb and its climate policy. the eu's climate policy is a policy of social coldness. social policy is about protecting the weakest in our society. the eu elite is doing the exact opposite. it has made energy the most important social issue of the 21st century. and now she's trying to cover it up.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the defence of the european union against the abuse of national vetoes (2022/3013 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, if vladimir putin had designed the european union, i think he would have given viktor orbán a veto because it makes it so easy for him to paralyse us, because he only needs to turn one person in the room – blackmail, bribery, cheap gas, i don’t know what, but this is a threat for us. of course, back in the days maybe this might have served to protect the interest of the smallest member state. but i think today in a union of 27 the reality looks very different. it’s no longer to protect minorities, it’s a tool for extortion and blackmail. we managed this time, luckily, we have overcome the veto on the ukraine aid. but we’ll be back at the same point in the beginning of february when we have to prolong the russia sanctions. it will be exactly the same. so if viktor orbán wants to do the deeds of vladimir putin, that’s his choice. but for all of us other ones that want to help ukraine, you know, this should not be the obstacle for us to do it. in times of war, veto on essential decisions is a security threat for the european union. so let’s not keep talking about it. we have discussed this for years in the conference, there is an overwhelming majority of citizens that want this. there is the national parliaments that want this. we here in the european parliament have been very clear we want this. we have taken a vote with a large majority. let’s call a convention, answer to our vote and our proposal under article 48 and let us put an end to national vetoes in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are not making a bad living in the european parliament, i must admit. why is that? why do the taxpayers give us this relatively generous amount? so we can be incorruptible and not have to live off the money of others. impunity is a high good in politics. trust in women politicians is the basis of our mandates, the foundation of our work for our citizens and our voters. but when the european women here see their direct democracy threatened, bribed and shamed from outside, that trust is broken. we have been talking here in our committee for a long time about corruption and the attempts by countries like russia, china and qatar to influence our democratic processes. we should not be surprised if we see renewed attempts. that is why we have set up the inge committee. but the fact that these repeated attempts are successful is shocking. this can't happen. we need to arm ourselves better internally. we have to make a mark as an institution. and i think we should set up the inge 2 special committee as a permanent committee and thus really continue our work of intelligence and investigation in the next legislature.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, foreign influence has many faces, and one of the most shameful ones we experienced in this week in this house by people who haven’t understood what it means to be members of this house. but the most powerful one is still social media, where russian and chinese actors deliberately target democracies with misleading content to influence the public opinion. and the digital services act, which we approved in this house, will give us some instruments to tackle this. and social media networks should be preparing but, unfortunately, they are not. elon musk just readmitted some super-spreaders of disinformation on twitter, abolished the disinformation policy of the company on covid and slashed the workforce by half, in particular focusing on content moderation and integrity experts. facebook cut its workforce by 13%, and that means an increase in disinformation and a decrease in trustworthy information. and that means that almost half of ukrainian independent local news publishers are restricted on facebook. so it’s the brave people of ukraine, to whom we awarded the sakharov prize, that is paying the price for disinformation for foreign influence two times with a hybrid war being waged against them, and with not even being able to access information on digital platforms. this is a scandal and we have to address this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. russia is always in the spotlight when it comes to the issue of "external influence". how come nobody has a problem with other actors? why is it that nobody has a problem with the so-called think tanks like the atlantic bridge, in which journalists are members of virtually all the mainstream german media? here, influence is exerted on supposedly objective and neutral media. this is a disgrace to democracy and should be banned. or what about erdoğan, who has built and maintains over 1,800 ditib mosques in germany alone? here he can deliver his central messages in the mosques and thus directly control the faithful. this is what is known as "hybrid warfare". what about qatar, which can apparently buy even a vice-president in the eu parliament with enormous sums? the fact that ngos are also involved in this scandal shows that we must also investigate their funding. foreign funding, such as that of the last generation climate terrorists, must be banned. if we want to end outside influence, we need to examine all actors impartially.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. last week i was at the conference of presidents and commissioner šefčovič spoke there, among other things, about the problems with the united kingdom. the term 'framework agreement' was used 50 times. commissioner hahn, this is for you and please pass it on to your colleague, mr šefčovič: our framework agreements with european countries are about fundamental rights and also freedom of the press, and you should finally act accordingly. julian assange has been in a british maximum security prison for three years, along with the worst criminals. but julian assange is not convicted. there's not even a trial. if his wife and two small children want to visit him, she has to subject herself and the children to the most degrading physical searches. commissioner hahn, have your wife and children ever been snooped on by prison staff and sniffed by dogs? assange did what the media has to do. he published what other people don't want to read. assange is not a criminal, he is a journalist and editor-in-chief. if what has been happening to assange for years were to happen in poland or hungary, there would be a great alarm here, and with good reason. assange is our framework agreement. his case is more important than tariffs or fishing rights. that's why you're finally putting the release of julian assange on your agenda. otherwise, when it comes to journalistic rights, you shouldn't complain here either.
the commission has already done so. i'm honestly a little bit shocked by some of the speeches -- not all of them, of course. i would therefore like to say that attacks on press freedom do not start when journalists are murdered or threatened, but in my view this starts when we start using parliament to say about some reports: this is not a free press at all, this has nothing to do with press freedom. and the other reports we like, they're great. journalism, freedom of the press, we don't have to like it, we shouldn't even like it. as politicians, it's just important that the press is looking at us, that scandals are exposed, that the right consequences are drawn, that journalism helps to shape public opinion. yes, not every report is accurate, and yes, there are of course organizations that try to exploit or buy the press. but what bothers me is that we have a large majority in favour of press freedom when we are asked: are we all for press freedom, but in practice it is already the case that at the external borders, for example, press reports are called fake news, which is said at once: we do not really need the press to have access here at all. all these restrictions on press freedom we have to address. that's our job. we are not supposed to applaud freedom of the press, we are supposed to enforce it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu cannot be sustainable with this budget. that's why we need an update now. climate neutrality by 2050, the social consequences of the economic crisis, greater responsibility for security policy, industrial policy competition with the usa and china, active partnerships in the balkans and the african continent, digitalisation, species extinction - the challenges are great. the answers to the big questions must be european. the time has come, therefore, to turn sunday speeches into concrete policy, measured in numbers. we need a revision of the financial framework to finance common european priorities adequately. but it's not just about more money. it is also about the quality of the expenditure. there is still far too much european money being spent on climate damage. through our eu budget, we help to promote climate-damaging infrastructure and to prevent species from becoming extinct. we need to make our climate quotas more binding, we need to make non-compliance more severe, and we need to cut climate-damaging subsidies from the budget. that is why we have tabled specific amendments to today's report with the liberals. i would like to make a special appeal to the socialist members in the last few hours before the vote: you are the tip of the iceberg. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is not used to the detriment of the environment.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i recently predicted here that the 2023 budget is not sustainable and will soon burst. i can repeat this today, because today you want to re-adjust the seven-year plan by continuing to pump this huge ball of money, with money that you do not yet have and probably will never have in the amount required with the planned own resources. and then the next year, the exact same thing happens again. dear colleagues, today we should be looking forward to christmas and celebrating the coming of the savior into the darkness of this world. i therefore wish you, despite all the criminal events that are taking place, a merry and blessed christmas. and remember, the treasures of the wise men of the east are completely harmless. they were not for bribery, as with the kings of qatar, but for the honor of the newborn king. may you too rejoice wholeheartedly and without regret in all the gifts you receive during the christmas season.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, every study shows that women work more than men, but they have a lower income – and that’s called the gender pay gap. in the same way, we have a public budget gender pay gap, and in order to measure that gap and to find out what causes this, we agreed in the mff on finding a methodology to measure the impact of the mff expenditure on gender equality. but the method the commission is coming up with now does not draw an accurate picture because it doesn’t take into account any negative impact that major programmes might have. we should be learning the lesson from nextgenerationeu where we have some nice wording on gender equality in the regulation, but we are finding out now that from 70% to 80% of that expenditure goes to one gender and that’s not the gender that has been hardest hit by the covid crisis – women. the result is that nextgenerationeu might even increase the gender pay gap. so we expect strong action on gender equality in the mff review, and we expect that from a commission president who represents european women more than any of her predecessors.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the current financial framework was created long before the covid-19 pandemic and its aftermath, long before the war in ukraine, long before the high inflation or the destabilization of energy commodity markets, with all its negative consequences. there is no doubt that they need to be revised in these new circumstances. moreover, the organisation of macro-financial assistance to ukraine is proof that additional fresh money is needed. but i would like to make two main reservations here about the proposals which also appear in the report. these new own resources, especially those of an environmental nature, are regressive in nature. they are more burdensome for less prosperous countries than for rich ones, and the experience of charging for unprocessed plastic in my country, poland, clearly shows this. and the second serious objection is that there is no wish to introduce a qualified majority for the adoption of the financial framework. commissioner, this is completely unacceptable. we agreed that we would make all financial decisions unanimously. and what you're proposing will only deepen the differences between countries.
madam president, parliament recognizes what it anticipated when it adopted the budget: the budget is insufficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problem, they say, is inflation and war. but where are the effects of sanctions or the speculative profits that generate even more obscene profits for the big economic groups? what about the successive budget cuts in cohesion, national budgets, agriculture and fisheries, while the choice is made to increase military expenditure and programmes which serve mainly the great powers, which is not a cyclical one but rather the result of a political decision and choice. what is required is an effective strengthening of the budget through national contributions based on each country's gross national income, an end to the free-ride to the countries that benefit most from integration, a full reinforcement of cohesion and the structural funds, the elimination of the defense and external interventionist headings, the end of economic and political conditionality and the alignment of investment options with the real needs of each country.
madam president, i would like to thank you. europe is in crisis and the eu has shown its ability to act at this stage. we've invested hundreds of billions in increasing energy production. we are supporting ukraine economically and militarily and we are in the process of forcing down the electricity prices. cooperation and solidarity in the eu are key to overcoming this crisis. but we must also be aware of our limitations. because in this serious crisis, it is our countries that bear the brunt of the burden. it is the national welfare systems that our citizens rely on. the electricity aid is financed at national level. it is important that we have a discussion about the eu budget and how we can make it work better. but we must understand that what we do in the eu must complement what is done in the individual member states. because here and now, it is our countries that support our citizens. it is where we can get help to the most vulnerable groups quickly. i'm convinced that's where our shared resources make the biggest difference in this situation. it should guide the debate on the eu budget.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, it's a physical miracle that life on our planet was possible in the first place. the incredible diversity and beauty of the estimated 8.7 million animals, plants, organisms on our planet is not only fascinating, it's the premise of our life. a million species are threatened with extinction today. the way we occupy space, the way we farm and forest, the way we seal the land, but also our emissions and climate change are driving this rapid mass extinction. the european union must also implement its objectives and its promises for the return of life. we need effective, available and targeted funding for this. that is why we have already set a 10% target for biodiversity measures in our eu budget. the commission must now urgently provide a consistent and biodiversity-oriented methodology to counter this loss of species and finally act with the member states to stop the loss of species.
mr president, when i started in the european parliament, a prominent former member of this house gave me the advice: traditions are meant to be broken. you can imagine that i was a little disappointed when i saw the title of this debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. eu spending is always rising. i always do. similarly, in this report, where financial coverage consists of the collection of 'own resources', it reads 'eu taxes', whereas it is the national parliaments that are responsible for the taxes they collect from their citizens. mr president, traditions are indeed meant to be broken. how wonderful would it be if we could agree on "shrinkage"? or to quote president reagan: our debt is not too high because we haven't collected enough taxes. we have too much debt because we've spent too much.
madam president, dear commissioner, i believe that ms marques and mr olbrycht deserve a congratulation for their work well done. i believe that the mff desperately needed an update. it looks like an old black and white tv screen that we tried to connect to youtube; it’s not going to happen. i’ll give you only one example. in the previous mff, there are about 30 billion for transport infrastructure. with the current numbers and the current prices of raw materials, the project that has been planned will never be implemented. so we need an mff that can cover the requirements of the high inflation, the war, the high prices of raw materials, the new prices of fuel, in order to get the job done and conclude those projects. i believe this is the right direction and we have a last chance now to cover the expectations of the people who are outside this building, just before the european elections.
madam president, commissioner, since the european multiannual financial framework was adopted in december 2020, the world has changed and changed a lot. he just doesn't see who he doesn't want to see. we are now facing a terrible war in europe, an energy and supply chain crisis, a spiral of inflation, a change in monetary policy and, probably, a recession. the scenario on which the multiannual financial framework was based has changed radically. the financial framework of december 2020 is therefore not in a position to respond to the new challenges of december 2022. we therefore call on the commission to urgently review the current multiannual financial framework to make it more ambitious, more flexible and more appropriate to the challenges of the moment. only then can we live up to the expectations of the citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing today the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework and there is no doubt that we need to adapt it. but the truth is that despite brexit, it is unfortunately the highest budget to date. that means we've already tapped into the fullness of this place. we have already added 750 billion to the reconstruction fund. that means that the budget has been adjusted and we must now adjust it again. but one thing is clear: the truth and clarity also include, ladies and gentlemen, and mr hahn is very much in favour of it: all the money we want to raise here, we will take it away from the member states, and they will take it away from their citizens, it will lead to more taxes and more burdens. i think this is the wrong way. i firmly believe that we must start with truth and clarity here. i don't know what crisis is going to come after the war in ukraine, after corona, after the crisis of cheap money, the noise of consumption, that we will finally start saving at home. why do we not take the courage to say: one seat for the european parliament? why are we not courageous enough to say: we are reducing the number of commissioners - all that we have in our hands?
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, one of the issues discussed at the committee last year was the defective block scandal in ireland. we got great support from meps present. having heard their case though, the commission’s first instinct was to run away from the issue, which begs the question: what’s the point in having a construction products regulation if it’s not in force? we ended up at the peti committee because our government wants to bury its head in the sand. that became even more clear this week with the leak of a draft audit carried out by ireland’s national building control office. it poignantly pointed to the fact that market surveillance of construction products is to construction as public health is to medicine. the draft also stated millions are spent on planning with billions on remediation and fixing non—compliances. in comparison, very little is spent on building control, inspection and market surveillance. but none of it made it into the politically sanitised version which the government released. the final report was a whitewash. the commission can no longer run away from its responsibilities. the people’s lives are at risk. we’re all talking this week about corruption. well, this is corruption, crippling and corrosive corruption. time for the commission to stop talking about it and act. dg grow, i’m looking at you.
madam president, the right to petition is a fundamental component of european citizenship and it is therefore of the utmost importance that the committee on petitions should rigorously examine all petitions from citizens relating to the union's competences. but we have a problem, commissioner, which has already been raised by several parliamentary groups this year: the chairwoman of the committee. mrs monserrat is instrumentalising this committee, giving priority to requests which are either in the interests of spanish nationalism or in the interests of her party, the spanish people's party. for example, we are spending time and resources on repeatedly processing petitions on the school system in catalonia, ignoring that the commission has already said, on all occasions, that the european union is not competent in this matter. i was chairman of the committee on petitions of the parliament of catalonia and it would never have occurred to me to make such a sectarian use of my office. ladies and gentlemen, we need the committee on petitions to stop being an instrument for the national or partisan interests of its chairman and to return to its original role: a democratic instrument for defending the rights of european citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the commission pays special attention to the work of the committee on petitions. we will continue our efforts to improve the speed, quality and pertinence of our contributions to your replies to petitioners’ concerns. i take note that your report insists once again on the link between petitions and infringement procedures. as i said, the proper application of union law is a collective responsibility shared between the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, and the member states. however, the decision on if and when to investigate the potential breach of union law is the prerogative of the commission, and we face the burden of proof in bringing cases before the european union court of justice. on your proposal to set up a one-stop-shop interinstitutional it tool between the commission and parliament to share publicly available information on follow-up actions taken on petitions, we are ready to examine practical options in order to make it happen. for example, the commission publishes its decisions on every step of an infringement procedure on the european webpage. this ensures transparency on the decision-making process, on the type of infringement pursued and on benefits that the resolution of these cases can bring to citizens and businesses. so, we might envisage a link between the europa pages and the petition web portal to help citizens be regularly informed on how the commission is already addressing their petitions via infringement procedures. as regards an interinstitutional agreement between the parliament and the commission, the commission considers the current interinstitutional context is sufficient and appropriate to ensure the efficient handling of petitions. the commission deals with each and every petition received from the parliament. it analyses all aspects of the issues raised by the petitioner and transmits its detailed responses to the parliament. the commission keeps your committee duly informed on how it will pursue the issues raised by the petitions within the limits of its competences. however, i would also like to stress that when we have petitions that are not within the remit of the european union competences, we should be very honest and upfront in explaining this to the petitioners. we commend the parliament’s commitment to respond to citizens’ concerns and the overall parliamentary activity of the committee on petitions, including their reports and opinions, as well as the organisation of hearings and workshops on a wide range of topics. so i am convinced that together we can show citizens that we take their concerns seriously and strengthen their confidence and trust in the european project, particularly in the current international context.
in writing. i would like to thank my colleague, vincze lorant, for his excellent and thorough work. i'd like to highlight two things: in its communication of 14 january 2021, the european commission did not propose the creation of a new legal instrument for the european citizens' initiative minority safepack. it thus ignored an initiative with the authentic signatures of 1.1 million eu citizens. the signatories set out in their package of proposals the aim of improving the protection of 50 million persons belonging to national and linguistic minorities in the european union. it is regrettable that the protection of indigenous european cultures and languages is not one of the european commission's priorities today, nor is the citizens' initiative as a tool for participatory democracy and its credibility. petition no 1056/2016 asks the european parliament to allow petitions to be submitted in national sign languages. the petition is open, and negotiations have been held between the parliament's organs and the late president sassoli, but implementation has been delayed to this day. i ask the honourable members to accept this petition so that in future deaf citizens of the european union can submit petitions in their mother tongue, sign language.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. china has made a massive setback in human rights over the past decade under president xi. in the most recent development, he has now been elected for life. it would take hours to list the barbaric human rights violations in china here, whether it's in tibet, whether it's in hong kong, or whether it's the terrible crime against the uighurs in the xinjiang region. what causes looking the other way is what we are seeing in ukraine. we have no choice but to look at these grave human rights violations in china and to warn clearly and to point the way. the human rights violations in the xinjiang region include the systematic extermination of the uyghur people. it is therefore very important that we as the european parliament look very closely at all the demonstrations taking place in china and support the people there with everything we have, even if unfortunately very limited. china is exploiting its power, arming without external threat, ignoring international law and ultimately building a secret police in the european union. i therefore call on the commission to do everything in its power and also to work with the council to ensure that we become independent of the chinese dictatorship as soon as possible. and that should be our common goal.
madam president, i would like, first of all, to make the statement that whatever ms zovko just said was totally out of scope of the debate. so please allow me to also make a remark a bit out of the ordinary. i have to say that i am quite surprised by the fact that the epp now decides not to table, not to negotiate and not to vote on urgency resolutions. the fact is that apparently, third countries, autocratic regimes, are trying to interfere with us. they are trying to influence with illegal means, with bribery and corruption, the way we work here. i don’t think that our political answer to this should be to no longer criticise their human rights atrocities. so i really think we have to debate this in a proper way and not under the point of the chinese government crackdowns. we have also to honour the human rights defenders in china that we are supposed to be talking about here today.
author. madam president, the situation in chad is alarming. after the death of the president of the republic, the military seized power, suspended the constitution and dissolved the national assembly. thousands of people have demonstrated across the country to demand an immediate return to democratic rule. the repression was brutal. police responded to the protesters with live fire and tear gas. initial estimates put the number of people killed since october at 50, but the actual figure is likely to be higher. more than 1,000 people have been arrested and, according to the un committee against torture, 400 have been imprisoned in the koro toro detention centre in the middle of the desert. most of them were sentenced in absentia to up to three years in prison. conditions in the prisons are appalling. according to the latest reports, the lack of basic amenities, such as clean drinking water, is glaring. torture is still a problem. civil society has prepared a transition plan to restore democratic structures and to get out of this crisis situation. we must not abandon the populations who are victims of violence. we must make the voice of civil society heard, to support the return to democratic structures.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, in europe we take the right to freedom of expression for granted, but people in the gulf region risk their life for it. in bahrain, human rights defender abdulhadi al-khawaja was sentenced to life in prison because he led pro-democracy protests and is still in prison today and our urgency resolution is about his case. but his case is by far not the only one in the region: 34 years in prison for phd scholar salma al-shehab in saudi arabia for her tweets on women’s rights. life imprisonment for the qatari lawyers hazza and rashed bin ali abu shurayda al-marri, who had organised so—called unauthorised meetings. ten years for human rights defender ahmed mansoor in the uae for his social media activism. and lawmakers in iran have just called on the judiciary to sentence protesters to death. for what? for calling for political freedoms and the freedom of expression, and two of them have already been executed. so in every encounter with the gulf region and beyond, we have to speak up on behalf of those who are not allowed to speak up. and we must call for the release of those unjustly detained again and again and again, and especially and continuously in this european parliament. because if we are silent, they will be forgotten in their dark prison holes, but theirs are the voices that the world needs to hear.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is now the second time in a year that we have taken care of a detained xy unknown in the arab world. once it was in the emirates. today it's in bahrain. first of all, i do not think that the european electorate really understands that we are spending our time on such individual cases. the second is that i'm surprised that you always choose countries that are considered relatively liberal in the arab world -- which is indeed in need of human rights reinforcement. we just have to consider the relationships. the fact is that bahrain has been a partner of the west and this union for years, that we have agreements, that we have partnership. why is this partnership being called into question because of one incident? bahrain is fighting for its statehood. iran does not accept independence. and the man so honored here today was involved in a dispute that has called into question the very existence of the state. i think more trust in our partners and less human rights imperialism would be appropriate.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the 30th anniversary of the united nations declaration on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities (2022/3000 ((rsp)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. one thing stands out in the united nations' annual report on the situation of ethnic, national, religious or linguistic minorities: the situation of these minorities is problematic in china, pakistan, india, kazakhstan, turkmenistan, sri lanka, myanmar and in almost all arab and african countries. european countries are conspicuously absent from the report. while it is acknowledged that the roma have suffered excessively from covid, not even the un report can see this as state discrimination. so contrary to what is said on every occasion by left-wing parties in this house, the situation of minorities in europe seems to be extraordinarily good. but the situation is different, and the un report says so, with the situation of christians and jews in almost all non-western parts of the world. they are discriminated against, persecuted and killed everywhere. but unfortunately, most of the house doesn't want to hear about it. it is a matter of compulsion to refrain from even discussing the subject, as in the november plenary session when you did not want the persecution of christians to be on the agenda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. it is not just six socialists who have been bribed by qatar, but the whole left-wing side of this house. that they want to talk about minority rights at christmas time, but consistently deny the rights of the largest persecuted minority in years, is a disgrace.
sorry, ms ponsatí obiols...
madam chairman! in europe there are over 300 different national minorities. we should be proud of this great diversity which characterises the european union. democracy, the rule of law and minority rights cannot be compromised. states that abuse minorities as instruments of power and at the same time have a problematic attitude towards the rule of law are a problem for our society. on the contrary, you cannot fight for the rule of law without fighting for equality for minorities. equality for minorities should be the main objective of the eu and the member states. as a minority danishman, i am extremely disappointed that the new danish government does not mention minority politics in a single word in their new government constitution. it is extremely disappointing that the european commission does not dare to come into conflict with the member states. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is time, it is now, that you come up with concrete proposals to protect our minorities.
madam president, ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities contribute to enriching our european project, not to debasing it. it is our duty to protect them, so that coexistence can flourish on our continent. many studies have shown that minorities, often viewed negatively and compared by the population to the supposed 'norm', are subject to inequalities and discrimination. this is the case of the minorities of african origin, whose history and contribution to peace at the end of the second world war are completely hidden. do you know how many africans died in the concentration camps in germany? no, not at all. he is unknown to our students, whose schooling lasts twelve years. it is therefore time to rehabilitate them and to make the story known to all citizens living on our continent. it is our duty to protect and respect minorities and to give full value to our motto 'unity in diversity'.
i will now give the floor to our colleague ms ponsatí obiols, who has asked to make a personal statement.
thank you, we will take note – it is in the minutes – but it is up to the spanish courts to solve that problem.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on '90 years after the holodomor: recognition of the mass killing by starvation as genocide' (2022/3001 ((rsp)).
before we continue, i have an announcement to make. obviously we have a technical problem with the catch-the—eye procedure at your places. so if you wish to request the floor for catch-the-eye, just raise your hand and we will take your names.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, it was acorns and pigeons that vasyl sieber’s family had to eat to survive the winter; he was six. olesya sunopol was 10; she remembers people eating tree bark, frogs and even earthworms. fedir putyanskyy remembers a boy admitting to eating the flesh of his own mother, who died of starvation. they were just children when the man-made famine killed millions of ukrainians. the holodomor is not a tragedy of one or two families. it is an attempted extermination of an entire nation by the soviet regime. stalin’s brigades pillaged ukrainian villages in search of remaining grain. they were filled with hate towards ukrainians, fuelled by soviet propaganda. we in the european parliament say ‘never again’ to the horrendous crimes of the 20th century. russia tried to write history; 90 years later, putin is now trying to repeat it. the historic parallel is uncanny. just like 90 years ago, russia is stealing the grain from europe’s breadbasket, trying to break the ukrainian spirit. just like 90 years ago, war on ukraine’s national identity is fuelled by hateful propaganda and alexander solzhenitsyn’s word. 90 years ago, ukrainians died on the very edge of europe and europe didn’t even notice it. the world didn’t even notice it. today, we have the choice to take notice and act fiercely to avert a tragedy which future generations will never forgive us for. with today’s resolutions, we call on the russian federation to recognise the holodomor as a genocide and apologise for the crimes committed. slava ukraini!
on behalf of the id group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i was in my mid-20's when i read the book the harvest of sorrow. robert conquest was the first historian to bring stalin's hunger war against ukraine to public attention. he estimated that by the early 1930's, some 12 million people had died of hunger or hunger-related diseases. as is customary among historians, the number of casualties has long been a matter of debate. today experts estimate that there are about six million. but it doesn't make the crime any less. there is also debate over whether the holodomor was genocide or "just" the elimination of domestic political opponents. the genocide hypothesis is supported by the fact that the hunger terror was directed mainly against the ukrainians, so it had an ethnic component. the fact that 1.5 million kazakhs and other ethnic groups were also affected and that ukraine was hit precisely because the peasantry there vehemently opposed collectivization speaks against this. both sides have good arguments, but this debate is not for politicians, it is for historians, and therefore this house is also the wrong place for such discussions. instead of talking about the pros and cons of genocide, we should focus on something else: socialism kills, whether it is national or international. socialism is always criminal. it is always responsible for corruption, favoritism and bribery. socialism is always the opposite of justice, and it is more murderous than any nationalism ever was. socialism is the enemy of freedom of travel, freedom of choice of profession, freedom of religion and conscience. and he's the enemy of free speech. socialism is a path of error, and those who still follow it today are morally depraved. if we can agree on such a resolution, i would be happy to support it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 15 december 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the humanitarian situation in ukraine following russia's attacks on critical infrastructure and civilian areas (2022/2998 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. what we are doing for ukraine is not nothing. i think we all know that. the 18 billion euros released on monday is a lot of money. but what ukrainians have been paying since february 24 is such an infinitely greater price for our freedom that i believe we have every reason to do so. the european union is a great example of the kind of europe we want to see: what can we do as the european commission, what can we do as the european parliament, but also what can we do as the member states of the european union so that this fight for freedom is ultimately successful? the eu has already given refuge to 4.8 million people. i don't think last year anyone would have thought we could take in so many refugees. but we also have to expect that this winter, of course, more people will be fleeing ukraine, and we have to prepare for that. i do not see any serious preparations in any of the member states for the arrival of several million more people, and it is not only ukrainians who will have to seek refuge in the european union. i think when we look at how perverse this attack is also on the civilian infrastructure in ukraine, then it's important on the one hand that we have to look: 1.5 million people in odessa, but a total of 10 million people in ukraine who currently have no electricity. how can we supply more generators? how can we supply more cleaning tools? how can we do more in humanitarian aid? but i also want to say that all the humanitarian aid will not stop putin in the end. it is also a humanitarian act to send enough weapons to ukraine so that the drones can be shot down, so that the missiles can be shot down, so that it can be ensured that ukraine can finally be a free, peaceful democracy again. i think that this arms supply is what we must put in the forefront even now in the winter, without doing the other.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, yesterday we celebrated the brave people of ukraine and at the same time there were drone attacks in the middle of kyiv, in the city centre. i was myself in kyiv this summer and i fell in love with the city and with the people who are trying to live a regular life despite the constant attacks from the air. but behind their remarkable resilience, there’s a huge and immense tragedy, with attacks on households, families and children at any given point in time. so we must do three things. the first one is we need to look at our sanctions and see if they are economically biting putin at this very moment and instantly. second, we need to invest not only with public sector but also with private sector money in the areas of ukraine that are currently safe with the help of war insurances. and thirdly, we need to make sure that our weapons deliveries are actually working from all our countries, including germany, with the tanks that are needed. i think we have a chance now with a sanctions package to also sanction political parties and all their party members to make sure russians have a choice: leave the parties that are pro-war or face sanctions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have spoken about this today: the brutality of the russian regime is almost unimaginable. what russia has not yet done with military power, they have tried first with starvation, then they have tried with energy, now they are trying with freezing. they want to freeze the people, the civilians. but if you talk to ukrainians at the moment, you will hear the same thing: they will not give in, they will survive this winter, they will do everything to defend their homeland, their region, their cities. for this they deserve not only our admiration and understanding, but also our genuine, heartfelt support. we are already doing a great deal here from within the european union and also from within the member states. but we must increase this support, this help, this assistance. we need more air defense to actually bring the bombs down from the sky. we need the tanks to liberate the regions. we also need more generators. and in the end, if that's not enough, we have to open our doors and actually welcome more ukrainians into our countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the russian military has destroyed critical civilian infrastructure in ukraine, that is, power plants, energy and transportation infrastructure. the result: significant damage to over 40% of the power plants in ukraine and power outages, partly planned to facilitate repairs and avoid overloading the remaining power grid. well, targeted attacks on energy supplies and critical infrastructure are also happening in the eu. the federal government has decided by law to shut down all nuclear power stations, thus endangering the energy supply of its citizens and industry and raising exorbitant prices. now they're warning us about winter power outages. in france, there are already planned blackouts. the events in ukraine are terrible, but it is unnecessary that people here should freeze or be unable to pay their bills.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. more than two months after the sabotage attack on the nord stream pipelines, the authors are still being veiled. german media says it's russia. but why should russia damage the assets of its most important energy company and deprive itself of the profits of the remaining european energy business? was it poland who was always against nord stream, or the ukrainians because they see the pipeline as russian military infrastructure? or was it the us, as the pro-us polish eu politician sikorski announced shortly after the attacks, because they want to sell their liquefied gas? the answers are still out. such suspicions are damaging to good neighbourly relations. that is why we need an enlightenment, the most brutal enlightenment possible, as was said in the past in connection with the cdu corruption scandal. only here should actions follow words. the commission should be the first to explain. she took control of the government over nord stream, and now she's lost the precious piece. it's like being forced to give up your coat in a theater and being told after a bad performance that the expensive piece is now unfortunately unavailable and that it's nobody's fault. germany has investigated, but only casually and without divers. sweden and denmark have evidence, but they do not want to share it. we have here a typical case of european cooperation. the eu should pool and disseminate the findings. let 's get this straight . russia is most likely not involved in the sabotage, because there is no evidence and no motive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. but perhaps you will surprise us and have some concrete answers for us here in the chamber.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can hear the message, mrs kyriakides, but i do not believe that the intention is to find out who committed these attacks, who destroyed these pipes and what can be done to eliminate or at least reduce the damage. according to my information, a section of the nord stream 2 pipeline is still intact. if that is true, i do not understand why we are not doing everything possible to put these pipelines into operation, to get the permits for them, so that a glaring shortage in our gas supply can be closed here too. it doesn't matter if the gas comes from russia or not. it's that we need gas and we're short of it. we must do everything we can to put an end to the suffering of our people, and we must finally cut off the branch on which we are sitting. the german bundestag also asked about these investigations and no useful, meaningful results came out. it's like you're blocking it. it's like you're suspicious, like you don't want to be suspicious. it's a symbol to me. the destruction of this infrastructure, which is really fundamental to us, is for me a symbol that is also visible here in our building. i had a group of visitors today, and when they came in, they said, "what's going on with the louise weiss building?" there's half of it missing! it's not even finished yet! and i told them that the architect was inspired by bruegel's babylonian tower. of course, the symbolism is wide open, just as it was that led to a failure back then: this tower was never finished. do we really want to show with this story that what we're building here is just a piece of work, that it's only for a short time and that we don't want anything meaningful and anything reasonable to be done here? that would be a disgrace to europe.
