mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the french philosopher michel foucault believed that knowledge and power are inextricably linked. if that's true, and i think it is, then we're all powerless in the digital age. digital services and social media have left us in the dark. every time we go online, make a purchase, or do a search, we pay. we're not paying with money. we're paying with our data. data that the digital platforms then feed into looped algorithms that are often used to manipulate users. the big problem is we don't know what the price is. we don't know what data the services are taking from us or how they're using it. we are ignorant, and therefore powerless. with the digital services regulation, we are taking power back to the users, to the citizens. we're forcing the tech giants to release their algorithms so we can conduct the necessary oversight. completely as we oversee the pharmaceutical industry and other industries. we're making the internet transparent so that users are no longer left in the dark. we're breaking the tech giants' monopoly on online dialogue and free speech, so they can no longer covertly censor and propagandize. we force them to share knowledge. we force them to share power. i am proud, as shadow rapporteur on the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, to be contributing to the improvement of this legislation with good colleagues. i'm proud to have put clear fingerprints, especially against "dark patterns". finally, the digital services regulation is perhaps the most important piece of legislation to be voted on by the european parliament in recent times. i am proud of our digital services regulation.
i have to say, madam president, if men were to have abortions, we wouldn't be standing here today, it would be a declared natural part of health care that everyone had access to. then it wasn't a debate at all. the right to access sexual and reproductive health is not just a women's issue. it is a matter for all of us, for men and women and all citizens of europe. and we cannot talk about equality, we cannot talk about fundamental rights, unless we also talk about the right to get the health care that we need. one of the biggest challenges we face is that we don't have enough knowledge about women's health. we have medical textbooks that don't even mention the female clitoris. there is a lack of basic knowledge. we need this when we talk about sexual and reproductive health, because that is what we are talking about today. but we are also talking about abortion, and we are talking about the legacy we are going to inherit from simone veil. and we can't talk about it without saying things by their rightful names. that is why i was disappointed by the speech made this week by roberta metsola, the new president of the european parliament. i am disappointed by the agreement we have made here in parliament among the three largest groups, where we do not explicitly mention that we will fight for women's right to abortion. we must raise it through the simone veil pact, which will form the basis of a european alliance for women's rights. it's a fight we have to fight every day. it's connected to the fight for democracy, for equal rights, for lgbti people and for our rule of law.
i have to say, madam president, i want animals to be comfortable at all times, whether they're at home in my stable or on the move. as a farmer, this is a matter of the heart for me. it is also for the citizens of europe. and we have been discussing this for a year and a half in the anit committee. today we are taking a big step forward for animal welfare, and i am proud of that. that's what we need. we need to update the outdated rules that we have from 2005. we in the committee on transport have tabled a very balanced report which focuses on improving the conditions of animals during transport. it is absolutely essential for me that we have better implementation and control of these transports. unfortunately, we have seen in all the consultations we have had that some countries are lagging far behind. we need a clear division of responsibility between farmers, transporters and drivers, and then we need to focus on digitalisation. we need to bring the present and the future into transport with gps monitoring, temperature measurements, air conditioning, co2 measurements, in other words, digitisation in transport, so that we can control the cars and the animals better. denmark is a country of progress. i am therefore glad that i had the opportunity to invite my colleagues to denmark to look at transport. that is why i am disappointed that the left is proposing a time limit of no more than eight hours for transport. it is a proof that the left has never really been on a farm. the proposal will kill off many small farms all over europe and thousands of jobs. it is not in paris, copenhagen or berlin that jobs are being lost, but in the countryside. it's gonna lead to a lot of family competition. we know that we can transport the animals in a proper and good way. there are many examples of this. we therefore call for better action to be taken in the conditions in which the animals are being transported now. it is vital that all countries implement the forthcoming rules. for me, it's about what's going to happen in the future. this will ensure the well-being of all animals throughout europe.
i have to say, madam president, extremely high temperatures, no room to move, no access to food and water, broken bones, constipation, illness and stress. these are the conditions today for much of the over one billion animals transported on long haul journeys every year in the eu, often in packed trucks. honestly, is there anyone here who can look at themselves in the mirror and have a good conscience if you put your teeth in a pigsty where you know the pig has been out on the road for days in these conditions? i certainly can't. and this is simply animal cruelty in many cases, which is why it is so important that we get a new law for the transport of animals in the eu. first of all, we must demand a maximum of eight hours for the transport of animals. there is much that can be done to improve the welfare of animals during transport, but ultimately the length of the journey is decisive, and this is also why many, both experts and animal welfare organisations, support the eight-hour proposal. secondly, we must demand that no pregnant animals in the last stages of their pregnancy or young animals which have not been weaned from their mother be transported. whole young animals, like newborn animals, who can't drink themselves, who depend on their mother for nourishment. they will starve and thirst in the animal transports if you send them out on long animal transports where they cannot eat themselves. we have to stop this. finally, we should not export animals live animals to countries where we cannot guarantee animal welfare. we must have a list of countries to which animals can be exported, and for those countries which are not on the list, we cannot guarantee the welfare of animals. we must stop exports. this will of course mean that agriculture will have to do things differently today. of course, that is why we are making new legislation in the eu. we want some changes. let us start that change today and let us get an ambitious proposal on animal transport through the house.
i have to say, madam president, let me begin by emphasizing that the recommendations we are debating today are full of constructive suggestions for how we in the eu can do more for animal welfare and thereby inspire the rest of the world to do the same. this is important because animal welfare is far too bad in far too many places and something must be done about it. but like everything else in this world, animal welfare is not an easy matter. it is therefore also a matter which, in the political debate, may be misused by simplistic, but sometimes popular, approaches. this applies in particular to two areas: firstly, it is a sign of an extremely poor overview and a very poor understanding of all the factors involved in animal welfare when some colleagues go out of their way to be more pro-animal welfare than the rest of us by proposing a maximum transport time without taking account of geographical factors, for example. what the hell are the animals going to use it for when we know it's more about how the animals are transported than how long? secondly, another proposal in the recommendations is whether the word 'animal welfare' should be explicitly mentioned in the job title of an eu commissioner, as if numerology has now become the 'missing link' to better animal welfare. that's some bullshit. the european parliament should not waste its time and the vote of the citizens by meddling with the commission's organisational structure and titles. the commission is, frankly, responsible for this. like water and air and biodiversity, personal data, climate and the rule of law and so on are on the commission's table, without it being on the titles of the commissioners.
for the ppe group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. well over 40 years ago, i was cycling around jutland. it was summer, when we kids weren't building sand castles on the beach and getting black feet from the oilcakes that washed in from the sea. as two small ducks, my sister and i rode our bicycles behind our parents on the country road. in fact, bicycle lanes had not yet been invented. at one point, my father pointed, and my mother began to swing on her bicycle: "there the hippies live!" father shouted, stepping harder on the pedals - "there under the windmill!" thankfully, it's not windmills anymore. because we need them. especially at large sizes and in large chunks out at sea, where they, along with other marine energy technologies, can help meet our enormous need for green energy. because the climate crisis and the energy crisis need to be solved now. the paris agreement and the climate targets must be met on time. europe is crying out for self-sufficiency in green and clean energy that ordinary households and businesses can afford. as rapporteur for the ppe group, i am particularly pleased that we have got a broad agreement which ensures life cycle access to marine energies and which puts them into the much needed upscaling of green hydrogen production so that marine energy can really benefit the energy-intensive sectors around the eu. we also agree that public and private money should be found in projects large enough to be a good business. and then there is an agreement that prevents cunning wind turbine hippies from pouring into the sea, without giving civil society and other relevant organisations and stakeholders a fair chance to shout, to follow and hopefully to back up that in the future we are getting lots of green power from the sea around europe instead of destroying our landscape and the good mood on land.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. madam president, i am afraid we are not getting the green electricity production going fast enough. i am simply afraid that if we do not really pick up the pace, then for many years to come it will be black, expensive electricity from coal-fired power stations that reaches our outlets. fortunately, we have the options and the solutions. i myself come from denmark, from northwest jutland, a place called thy. we call it cold hawaii because there are a lot of windsurfers who are bouncing on the waves up there, and i can sign that there's a lot of wind that we can use. we are building energy islands in the sea to produce electricity, but also to distribute the green electricity between countries. i think we are sending two clear signals with our strategy. first, the pace must be increased. we need to have up to 79 gigawatts, more than the 60 gigawatts proposed by the commission in 2030. secondly, we must have the infrastructure developed so that we can distribute the green electricity to all the countries of europe. let's make my fear a shame. let's show them we mean business now.
madam chairman! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. a situation where there's a risk that it could get worse. i would like to begin by expressing my deep sympathy and support for ukraine. for it should always be the case that a country has the opportunity to choose its own destiny and its own future, regardless of what its neighbours may think of it. and that, of course, also applies to ukraine. i believe that the most important thing for the security and defence of europe is our alliance with the americans and with the british. it is our cooperation within nato that i would like to see given priority, but it is of course a task for our own countries to take care of it. but where would europe have been today if it had not been for the americans and if it had not been for the british? that alliance is so vitally important, and in this situation, more important, perhaps, than ever before. i must also say that i am surprised that in germany the idea has been taken that energy policy can be separated from other policy areas. that you think you can talk energy on the one hand and that it has no influence on security policy and on foreign policy, because of course it does. things are connected. and in this day and age, especially now that energy is so expensive as it is, of course it also has a huge impact on who you're going to be independent of for the next many, many years. the president of the united states has also recently made this point to the new german chancellor. i hope that in germany there will be a wider debate on nord stream 2, because it is, in my view, absolutely impossible to imagine that energy policy can be separated from foreign policy.
madam chairman! the people of ukraine deserve peace and freedom. the present russian aggression, the annexation of crimea and the occupation of eastern ukraine are completely unacceptable. putin is exploiting the eu countries' dependence on russian gas. if we are to be able to say to putin, it is crucial that we strengthen the green transition and become independent of fossil fuels. it can only go too slowly. with nord stream 2, the eu is paradoxically increasing its dependence on russian gas, while at the same time building up its military. this could go horribly wrong. we owe it to the ukrainian people to do everything possible to avoid war. let's step up the diplomatic effort. let's stop the headless armament. and mr. borrell, let's put putin and the oligarchs in the chair and stop nord stream 2 once and for all!
mr. chairman, please. high-rise apartment with rooms that are too small. another friend who's going down with anxiety, depression or stress. unfortunately, the job went to someone with more experience. does that sound familiar? it does for me and for my peers who live in this world every day. the pandemic has robbed us of some of the most precious years of our lives. a whole year of high school, a freshman year, a year of college, sitting at home on the couch in front of the computer. the european union has a long-term strategy for the future, and it is the european union's responsibility to ensure that the future of europe is built on the foundations of the past. at the same time, we are a generation of youth with historically poor mental health. loneliness, depression, stress, and anxiety are growing public health problems. this is the future of europe, ladies and gentlemen! if we're not going to create a generational lockdown, we need to get out of this chair. we need to create labour markets that provide stable, quality jobs. we need to make sure that we equate mental and physical disorders, so that if you break down mentally, you're not alone. for two years, young people around the world have been risking their lives - or their lives together - to fight the pandemic. at least now we can make sure they have a future. i hope you'll join us.
madam president, are violations of human rights and breaches of the rule of law acceptable? certainly not. are human rights violations and breaches of the rule of law by eu member states acceptable? of course not. that is why the eu should have taken action years ago when the violations in hungary and poland started. dear commissioner, you have hesitated before. i now see that you are hesitating again. let me be clear: either the commission acts now or the european parliament will force you to do so. you have had more than a year to act since the establishment of the rule of law mechanism. since then, things have only turned for the worse for the people of hungary and poland. they deserve action.
for the left group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. no one should get cancer from going to work, but unfortunately it happens all too often. every year, about 100 000 people die from work-related cancers in the eu. others lose the ability to have children because of exposure to dangerous chemicals at their workplace. it shouldn't be like this. that is why we on the left and the european trade union movement have been pushing for action for a long time, and now something is happening. i am both happy and proud of the result we have negotiated. this will lead to better protection for cleaning assistants, industrial workers and nurses. overall, it is estimated that more than one million workers in the eu would be better protected if the proposal were adopted today. for industrial workers, this means better protection against carcinogens. for healthcare professionals, this will mean better protection against harmful medical products. for many female employees, this will mean better protection against chemicals that harm reproduction and the ability to have children. i want to thank you for your cooperation with the other negotiators. it has been a tough negotiation, but we have managed to achieve a great and important victory. a victory for hundreds of thousands of workers in the eu. so, colleagues, thank you for your cooperation. let us vote in favour of the motion.
the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen, today we are sending a strong signal to iran that the european parliament is strongly opposed to the use of the death penalty by the iranian government. the significant increase in the use of the death penalty since raisi took power in iran is both inhumane and unacceptable. i would like to thank my colleagues and especially our rapporteur, david lega, for ensuring that we stand together today to call on iran to put an end to the use of the death penalty. we are united here in parliament in our call for sanctions against the iranian government responsible for these atrocities. we are united in our call for iran, the iranian regime, to release the political prisoners and to stop the persecution of journalists. i have no illusions that our decision today will stop the killing immediately. but this parliament, the european parliament, has the duty and the right to put the death penalty on the agenda and to keep the death penalty on the european agenda. let us never stop pressuring the iranian regime. the brave iranians who dare to speak out against their criminal leaders. yes, they truly deserve our full support.
mr president, i would like to thank you. russia must be hit with the toughest sanctions. we're going to send weapons to ukraine. we have to send money. we must send aid and we must take in the poor people who have been forced to flee from the ukraine and come to our homes, which are their neighbourhoods. we must say from the front of putin's regime of terror. we must show that the aggression that putin has shown against a peaceful neighbor is unacceptable, that aggression will be met with harsh consequences for russia, and that the kremlin's terror will never be tolerated by the free world. the free world can only be on the side of ukraine. i love europe for the diversity of the continent it is. and ukraine is also europe. the people who are fleeing these days from ukraine are europeans and they are part of our european family. when the ukrainians meet with hostility and bombs from putin, they must meet with friendship and help from europe. dictators never get enough, and putin never gets enough. these days it's all about ukraine. in the future, it may be extended to other european countries. this has to stop. we have to get our shit together. and we must and must defend the full right of every sovereign nation to determine its own destiny. we must be prepared to defend ourselves against any tyrant who would challenge us or come with war and terror. we need a significantly strengthened nato, and we need significantly increased defence budgets. i support the decision which the majority has negotiated in the chamber.
madam chairman! millions of ukrainians have fled from putin's brutal war crimes. some are internally displaced, some have fled across the border into the eu. we must make sure that they are all helped. from food to medicine, from school to a roof over your head. we cannot leave this task to the neighbouring countries alone. let us rise up in ranks through a solidarity-based distribution of refugees in the eu. it is not only ukrainians who suffer under putin's regime. the brave russian men and women who are taking to the streets for peace, the conscientious objectors and deserters who refuse to fight putin's brutal war, they need our help and they need to be able to find safety in the european union. people fleeing war and oppression deserve protection, whether they are from ukraine, russia, afghanistan or syria.
mr president, i would like to thank you. - i'm not going to lie to you. my fellow members! we have long been discussing in this chamber the gas market and whether russia is playing by the rules we all play by, or whether they are manipulating gas prices. an important discussion, but it seems completely superfluous and outdated now, because it has become clear to all of us that russia is not playing by any rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we must move away from russian gas, and we must move fast, and the commission has today put forward a plan. i think it's good. in one year, we can reduce our dependence on natural gas by two thirds. we have to. it's about investing in renewable energy, and it's about increasing energy efficiency by insulating our houses and harnessing surplus heat so we can save energy instead of importing putin's black energy.
for the ppe group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. used batteries have long been a problem for our environment. that is why batteries are not on the agenda of this parliament for the first time. this time, however, it is different, because since the last time we have really understood what the circular economy can do and how central batteries are in the green transition. so we need to create ecosystems for batteries so that they stay in circulation without harming nature, our health and our safety. in this way, they become raw materials that can be put into circulation for a few more trips in a new battery, supporting the eu's self-supply chains of what we cannot do without when markets are in turmoil and when we have to show respect for the fact that natural resources are not infinite. that's really good! what is also good is that we are strengthening our efforts for the environment and increasing consumer safety by making a much clearer distinction between which types of batteries should be replaced by whom. and then we will strengthen and structure the internal market for batteries and ensure a level playing field. this is done through ambitious standards and harmonised rules, and it will provide the european battery sector with much better conditions to develop into a global leader. it is important for the eu's competitiveness and economy, and it is crucial for the eu to be able to push the rest of the globe in a better direction. that's really good! we must never forget that the private sector and its innovative companies are and will remain the most powerful engine for moving the world forward in a cleaner, healthier, greener and richer direction. we politicians must ensure that the framework, the rules and the incentives are in place to make this possible, and we are doing so with this update of the eu battery regulation which we are now adopting, and we in the ppe are very pleased about this.
i have to say, madam president, lieutenant! the war in ukraine has shown that energy policy is security policy - and security policy is energy policy. if we play our cards right, safety and the environment can go hand in hand. the war has sent gas prices skyrocketing. european businesses and citizens are already seeing the fatal consequences. there is an urgent need for us in the eu to do everything we can to break free from putin's iron grip. we must work towards becoming an energy union. if we in the eu are to achieve this, one of our best cards in the deck is biogas. there is a huge untapped potential in biogas - a solution i have long advocated. biogas is a fast, efficient and green form of energy that can help us get rid of organic waste in society, move us closer to the climate target and contribute to the circular economy. we need to cut down on the fossil russian gas and increase the biogas, now! biogas has the potential to supply a quarter of european households' gas needs. in denmark, new figures show that we can cover 100 percent of gas consumption in 2027-2028 - if we play our cards right. for denmark, biogas is a good and efficient solution. we must find common solutions, because the crisis is transnational. but it is important that we ensure flexibility for individual member states. biogas is not the best solution for everyone. it is therefore up to the member states to choose the forms of energy that best suit the resources that each country now has. the eu must ensure a wide and flexible choice of energy sources. because it is crucial that we use the crisis to push the green transition. we need more renewable energy and the crisis has indeed shown that it is possible to act quickly. we're gonna have to take the cutlery off! for our safety, for the climate, for the environment.
for the left group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. no one should get sick from going to work. but unfortunately, it happens all too often. cleaners, industrial workers, painters, and nurses are often exposed to dangerous chemicals that can make them sick or damage their ability to have children. construction workers risk losing their lives when they renovate our homes because of exposure to the life-threatening asbestos. too many people suffer from work-related stress because of a lack of proper work-life balance. people are breaking down. people are getting sick. people die, and only because they're doing their jobs. this is a crisis. it's a health and safety crisis. and there is an urgent need for action. it is about millions and millions of wage-earners in the european union. their families and our societies, where a narrow focus on corporate bottom lines is all too often overridden by the health of the employees. we need better protection of our physical and mental working environment. it requires better regulation. it requires a strengthening of labour inspection in the member states and it requires a cultural change where we take the lives of hardworking people seriously instead of taking them for granted. i would like to thank the with today's vote, we are sending a clear signal. a signal that we expect action. and, my dear lieutenant. millions of salaried employees are watching you. every day they do their jobs at the risk of getting sick or dying. now is the time for the eu to do its job and provide better protection for our physical and mental working environment. it doesn't just happen, because it would have happened a long time ago. we have a unified european trade union movement which demands action. we have concerned citizens demanding action. and when this report is adopted, we have a united european parliament demanding action. my dear inspector. now it's time to deliver!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am currently preparing the european parliament's proposal for a much-needed revision of the waste shipment regulation. it must have the circular economy in its dna and digitisation must replace the old-fashioned paperwork that spans the backbone of a harmonised and sustainable internal market for waste transport. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative for a strategy for sustainable textiles. but i also agree with the impatient criticism of mr ehlers and mr fiocchi. because the challenge is great, and it's necessary, because only 1 percent of the world's clothing is recycled into new clothing. one percent! and in the course of the textile's all-too-linear life, enormous amounts of water are used. too much water. and the raw materials. and the energy. it simply cannot go on! moreover, there are indeed huge business opportunities for the eu in solving precisely these problems, which no one in the world has yet found the solution to. the textile industry is already huge. 160 000 small and mediumsized enterprises and 1.5 million jobs in the eu alone. this means that the eu can - and must, if we want to - show the rest of the world how. the textile industry is that global. it offers a good opportunity to show the way forward and thereby strengthen european competitiveness and technological leadership. that is why it is also important that we approach the task systematically and with ambition. we need to find new production methods and processes, new designs and new materials. we need to do more research and we need to support innovation. and then we have to give the single market a whirlwind so that the whole value chain of the textile industry - from the designer to the consumer - puts climate and the environment at the centre in a truly sustainable way. yes, the need and the possibilities are enormous. this is also the expectation for the commission's approach. this time, please don't let us down.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i should like to welcome prime minister trudeau back to brussels. it is dark times, as you rightly said. in my housing block we have now new neighbours. i met them the other day when i was at the playground with my eldest daughter. here we met misha and roma, two small boys from ukraine at the ages of eight and four. together with their mother they have fled putin’s invasion. like a million more they need shelter, they need shoes, and they need food. we need to stand together in solidarity to help the refugees. that is why i am happy to hear that canada will take an unlimited number of refugees. taking care of refugees cannot be a question about numbers. it is about human lives and human rights. i hope the eu and canada can unite on this and i hope our unity will go further. we need to strengthen the sanctions. we need to cancel the ukrainian foreign debt. we need to support ukraine. dear colleagues, we need to do our utmost to support ukraine. it is clear that putin is exploiting the eu’s dependency on russian gas, oil and nuclear power. our best weapon against putin is a green transition and energy independence. it is not only about security. it is, of course, also about tackling the climate crisis before it is too late. mr prime minister, listening to the news, it is clear that there is an urgent need for humanitarian corridors in mariupol and the besieged cities in ukraine. moreover, there is a need to make sure that putin and other war criminals do not repeat the horrors that we see in ukraine. we need to strengthen the international order under the un. we need to make sure that all countries have freedom and self-determination. mr prime minister, we need peace, not war.
mr president, we’ve heard it all before. we’ve had this debate before. luxleaks, the panama papers, pandora papers, paradise papers, and so on. and now suisse secrets. i wonder how many scandals do we need to take this crime seriously. we learned from all those leaks that we have in the recent years that not only switzerland but several eu countries have actively helped russian oligarchs to launder money, avoid taxes and hide their wealth. luckily, the eu showed that we are ready to take actions against russia with economic sanctions as we have done with the oligarch freezing assets actions. and i call on us now to use this situation as a wakeup call and make sure that we are as ambitious as possible with the anti—money-laundering package. this means banning golden visas, ensuring transparency on beneficial ownership and proper exchange of tax information, and making sure that member states transpose and enforce existing anti—money-laundering rules. and it also includes a proper risk of high—risk countries. so i hope and i count on all the eu institutions to take up the task.
i have to say, madam president, there are many, many decisions that need to be made in the eu in order to get us out of the energy jam that putin has put us in. today's debate will make no difference if we do not act on it and we act on what we know works. we've known this for a long time: the less energy we use, the better it is for our wallet, for the environment, for the climate, for health, for productivity. and now we understand that energy is also security policy, which has the potential to turn off the lights of our free and prosperous world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency directive is implemented. ambition alone will not do it! it makes tools that relate to energy efficiency require skilled labour, competent advice, funding and flexibility for each country in the eu to get started in ways that work for it. the directive must therefore be filled with tools that are concrete, accessible, clear and logical. the worst thing about crises and wars is having to do things in ways that don't work and don't make sense. hopefully we can reach an agreement with the council before next winter sets in. we just have to!
madam president, the eu is the world’s biggest loser when it comes to losing money to tax havens. actually, we lose around eur 380 billion a year, according to international studies, because multinationals and wealthy individuals are shifting their wealth to tax havens around the globe. but these tax havens are not just distant palm islands as you see in the movies. actually, three out of four euro are lost in tax evasion to countries inside the european union. some say this is just competition, but is it truly fair competition that a few gigantic companies can choose freely themselves how much they want to pay in tax, because surely it’s not the german or the french or the danish or the dutch parliaments that decide their tax rates. they decided themselves. imagine how much we could invest in schools, hospitals and green transition. no one is benefiting from this but the tax evaders. this is why we must have a minimum tax level and we should have it now.
rapporteur. – mr president, today’s vote is about gender equality. it is that simple. it was about gender equality when the femm and the empl committees voted in favour with a big majority and it is about gender equality today. since then, some have argued that the pay transparency directive is unnecessary because we have almost succeeded in closing the gender pay gap. but honestly, we are tired of women being put into this category of people who have almost the same rights as men, who have almost the same opportunities, who have almost the same pay. what is this almost? almost is unfair, outdated, and is just not enough. so, colleagues, now is your chance. now is your chance to vote with us to achieve change. european women need your votes today and we as co—rapporteurs hope that we can stand united as a parliament when we will vote in favour of gender equality.
madam chairman! all asylum applications must be examined and they must be examined thoroughly and honestly. this is about human life. it's never okay to turn people away when they're on the run. that is why it is wrong for greece to repeatedly and illegally push back refugees. it is inexcusable that frontex is helping to do this. it is frightening that denmark, my own country, is trying to force a kurdish woman back into a brutal and oppressive iranian regime. i am shocked that our continent has such a short memory that it seems to have forgotten that there are reasons why people flee. if we are to be able to face ourselves, we need to stop treating refugees as if they are not real people. remember, history will judge us if we forget our humanity. we can't!
the rapporteur. mr president it's been a long time since men were the only ones who earned money and women were the only ones who used it. fortunately, this division of labour belongs to another era, and today each of us can, will and must relate to the interconnectedness of the social economy. for the eu, the conscious use of the economic muscle of society is essential if we are to be able to afford everything we want and need to afford to protect in an increasingly uncertain future: the climate, the environment, health and, not least, freedom, democracy and peace. this is also what is at stake when we consider, with this report, that europe has become a continent with a low level of entrepreneurship - especially when it comes to women entrepreneurs. in fact, in the eu, women account for only 30% of start-up entrepreneurs and only 34% of all self-employed. this has a negative impact on the eu's competitiveness, our capacity for innovation, sustainable growth and job creation. i have been an entrepreneur myself, and i have been a business owner for 12 years, and i know from personal experience that there are a lot of women who want to live a life as entrepreneurs. it is women who can create business models, jobs and corporate cultures that are more fit for the future than those we have seen so far. but there are some significant barriers and challenges that need to be removed now. first, far too many women think they are less competent than they actually are. often women are quite well dressed for the task of being self-employed. they just don't know it, they have far too little entrepreneurial confidence and they have a hard time getting an overview of what they need to know and be able to do and what they need to be able to handle and where they need to get what they may be lacking. the report therefore makes several recommendations to promote skills development through entrepreneurship programmes, training and networks. both the commission and several member states have set up entrepreneurship programmes, and there are signs that this is having a positive effect. but we still know far too little and need more data to see exactly what works. as in other areas, it is important to learn more about the motivation and drive of women entrepreneurs - and not least to identify, promote and highlight role models. secondly, too many investors have not found out that it is even a very good business to give female entrepreneurs an economic saltwater injection. men receive the vast majority of capital in the eu. startups with only male founders received 93 percent of all money invested in the tech industry in 2018. on the other hand, women's businesses actually have a higher turnover despite lower investment. it underlines the enormous potential of investing in women's business models, and this potential is what our report is going to unlock with the many proposals for solutions that we have had made in the incredibly good cooperation between the political groups over the last few months. i would like to endorse that, by the way, and thank you very much. of all the things we are proposing, i would like to emphasize here, finally, that gender-sensitive investor networks should be set up, preferably networks which, in their design, bring investors closer to the everyday life of entrepreneurs. the whole ecosystem needs to be activated, and everyone needs to know where to find each other when they need to. let me also end by pointing out to the member states and to the responsibility you have, in which the european union must not interfere: that the life of an entrepreneur, whether male or female, is also about a proper work-life balance and a daily life that is linked to private life and, in particular, to the family of children. i'm sure more of you could do better. unfortunately, in 2020, more of us knew someone who closed their business than we knew someone who started a business. it just doesn't work. we must have nurtured and nurtured and developed the seedbed for much more entrepreneurship in the eu. we are now voting on the report in the european parliament and i hope we get at least 83% to vote in favour, because that was the fine result we achieved in the committee on women's rights and equality when the committee voted on it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the war in ukraine is deeply horrifying. we have to do everything we can to stop it. to help the ukrainians. it is important that the eu has imposed sanctions, but they are clearly not tough enough to get putin to withdraw his troops. that's why we need to increase the pressure. we have to stop importing russian oil and gas. we need to hit putin and the oligarchs where it hurts. the war and solidarity with ukraine cannot but affect our own economy. that is why it is absolutely essential that we protect the lowest income groups. the broadest shoulders must of course also bear the heaviest burdens in the fight against putin. it is tragic that many families struggle to make ends meet and must choose between food and warmth. this is not how the eu should be in 2022! no one should go hungry or be forced from their homes. we must help the economically weak. it's crucial that we stand together against putin. let's tax the excess profits. let us stop speculating on rising food, energy and raw material prices. let's help the ukrainian refugees. the ukrainian refugees are welcome in the eu and deserve, like all other refugees, good treatment, including in the labour market. we must therefore make clear demands on employers so that our ukrainian friends are not underpaid and exploited. the commission has therefore set clear social requirements for the disbursement of eu funds. that is why our tax dollars should not go to companies that do not comply with the current collective agreement or hide in shady tax havens. community money should not go to greedy employers or rich men who betray the community. my dear colleagues, let us instead stand together against putin. let us hold hands with the lowest income and let us walk in solidarity through this terrible war.
i have to say, madam president, today we in the european parliament are voting in favour of introducing a common european minimum corporate tax of 15%. we say yes to stopping the race to the bottom and the extreme tax speculation that goes on under the guise of just being free competition. we have discussed this before, but now it is serious thanks to the report by mrs aurore lalucq, which we are going to vote for. the european commission is with us. 137 countries are with us. it is historic and i would therefore ask the last remaining countries to back up this. we are talking about poland here, and i would like to say: dear poland, last year we signed on to the need to introduce a minimum corporate tax. don't you think it's time to live up to that intention now? the longer we delay, the more it's gonna cost us. the aggressive tax juggling costs us between $200 and $500 billion a year. that's money we could use for green conversion and recovery. so, dear poland, please stop blocking. let's get on with getting that minimum tax passed now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is not the easiest task, but it is also the eu's biggest and most important to date. what we're voting on needs to work so that we can meet our part of the paris agreement and live up to our own climate law without destroying our cohesion or our economy. it is now time to show the rest of the world how 27 independent countries can help each other do what no country anywhere on the planet can do alone. in the course of our work we have had many elevator trips into the toolboxes of the individual directives. we've discussed ambitions and goals, and we've forced ourselves into the details. thank god for that. because it is necessary, even if it is difficult. that's the way politics is. in particular, policies that are not just to suit their own country, their own voters or their own climate policy one-liners, which may sound green, but cannot stand the litmus test of whether they can also function in the complex realities of reality. the co2 targets must be met, and the outcome of our votes will determine whether we succeed. not only because co2 is actually being reduced as agreed, but also because we are doing it in ways that make our economy and our competitiveness bigger, stronger and healthier. for the green transition is not only necessary, it is also costly. and without money, as we know, everything else we want to be able to afford in the future also suffers: health, defence, research, migration. and then there's the war in europe and the energy crisis. the outcome of the vote is still uncertain at this stage. the compromises on the table seem to be balancing the knife edge to do what needs to be done. let us hope that we vote with common sense.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we vote on how long we will allow the sale of cars that run on fossil fuels, we decide whether we want to be on the side of the past or the future; whether we want to be on the side of the car industry or the climate and future generations. unfortunately, in the climate committee, the world lost several votes by just one vote. my colleagues, we can now put things right. i would urge you, with all your heart, with all your might, to vote to stop the sale of new fossil cars altogether. if you ask me, and if you ask climate science, stopping in 2035 is already too late. so let me be clear. the forces that are trying to water down and delay the green transition of our cars are failing the climate and the future of our children. my dear colleagues, do not let them win.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are discussing today perhaps the most ambitious piece of legislation we will have to pass in this term of office. but now we must put into words the great ambitions we have set in our climate law. for me it is absolutely crucial that these are realistic targets which do not simply push production out of europe. i am a farmer and it is important to me that we also set some big, ambitious targets for agriculture so that we can contribute to the green transition more than we have done in the past. but we must remember that at the same time european agriculture is the greenest agriculture we have in the world, the most sustainable agriculture we have in the world. when i look at my home country denmark, we are probably one of the most sustainable and climate-friendly countries in the world. it is the power of innovation and new technology. and it is precisely innovation and new technology that must help to solve our climate objectives, including biogas, carbon farming and many other elements that we must put into practice. but the balance is delicate. if we are not careful, we will push production out of europe. as i always say, we must reduce emissions, not production.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, i say to the president of the european commission: when i heard the commission decided to give more than eur 30 billion to poland i was surprised. surprised because there is no clear confirmation that poland now fully complies with the rule of law. surprised that several relevant commissioners clearly were not involved in the process. surprised to see that the commission president ignored the vocal protests of her colleagues. surprised that you choose to ignore the explicit demands and resolutions of this parliament not to give in to pressure. and not least surprised that you are willing to sacrifice our basic principles. dear colleagues, dear commission, i say we cannot compromise on rule of law or the respect of basic democratic freedoms within the eu. it is simply not acceptable. so where do we go from here? it is clear to me that if the commission insists on this misguided course, if it decides to neglect its duties and to ignore the court and the european parliament, and if it seriously decides that rule of law is optional for member states, then we will have to take the necessary measures, because in that case we clearly cannot have confidence in the commission any more. dear president, i urge you to live up to your responsibilities. if not, you are no longer fit for your role.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we all know what this is about. it's about you wanting to increase immigration to europe. commissioner johansson has said it before, several of you speakers here today have said it: europe is an ageing continent. europe therefore needs to attract millions and millions of people from africa and the middle east in the years to come. but let me ask you, how has your immigration worked? where has immigration from islamic countries in the middle east and africa been successful? where's there been a profit business? how have african migrants made europe a better place to be? i ask because i cannot get anywhere, and yet you go ahead and want to increase immigration considerably. let me put it this way: europe's problem is not that it cannot attract immigration. the problem is that we've had too much already, and they haven't been able to send them home. this is a huge problem. what you're doing right now is just legalizing mass immigration, and i don't like it. and i don't think the europeans like it very much either. we need to protect europe. we need to prepare our continent for the enormous pressure that will come to our borders in the coming years, but also in the coming months, as a result of rising food prices and inflation in some very, very unstable countries. we are busy, my friends. unfortunately, you're doing all the wrong things, and you're going to keep doing them, and you've been doing them for years.
blue-card speech. – thank you very much, terry, for your speech, and i hope that your throat is going to feel better. in this debate, there is a lot of influence from religious communities and churches. do you see that in such a debate as today, wearing a christian cross around the neck when speaking is a political symbol?
blue-card speech. – (start of speech off mic) you mentioned article 2 of the treaty. in that article, there is also the right to equality. are all of the rights mentioned in article 2 of the treaty not equal?
blue-card speech. – thank you very much for mentioning the referendum on the repeal of the eighth amendment in ireland. as parliamentarians and as community leaders, how can we, from this side of the atlantic, help the community leaders and the parliamentarians in the us in their fight for abortion rights?
madam president, this is my body. the state does not own my body. i live in, i live through, and i walk the earth with my body. i own my body. i own my ear lobes, my kidney, my organs when i die. i decide. why should the state interfere with my uterus as the only organ of my body? what are we discussing today? it is a global debate. the protection of my human dignity. a fundamental right. my autonomy as a woman, as a citizen, is what is at stake. pregnancy is one of the most dangerous things that a woman can endure. what we’re discussing today is our right to make our health care choices, to make our own decisions. our pregnancies are unpredictable and decisions are for the pregnant to take. it is our pregnancies, our bodies. we are not the property of the state.
mr. chairman, please. i hope that many of you are following the work of parliament today. i hope that many of you have been following the conference on the future of europe. because if you have, you will know that you and this system will meddle in every aspect of the lives of europeans. the horror of a final document adopted by the conference - the danish translation is 49 pages long - is nothing short of nothing, nothing short of nothing, everything is simply something in which the eu has to intervene, and that scares me very much. a strong europe does not necessarily mean more europe. on the contrary, i think so. the document will even call for the flag of the european union to be flown at sporting events and all sorts of other things to show a common european identity which does not exist. that doesn't exist! i'm danish, this house is made up of poles, italians, germans, etc. let us be proud of the diversity, the diversity that europe contains. i thought you were too much, your system never gets enough, and i'm going to take the liberty of voting against it.
blue-card speech. – i was a little bit surprised when i was listening to you speak and comparing women as human beings to gardens and gardeners. my body is what propels me into the world and what is the basis of my actions into the world, and it is crucial that we as human people are able to decide over our own lives and our own bodies. and i would like to hear you explain how you can compare women’s bodies and their possibility to decide over their own lives to a gardener and a garden and a seed in the ground.
mr. chairman, please. and thank you to the commissioners for being here today. this is the culmination of three years of work and 15 years of experience with ever-increasing digital centralization. and what has it shown us? it has shown us that trust is good, but openness is better, and voluntary action by companies is good, but legislation is better. what brings me great joy about the bill that we are voting on tomorrow is that we have implemented accountability through design, where the platforms are going to have transparency and reporting to a european authority instead of upload filters and obfuscated decisions. we have the possibility of appealing the decisions they take, and there is a ban on digital trapping, the so-called "dark patterns". we now have a base to secure our democracy, our businesses and our rights. but what's essential is going to be enforcement, and there's gdpr, probably a scarecrow, where we need to get it brought up at a european level and get a european agency or a european authority to make sure that the legislation that we're hopefully passing tomorrow actually becomes a reality through clarity and enforcement.
thank you for being here, commissioner sinkevičius. the cop is very much about agreeing on high ambitions, but it is also about reaching out to each other with tools and initiatives. and i would like to hear - because we haven't talked about that much in this debate - what is the commission going to send as signals to scientists, entrepreneurs and investors about what kind of community it is, what kind of agile cooperation we would very much like to have in the eu, also with scientists and companies, who invite new solutions - for example, biological solutions such as biological pesticides instead of chemical pesticides, more digitisation - also of our food production, so that we become better at taking care of both the climate and the environment with an impact on biodiversity. what is the message to the investors and businesses that we simply cannot afford to lose from the eu, so that we can make the difference to the world that we want?
i have the additional question and the request to the commissioner that i think you should deal with the fact that there are calls in the markets for a new chapter to be added to the taxonomy of enabling technologies. that's what's missing! we don't have that yet. i also think you should listen to the requests from a great many stakeholders that some fast-track approval procedures be set up in the commission in relation to the new innovative solutions which look different from what your staff are used to seeing. it is not working yet, and i would like to know if you can answer the market for cop-15?
mr president, i would like to thank you. so if we now drop natural gas and nuclear energy from the eu's taxonomy of sustainable investment, what does that really mean? that we, like those who, on behalf of the voters, passed the world's most ambitious climate law just two years ago, are now pushing the goal of climate neutrality far into the future - far beyond the promised 2050! we are also the kind of people who, despite better scientific knowledge, are tying the european union to coal and oil for longer than is good and possible. the fact is that, with the taxonomy in hand, we can demand that gas plants that receive investment in the taxonomy use 100% renewable or low-emission gas by 2036. are we really going to pass up that opportunity? and should we ignore the fact that the un's climate panel, the ipcc, recommends that we include nuclear energy on an equal footing with other renewable energy types? and should we turn our backs on the european union's own research centre, which last year concluded that nuclear energy is a sustainable form of energy? no, of course we must not, and that is why we must say no to saying no!
i have to say, madam president, let me start by making a few things absolutely clear: putin's war in ukraine is distasteful and totally unacceptable, and there must be very, very harsh consequences for russia to attack a neighboring country! but putin has also shown his true face as the war criminal he is, and i hope that he and other responsible persons will one day be held accountable. russia's war in ukraine has fundamentally changed europe. the debate we are having today does not reflect the seriousness of the matter sufficiently. the debate today is somehow aimed at casting suspicion on some, pointing fingers at others, but if we are to reflect on the war and how best to deal with the new reality, then all relations with russia must be subject to debate. the problem is much broader than the title of the debate suggests. because it was not the political extremists in germany who made europe dependent on putin's gas. it was not a chancellor from an outer-wing party that went almost directly from the chancellor's apartment to the executive corridor of gasprom. and what french government was it that a few years ago was very close to selling warships - that is, military hardware - to the same putin who has now attacked ukraine? and i could keep it that way. of course, the outer wings cannot be held responsible for all these things. i would simply like to appeal to the public, when this important subject is discussed, to be blind to party colour and to be alert to real actions and relationships which can harm our countries and our continent.
mr president, i would like to thank you. right now, the price of energy in europe is exploding. for too many, it puts tremendous pressure on the economy. the single mother looks anxiously at the electricity bill. every penny is turned around by the low-wage earners, and for more and more of them, the economy is not hanging together at all. while we're experiencing acute energy poverty around the small homes, the revenue for the energy companies is exploding. in 2022 alone, their profits are expected to be $1.4 trillion. that is an incomprehensibly large sum. it is not fair that anyone should be forced to turn off the electricity, turn off the heat or go to bed hungry while the energy companies are raking in money. let us tax the extraordinary profits! let's help the lowest income earners and let's create the green and sustainable jobs of the future!
the rapporteur. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today, parliament is taking the first step towards decarbonising the sector that is arguably the most difficult to decarbonise. the 2019 election was too many people's climate election. that is why i am proud that today we are showing the europeans that our promise of action on climate change was not empty words. in 2017, aviation emissions accounted for approximately 3,8% of total eu emissions. the share of aviation emissions is expected to rise dramatically unless we act. that is why we must set ambitious standards for our airlines. but everyone has to contribute. this applies to fuel producers, airports, aircraft manufacturers, member states and passengers. if we do not act now, we have only two options: either we stop flying, or we abandon our climate goals, and those are the paths that fortunately not many people want to take. we all agree that european aviation must be sustainable and green. but we also all know that it's going to be challenging. i would therefore like to commend the commission on its good proposal. the approach is clever, simple and it will work. by requiring fuel suppliers to mix green fuels, we ensure that aircraft emit less. with the commission's proposal, in everyday speech refueleuaviation, the eu will once again be at the forefront of the green transition, and with this bill we are showing the rest of the world how we can make aviation green. despite the good timing of the commission's approach, many of us do not think it is ambitious enough. that is why i am proud to have led the debate in this house and that we are voting later today on a much more ambitious approach. firstly, we propose that the intermediation requirement be raised significantly. in other words, we want to have more green fuel in the planes than the commission has proposed. we also propose a higher requirement for the incorporation of synthetic fuels from 100% sustainable sources. the so-called e-fuels are the future and it is important that we stimulate the market so that deployment and upscaling can take place as quickly as possible. green fuels are significantly more expensive than conventional fuels, so in order to create an incentive to buy them and at the same time maintain the competitiveness of european aviation, we propose that the additional cost be offset through the ets. it will discourage airlines from using non-eu countries as intermediaries for refuelling. we will also have better controls, transparency and we will be able to tackle the environmental and climate-damaging emissions that are not related to co2. as rapporteur, i have seen it as my main task to put the wings together. it has not been an easy task. national, political, ideological and economic interests across the eu have had to meet, and i am aware that it has not been possible to satisfy everyone. i hope, however, that both my colleagues and external stakeholders feel that i have listened and been accessible and clear about my priorities as rapporteur. i would like to thank all those who have contributed, not least my own political group, renew. two committees have reported. i would like to thank my colleagues on these committees. i have tried to include your views as far as possible and i am pleased to note that no amendments have been tabled on behalf of either itre or envi. the negotiations with the council are still to come. i look forward to working with the presidency and it is my sincere hope that together we can secure an ambitious outcome. i look forward to this morning's discussion.
the rapporteur. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for all the comments. as i have already mentioned, it is not possible to make everyone happy. many of your speeches have been a kind reminder of this. so thank you for that, ladies and gentlemen. as i mentioned in my introduction, my job has been to bring together many different interests. some would have "book and claim", others are staunchly against. some would like a broader definition of saf, others a narrower one. some would have higher intermediate requirements, others would have lower. i would like to remind you, however, that we must now have adopted a negotiating mandate. the committee on transport's proposal has so far been the one which has received the greatest support in the committee. so i think that's a really good starting point. i very much look forward to having it tested by members of parliament later today and i very much look forward to defending parliament's position in the forthcoming trilogue negotiations.
rapporteur. – madam president, in accordance with rule 59 of the rules of procedure, i would like to request that the file be referred back to the tran committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
mr. chairman, please. thank you for letting me speak. it is very important to me that we have a sustainable and sensible forestry strategy in the eu. but it is not sensible and sustainable to leave the forests untouched, as the left wants. we need to have an active forestry. an active forestry operation is a green forestry operation. we need to thin our forests so that the rest of the trees can grow big, and use the thin tree for biofuels. of course, we use the trunks for furniture, wooden structures, and so forth. it's sustainable and common sense, and it's climate friendly. i'm in the process of thinning my own forest, which was hit by the hurricane in 1999, and where 25 percent of the trees fell. there we go with the first-order dilution. and the thinning wood, it's used for bio-tiles. it's common sense. in denmark, 80 percent of the forests are privately owned. we should not deprive the forest owners of the opportunity to make money from forestry, but rather make some rules that help them. biodiversity, carbon storage, i'm absolutely convinced that we can achieve that. it's common sense.
rapporteur. – mr president, europe’s energy system is under severe pressure. we have to go back to the 1970s to find a comparison to what is happening right now. the combination of putin’s chokehold on gas supplies, the most severe drought on record, and the failing of the conventional power fleet are creating the conditions for a perfect storm. businesses, households, governments – they are all being hit. what can we do about it? well, for years, some of us have been saying that the safest, cleanest and cheapest energy is that which you don’t use. today, this is truer than ever, but europe has been sleeping at the wheel. yes, there have been eu—wide energy—saving goals for the past decade, but they have been voluntary and with mixed results at best. investment in energy efficiency increased, but energy use fell by only 4% between 2010 and 2019. without realising, this continent has been cruising on autopilot into deeper and deeper dependency on imported energy. now we have the crisis, and governments are acting. they are increasing efforts to ramp up renewables and energy efficiency. at a dramatic speed, they’re rolling out urgent energy—saving plans. these policies are needed. these policies can address the immediate challenges of price spikes and inflation and import dependency. but what about the longer term? what will happen next? well, that is up to us, my friends. we have the opportunity now to set a straight way out of energy dependency, creating a solid way of getting rid of putin’s natural gas well before 2030, because this is what an ambitious energy efficiency directive can deliver. i believe that we have such an agreement on the table this week that we can adopt: a directive setting a 40% target for energy efficiency in 2030 compared to the 2017 baseline scenario, a target which will be binding for both the eu as a whole and for the individual member states. to deliver on these ambitious targets, the negotiating team have strengthened the directive in many aspects. let me outline some of the core issues. we have yearly energy savings on 2%, raising the energy—savings obligation from the commission’s 1.5% proposal. we have two milestones: in 2025 and 2027, measuring our way towards 2030, so we can see if we are on track and if we’re not, we’d better act on it. we have agreed on a 3% renovation rate for public buildings. we have an agreement to prioritise the people who suffer from energy poverty, as they are the ones that need energy—efficiency measures the most because they have the hardest economic situation. we’ve strengthened the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle, creating more comprehensive governance, and we have agreed that all municipalities with more than 35 000 inhabitants need to make heating and cooling plans to get the most efficient solutions. furthermore, we have agreed on energy—efficiency schemes for datacentres, making sure that they don’t waste the heat but use it to warm up buildings. ladies and gentlemen, i think we have an ambitious text on the table. i look forward to the debate here tonight. i look forward to hearing from the negotiating team that i have negotiated with because they are the ones that are making the difference.
for the ppe group. mr president! energy efficiency has long been known as the most cost-effective way to reduce co2 so we reach our climate goals on time. it has now also been recognised that energy efficiency is in fact a powerful weapon to reduce the eu's energy dependence on russia and other hostile suppliers. and every week, families and businesses, large and small, across the eu are learning that energy savings can and should be made to make money at a time when energy prices are not the only thing skyrocketing. energy efficiency has thus become, on an unfortunate background and with too much delay, an indispensable instrument in all countries, all companies and all households, and this is why the review we are now proposing is taken seriously. we have made a broad agreement and we have put our arms in the right places, so that we now have high ambitions, lots of tools and all the flexibility that it is only reasonable to provide, while at the same time telling the countries that now national binding targets apply, so that no country can hide behind others, so that some countries have to pull a heavier load than most. that is the best part of our agreement and i would like to thank you for that on behalf of the epp group. and i look forward to a swift and effective negotiation with the council.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you very much for this debate. i think it has been extremely positive, really. i think the debate shows that there’s a great consensus amongst the political groups that we need more ambition on energy efficiency. and i hope and i also think that it will result in support for the text which is on the table, which has some broad appeal, i think. i want to thank, in particular, pernille weiss from the epp, nicola danti from the renew group, and not least, jutta paulus from the greens. they are the people that also backed this agreement, along with me, and i think that if we stick together like we’ve done – i mean, we have our different points of view on different aspects, but i think we’ve managed to make an agreement where we take into consideration the different perspectives that we have and we’ve managed to increase the ambition level, basically. i think it was a good proposal that the commission put on the table. i think our agreement is even better. the commission proposed, originally, to have a target of 36% then raised the target to 39%, in relation to repowereu, and we raised it another notch to 40%. now these percentages might seem like a small deal, but actually, a 40% target will have the effect that we can cut gas emissions by 190 billion cubic metres annually. we can cut gas imports by that number. that equals three and a half times nord stream 1 capacity. so, three and a half times nord stream 1 capacity, less gas imports – this is the potential of this deal. i think we have a good result here and i look forward to voting on wednesday and to the further negotiations with the council.
mr. chairman, please. the eu should not interfere with our pay. this is clearly stated in the treaty of lisbon. and what is the commission doing? what does a large majority in the european parliament do? of course, you're starting to get involved in pay. now you want to implement the european minimum wage, which has the potential to destroy the successful danish labour market model. this is stupid. i don't care how you organize yourselves in your own countries. you're on your own. i just wish you'd stay out of it like we do in denmark. commissioner schmit, he has even issued legal and political guarantees to denmark that our model is protected. but, commissioner, where in the world does it say that commissioners can in future issue political and legal guarantees which the activist european court of justice must respect and accept until the sun goes down? i don't believe in your promises or your declarations of intent. the eu must not become a giant on our labour market or change the social welfare systems that are inextricably linked to labour market policy.
mr. chairman, please. i would like to follow up on one of the first questions to be asked in this round, which was about the african countries. because as i understand it, there were countries in africa that mr. borrell had not been in contact with or had not been to that clearly teamed up with russia. i would like to know whether the european union is making contributions to african countries which may not even take back expelled citizens who are actively intervening in a war on the european continent, against our interests, against the wishes of the vast majority. and then i'd like to know what the foreign secretary is going to do to ensure that, of course, that behavior is dealt with. it goes without saying that europe must pursue its own interests. we must not be subject to despots around the world, whether they are from africa, the middle east or russia. i look forward to your answer, mr. borrell.
for the id group. - madam president! it must be absolutely clear that our full support and sympathy is with taiwan. it's a completely unique state. a unique democratic society, which other democracies around the world have, in my view, a clear obligation to take on board. the western world should therefore clearly signal its unity and solidarity with taiwan. it is good that senior us politicians are taking the time to visit taiwan to clearly show the support needed. and we should stand shoulder to shoulder with the americans in europe when it comes to major areas of foreign policy, when it comes to protecting democracies around the world, when it comes to military engagement to protect, among other things, unique communities like taiwan. and then we have to say, there are only two chinese. there's mainland china, and then there's taiwan. and we don't like communist china. we don't like blackmail. we do not like people who want to buy up our critical infrastructure so that they can later bring our continent to its knees. we'll have to take a different route there.
for the id group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. it is hard to believe your ears when you hear the debate here today. the debate on the humane treatment, protection and respect of migrants. but tell me, is it not time we had a debate on the protection and respect of the peoples of europe? and is it not time for the european union to start taking an interest in the europeans who every day have to face the muslim terror, crime, violence, rape, domination, gang crime and social controls that are all inextricably linked to islamic immigration and are a direct result of your blunt border policy and your lax immigration policy? i think europe deserves better than that. when you put the migrants first, we put the europeans first. i think that after all, europe is still the continent of the different europeans. that we have the right to europe. i do not want to see that right eroded by your politically correct consideration for unwanted migrants from the middle east and africa. your politics is not the politics of the heart. your policy is cynical and cold towards europe and the europeans.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. we shape our buildings, and they shape us, said winston churchill. but as the daughter of a carpenter and a nurse, i too grew up with the very logic that people and bricks affect each other. i've also been an expert for many years on how architecture affects people who are in hospitals or dementia patients who live in nursing homes, so that's why the bauhaus concept makes a lot of sense. but it must also create value for ordinary people and for generations after us. it must not be an elitist judgment of taste, which declares something to be more bauhaus-like than something else, without being able to qualify its starting point and its essence in evidence-based methods. i am therefore very pleased that the report which we are now presenting to the commission from the european parliament contains specific proposals on how we can get more knowledge, more facts, so that we can create the value that the bauhaus can do for the european union.
rapporteur. – madam president, i thank you, colleagues, for backing this deal with a broad majority. thank you to the shadows. we have made an agreement, which is good for the climate and bad for putin. and i would like to request the referral back to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations according to rule 59(4).
i have to say, madam president, if this year's state of the union does not mention industrial policy in a single word, we must, and that is why it is good that we now have a broad and solid blanket of recommendations on how the eu develops and maintains our economic muscle. the muscle that should enable us to do all the good and indispensable things for each other and the next generation like the climate, nature, the education of our children and youth, social safety nets, peace and freedom, which must never lack resources because we have not taken care of our economic muscle. the report's negotiator stresses the importance of cooperation with public and private companies. and the report says a lot about research and innovation. all of them are crucial ingredients. it is also a regulatory breathing space for legislation, as my colleagues have also mentioned in their speeches. but no one has mentioned the patent rights, the ip rights. inventors, entrepreneurs, companies throwing astronomical amounts of money at developing ideas that they never know will ever come to fruition. it is no use that ip rights in the eu are worse than those of our global competitors. so if the commission is to start from a good place, from what you are getting with our industrial strategy, then take up ip rights. we can't water them.
for the ppe group. - madam president! ocean governance - the area of policies and activities relating to the sea and coastal areas and the many marine resources - is now receiving a report from the european parliament. it does so, in part, because for too many years we have not given high priority to the biodiversity and potential of the ocean. we must not continue to do so, because in the long run it is a question of the survival of the planet, and in the short term it is a question of the europe that our children and grandchildren will inherit from us. but also because much of our economic and ecological sustainability depends on how we treat the oceans in and around the eu. the report has become a bit long because it repeats a lot of what we have already said that we agree on in relation to biodiversity. but it also says something new and important, namely that we must have a push for the deployment of wind energy - including the liquid part of the system. of course, we must also continue to drill wisely into the seabed to get the energy we simply cannot do without right now. we also need to continue to drill the seabed wisely to develop co2 rather than store it. several analyses show that this can easily be done without destroying marine ecosystems. and then, in general, we need to take a much more innovative approach to the treasures and the opportunities of the sea. the blue economy with its maritime transport, tourism and green technologies, which are still unknown and not widely used, needs to be given more attention, and hopefully this report will do that.
madam chairman! my speech will not be like all the previous ones. because i think it's so easy to stand on this podium and pour water out of the ears of politicians and talk political correctness so it's basking. it's just all too easy. because what about you? what about us? would you like to have a roma camp in your own backyard? would you like to have a roma camp in the local park? how would you like to have a roma camp around the corner from where you live? and when you talk about the social inclusion of roma communities, would you think that it is your children who should be involved in the inclusion of roma in your own schools, in your own leisure activities, etc.? i simply do not believe it. i might as well be honest and say that i will not accept travelling groups of roma who, because of your freedom of movement, can travel freely in europe. it makes people worried, it makes people afraid, if suddenly there's a roma camp around the corner. and i won't accept that.
there is an internet meme which is, ‘is the eu concerned?’ high representative, you spoke about the eu’s credibility. the eu’s credibility is at stake here. georgia, armenia, ukraine: we’ve seen frozen conflicts and we’ve seen aggression. but what is the european union actually doing? how are we responding to azerbaijan’s aggressive invasion of armenia? on thursday in prague, there is a meeting of the european political community. there will be a discussion, i think at 2 o’clock, where we will be discussing peace and security. why is azerbaijan invited to this meeting?
mr president, i would like to thank you. when russia invaded ukraine, many thought it would be a short war. but it was not a short war. now the situation has fundamentally changed. russia is doing badly on the battlefield. russia never won a quick victory. ukrainian forces are now pushing russia back. the russian army has proven ineffective and the soldiers appear to be poorly motivated. and now putin has to call in more troops, which is causing russians to flee to the west in very large numbers. putin must have overestimated himself, underestimated the ukrainians and ignored the reaction of the west. the sanctions are not going away again. they're here to stay. i support them, and i'm ready for a lot more. before the war broke out, it seemed that many western leaders were neglecting to listen to the balts and poles, who have long warned of the intentions of russia and putin. we must not make that mistake again. we cannot allow western leaders to be bogged down in long and understanding telephone conversations with putin, because russia as a country has to learn the consequences of unprovoked attacks on a peaceful neighbour. our task must be to make europe less dependent on russia and at the same time to keep the morale and fighting spirit of the ukrainians up so that they can hopefully push the russians out of the occupied territories. europe, the west must not give an inch to putin. not now, not now! i will never do that!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have a fundamental belief in the freedom of nation states to decide and choose where they want to belong. that is why the annexation by russia, which began on 24 february, and now, most recently, the sabotage we have seen near denmark and sweden in the baltic sea, are totally unacceptable. so in the wake of the war, we see war crimes that are 2022 totally, totally unworthy. the russian aggression is putting an end to the export of food from ukraine, with the major consequences for third countries. the war has also brought with it a serious energy crisis, which is driving energy prices skyrocketing and has major consequences for european households and businesses. we're looking at a long, cold winter. that's why we need to act now. when putin forces us to cut back on the heat, we have to increase our energy production from renewable energy, coal, oil and shale gas. that is how we protect european sovereignty.
mr. chairman, please. i thank the commissioners and the president for allowing us to have this debate. i am a farmer and the first time i entered this chamber three years ago i was wearing rubber boots. i promised then that if times were hard for farming, i would do it again. and now i am, which is why i'm wearing the rubber boots today. the problems are caused by the lack of fertiliser in europe. without fertilizer, without crops, without food. as much as 60-70% of european fertiliser production is down, with dramatic consequences for the coming 2023 harvest. and it's hard for farmers to run a profitable business. we who are sitting here now have a huge responsibility to get this thing resolved. we are in the midst of a serious food crisis. it is becoming more and more difficult for our european farmers to produce enough food for the world's population. and it's going to get even worse in 2023. that is why we must produce our own fertiliser in the eu. our agricultural production must not be held hostage. this requires that we give priority to the energy for fertiliser production and at the same time that farmers can buy fertiliser at a profitable price. at the same time, we must ensure that the plate is filled everywhere in the world. that is why we must support fertiliser production with our solidarity fund and recovery plans which can compensate for the high fertiliser prices. and of course we have to support all kinds of new technology. it's time we put on the work gloves and the rubber boots.
thank you commissioner for being here today in this very important debate. as mentioned previously by colleagues, the recent nord stream attacks have shown the fragility of our physical critical infrastructure. however, we must not forget the significant increase in cyber attacks since russia again invaded ukraine. also here in particular, it has been on energy infrastructure. we welcome, i welcome, the work done on ensuring security both online and offline. and we must look at ukraine that has been dealing with such attacks from russia since 2012. in 2017, a group of russian hackers managed an attack which took down the it systems of the danish shipping company maersk. the global cost of this attack was to the tune of usd 10 billion. so it is not a question about if we will be hacked; it is a question about when, and how strong our defence will be. when we saw in 2017 that even one of the largest shipping companies was not spared, how can we then make sure that our european companies have the defences that they need? how can we support them? and also, finally, how can we, as europe, learn from ukraine’s experience on cybersecurity, and how can we continually exchange with ukraine also before they become a member of nato?
mr. chairman, please. there are so many things to be said over and over and over. but we must never stop, we must deliver, also a strong resolution as a reminder of all that we are going to achieve in egypt next month. and this year we are actually very well prepared, because we have made a more concrete and action-oriented decision than ever before. and it is important at a time when more and more citizens are losing confidence that we politicians can find ways to work together on solutions instead of competing for the greenest in our mouths. let me therefore highlight two of the important, concrete messages of this year's cop resolution. one is about the fact that water is a critical, challenging and challenging resource that we simply need to get better at tackling. we must do everything we can to make our societies more water-smart in the full and diverse sense of the word. secondly, and very briefly, it is good that there is a lot of attention and proposals on small and mediumsized enterprises and the competitiveness of the european union. both as topics for the green transition, but also as a tool for the green transition and the way to deliver on the paris agreement.
mr president, i would like to thank you. for decades, we've known that we're heading for a climate catastrophe. we know the consequences, but we have refused to face them. we can see that climate change is not just about the future, climate change is now. it is a reality. forest fires, floods and droughts are all clear signs of a world that is beginning to speak. but what we are experiencing in these years is only a foretaste of the all-encompassing disaster we are headed for if we do not change course and if we do not do so now. when the nations of the world meet in egypt at the cop27 summit, that is precisely what is to be done. how do we keep climate change at a level that doesn't lead to a climate catastrophe? the paris agreement sets a target of global warming of no more than 1.5 degrees. we know that anything above that level will have fatal consequences. so our job in egypt is to make sure that climate change doesn't go any higher than that. keep 1.5 alive for the sake of the planet and for the sake of our children and grandchildren.
i have to say, madam president, at a police station, a woman is trying to get help. her ex-boyfriend had now come to see her. she had run away to another town to get away from him. she had video footage with her, and for two years she had been reporting him, and now she asked frustrated: "can't you do something right now?" the police replied that they could not do so unless the man had physically harmed her or had violated a law or a code of conduct. partner murder is the largest single type of homicide in denmark, and the victims are most often women. but we have no action plan yet to prevent these killings. and that's despite the fact that research shows that it's the most predictable crime if you see the danger signals and react in time. therefore, when a woman in an abusive relationship approaches our authorities, she should be received by people who can take the right steps to protect her immediately. based on the research and knowledge we have, we can ensure that partner murder is prevented. it takes action to spread knowledge and tools. member states must plan how they will act. we must ensure that member states listen to research, talk to each other and learn from each other. partner murder is preventable, but we're not doing it yet. many of the women killed had sought help. it's not working. we can and we should do better than this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. - i'm not going to lie to you. 70% of the european fertiliser industry is closed. this has already had a major impact on farmers and the food crisis is worsening. we have now been able to export grain from ukraine, but that is not enough. if we don't act now, the situation in 2023 will be much, much worse. the average european is currently seeing food prices go up and up. in third world countries, millions of people will go to bed hungry. we are entering a time of widespread famine. we are heading for a time when we risk large flows of migration to europe if we do not act now. that is why we must give priority to energy for the fertiliser industry. at the same time we must ensure that our european colleagues can buy fertiliser at a reasonable price so that we can remedy the food crisis. filling the plate is as important as having enough energy to heat the houses. gambling with food security could lead to chaos throughout europe. i just want to remind you that three days of bread shortages in paris created the french revolution.
mr. chairman, please. can we afford christmas presents? can you afford food and heat? is there money for medicine? this is the concern of millions of europeans. a concern that eu leaders have not yet taken seriously. rising prices are putting pressure on the economy for many, and for some the burden has already become unbearable. as people freeze, as people leave their homes, yes, companies are raking in record profits. the money's here. we can walk through this crisis together. we can help the hardest hit without breathing down the barrel of inflation. but it does require politicians to take responsibility. tax the excess profits. help the single mother so her children can stay warm. help the sick. help the lowest-paid. take responsibility and let us safely pass through this crisis.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the commissioner and especially my colleague pascal durand for having conducted this debate and achieved the fine result. this legislation is the whole foundation of our sustainable transition. here we are setting the framework for our companies in a genuinely social liberal way. we use competition and market forces to create a better world for all - including the future. now companies can no longer hide behind sustainability slogans, but literally have to be accountable for their actions. if they produce sustainably and in accordance with human rights and without support for forced labour, so that all our good intentions can come true. so that we can make sure that our shopping cart and our retirement investments follow values and make demands. with the new law we have ensured that the european parliament has continuous influence on the proper reporting standards to be set which will ensure that the law becomes a reality. this is a liberal, european fingerprint, not just on the eu, but on the whole world. we are setting reasonable standards for small businesses, while at the same time creating a level playing field for all businesses on the european market.
for the ppe group. - madam president! a resolution on diabetes? yeah, why not? it is ten years since the last time and the challenges have not diminished, nor has the scale. today, 33 million citizens in the eu have diabetes, and by 2030 38 million will have it. most of the types that are related to lifestyle: how much we eat, what we eat, how much we sleep, how much we move, and so on. everything we try to prevent or prohibit, depending on the political stance. but it also depends on whether we have the courage to shift the debate about diabetes and understand that diabetes is a symptom, that we have not yet understood that severe obesity is often the cause. a reason that is not about the fact that everyone who is overweight has chosen it and can change it. no, severe obesity or its precursors is actually a chronic disease, which affects almost 60 percent of all adults in the european union. that's a crazy number. it is a chronic condition that many people never recover from - no matter how much they change their diet or their exercise routine. a chronic condition that still lives in the shelter of our fear of talking about being overweight. a chronic disease which is therefore contributing to the development of diabetes in a growing number of citizens, which could in fact have been avoided. a chronic condition that costs a fortune! you also lost quality of life. as a nurse - and as a european politician - i am simply so tired of the fact that we treat selected diseases without addressing the root cause of the over 200 other diseases - besides diabetes - that weigh on the individual, the family and the social economy. however, let us recognize throughout the eu - as the who has long since proposed - that severe obesity is a chronic disease and must be treated as such.
madam chairman! the football world cup in qatar is a scandal. behind the glittering facades lie the blood, sweat and tears of thousands of migrant workers who have toiled in the desert sun. they died by the thousands, while the world stood by and watched. this subservience to the brutal dictatorship of the desert must end. the eu should clearly state that it is not taking part. don't hide behind some lame excuse. stand up to the oppression. the scandal in qatar should not only lead to a diplomatic boycott. we also need to make sure that this never happens again. no oppressive dictatorship should be able to afford to buy into major sporting events. football should be for everyone. including lgbt+ people. and never again will the ball roll over the bodies of thousands of dead workers.
madam president, today, i feel embarrassed. today, i feel ashamed. today, i feel sad. i feel embarrassed, ashamed and sad because what might very well be the darkest moment in the history of sports is taking place right now as we speak – the world cup in qatar. and we should not be silent about that for the next 3 000 years as somebody wants us to be. because since qatar was handed the world cup, more than 6 500 migrant workers have lost their lives, because it’s illegal to be in a union or to be homosexual in qatar, because human rights are violated every single day, and fifa and the qatari regime don’t seem to care at all about it. today, i feel certain that if we want things to change, we need a fundamental reform of fifa. mr infantino, do us all a favour, step down now.
i have to say, madam president, we stand on the shoulders of giants. we have not reached this point alone. this is the result of years of work. the eu has been ensuring equality in europe for more than 40 years. we hadn't been paid equally. we wouldn't have had the ear-marked maternity leave if it wasn't for the eu. today we are making sure that we get gender equality on the boards of our companies. because we get what we measure. that is why we will make member states responsible from 2026 for ensuring equality on the boards. that is why this directive is so important. we set the direction, we raise the bar for what equality means. we are not going to have a quota for women, but we are going to abolish the quota for incompetent men. we're going to make sure that it's actually people's qualifications and not who you know or what gender you are. i therefore welcome very much the fact that we have the directive here today and i look forward to the member states doing something about equal opportunities, so that we start from the bottom and not just raise the bar to the top.
the blue card entry. thank you very much for your comments. i do not quite understand one element of your speech: that one should be elected on the basis of quotas and not on the basis of qualifications, when the directive itself says that it is equally qualified candidates that one must choose from. if you are equally qualified, you should prefer the one who is of the sex that is least represented. i agree with the speaker that it is not quotas alone that can do this, but that it is about equality. but how are we going to achieve equality when for over a hundred years we have had access for women to universities, we have had access for women to vote, but we still do not see equality? the rapporteur does not think that there is a genetic or biological difference between men and women which makes women less competent, does he?
i have to say, madam president, we have invented so many deep dishes in the eu. many new energy technologies are also better for the climate and the environment. we just don't have enough of them. for many reasons. too many reasons. because we're messing around with individual projects that don't fit in with the rest of the energy sector. both within the member states and across them. we are messing with too slow a rate of approval of critical infrastructure, and we are messing with political signals, regulatory instability and the size of possible investment projects to such an extent that even european investors prefer to put their money outside the eu when it comes to green investment projects. it hurts to say it! so dear commission and council, do as my colleague, maria carvalho, said at the beginning of the debate: 'make a plan and get on with it!' for what is the use of having large parks of giant wind turbines, building clusters of energy islands, building large power-to-x plants, etc., if the clean and renewable energy that can be produced cannot reach the market throughout the eu via plentiful pipelines, learning opportunities, ports and other transport routes? that is the way we will never get energy prices down and security of supply up. it's so common. so, clean up, pick up the pace and get started now!
blue-card speech. – thank you very much for your intervention. i think it’s important that we look at the facts, and the european agency for fundamental rights had a 2012 survey that showed that 33% of all women have experienced violence against them based on their gender. do you claim that this is only from refugees, or should we look at where the violence against women comes from – that it is an integral part, unfortunately, of all parts of our society?
madam president, commissioner, we need a policy based on facts. we need a policy based on science and we need a policy of prevention. the european council of fundamental rights had a survey in 2012 that showed that 33% of european women have experienced violence – 52% of danish women. now we are filling the gaps of knowledge, but only with a survey in eight countries. we need more facts on violence against women. we also need prevention. there are seven steps, which can warn us before the murder of women, before the final step of a murder of a woman. we also need to recognise the problem. the danish general public, in 2014, refused the facts because they didn’t believe that we had such violence against women in denmark. and we need concrete action from member states, from our authorities, to protect women so that we can prevent murders. finally, we need to talk about the violence that we experience. warriors in the fight against violence against women walk between us. i am one of these warriors. in 2009, i managed to leave an abusive relationship. we must stop romanticising psychological violence. we must stop the killing of women.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since 2016, wolf populations have increased by over 30% in the eu. this means that there are now over 20,000 wolves in the eu. there's no room for that. neither in the eu nor in denmark. the farmers feel powerless against repeated attacks. unfortunately, the habitats directive is holding back our efforts to solve the problem. it is not right that an old law from 1992 cannot solve the problem. when the predator population develops beyond the level of protection, yes, we must act. it's not just about the wolf. the cormorant, the black-footed ferret and the seal are also a growing problem in the habitats directive. both animals and people suffer under the legislation we have right now. neither fences nor money will solve the problem. we need to reopen the habitats directive. the habitats directive needs to be modernised to reflect the reality of the situation today.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, this climate summit in egypt was indeed a disappointment, taking into consideration that we did not manage to agree on the reduction targets that we need, we did not manage to increase the speed of the climate action sufficiently. we did manage one positive thing, which was the compensation fund that the rich countries have to pay to the less rich countries, compensating them for the climate damage which is being done, which is mainly our responsibility in the rich world historically, in a historical perspective. the eu has been much criticised. i think the eu did play a positive role. i think the eu was really the only actor who took responsibility to increase among few actors, but one of the greatest powers that increased its reduction target and also put the fund on the compensation question on the agenda. that was the eu’s contribution. i think we need to see much more of that positive contribution from the european union because we need to speed up action. the climate targets that we have are way too low. if we also look out in the world, russia climate neutral by 2060, china 2060, india 2070 – 20 years too late. that’s not good enough. the eu needs to inspire. the eu also needs to push by saying we want to trade with you, but only if you also increase your reduction targets and do more. and that’s the legislation that we work on now and we will need to get that done as soon as possible.
madam chairman! on 29 november, less than two weeks ago, germany signed an agreement with qatar for 15 years to supply two million tonnes of liquefied gas a year. earlier this year, the eu concluded an agreement with azerbaijan. by 2027, they must supply 20 million cubic metres of gas to the eu. that's double what it is today. i recognize that right now, with the cold hitting europe, we have no choice. it's a tragedy that we ended up like this. but it is tragic that our leaders have for decades tied us to the natural gas of a rogue state, and we must get rid of that as soon as possible. that is why it is in our common interest to get rid of russian gas, not to become entangled with new rogue states. it is in our common interest to develop renewable energy as quickly as possible, install heat pumps, strengthen our electricity grid, install solar panels and wind turbines. we must take that responsibility. let's do this as quickly as possible. let's get a new renewable energy law passed to kick-start the green transition.
blue-card speech. – heidi hautala, you mentioned that you wrote a letter in 2021 to the president of the parliament with concrete proposals. could you elaborate on what the concrete proposals were in that letter?
mr president, commissioner, the extent of the alleged corruption is criminal. it must be prosecuted and we must investigate how we can do better. however, no matter how good the rules are, there will always be criminals who take the risk and the suitcase of euro notes. but we can make stronger rules. we need to clean up our act in the european parliament. we need to do away with informal friendship groups outside the rules of parliament and replace them with regulated interpolitical groups. we need to extend our transparency register to representatives of foreign governments and former meps. thank you, colleagues and commissioner, for your support for an ethics body with investigative powers for all the eu institutions, which renew europe has called for since 2019. and rules cannot stand alone. we must not accept colleagues being unduly influenced to change wording, votes and legislation. to help expose criminality, we must make our whistleblower system stronger. and finally, to my colleagues, if you see something that seems odd or out of line with previous opinions or known facts, then do something, confront your colleagues and even your political leadership. it is a joint responsibility to prevent the corruption of the few.
blue—card speech. – member bonfrisco, you mentioned the abraham accords as part of a solution for finding peace and a two—state solution. the palestinian representatives were not involved in negotiating these abraham accords, which were initiated by president trump and his son—in—law. how do you see them as part of a two—state solution if the palestinians were not invited?
mr president, thank you, commissioner, for your presence. and thank you to our negotiators for the great work that you’ve done. as a teenager, the news was filled with hebron and the fighting between israeli settlers and palestinian residents. when visiting israel and palestine in 2019, the recent history of hebron stood out because hebron of the 1990s has become the blueprint for settler organisations to continue illegal settlements that render a two-state solution impossible. i am as a supporter of a safe, secure israeli state, just as i’m the supporter of a safe, secure palestinian state, and this resolution supports this. however, for nearly 20 years, successive israeli governments have allowed and even promoted the undermining of a two-state solution. netanyahu: previously you internationally confirmed your commitment to a two-state solution. during the israeli election campaign you said the opposite. so what will be the answer of your new israeli government? i call for the israeli government to take steps to stop the occupation. settlements must not be transformed into annexation. they must not hinder a viable palestinian state. i insist the european union must uphold the rule of international law, including a distinction between the lands of israel and the lands of illegally occupied territories.
(blue-card speech). – thank you very much. you mentioned that we should not suspend our protection of human rights. how do you see the importance of our urgency resolutions here in the parliament, in our fight for the human rights across the world?
(blue-card speech). – thank you very much, mr glucksmann. you mentioned that we should ban the import of forced labour goods into the european union. how is the production of forced labour goods in china helping to support the chinese government also in its crackdown on protests in china?
author. – madam president, it is right and it is important that we in the european parliament today debate the situation of human rights in bahrain, especially the situation of danish-bahraini citizen, abdulhadi al-khawaja, whose health is in danger because of his imprisonment of 11 years, whose family has only once been allowed to visit him in the last 2 years. we will not be silenced. and they have tried. bahrain actively tried to tarnish the reputation of this internationally respected human rights defender to meps to stop this debate. i will never remain silent in the face of repression and i will never remain silent if i suspect corruption or undue influence. we must not accept colleagues being unduly influenced to change the wording of our work, or our votes. even suspicion must not be allowed. it destroys the reputation of our house. so, colleagues, i will confront you and even your political leadership on this. the bahraini government must not be allowed to silence the voices of bahrain. i condemn the severe continued repression of civic and political space in bahrain. bahraini authorities should restore political society to give full civil and political rights to all opposition members. the horrific regime in iran, close to bahrain, and iran’s regional influence must not be an excuse to close down democracy and imprison political opponents for years. finally, we as the european union cannot claim to support democracy in the world and export surveillance and repression. technology from the european union must never be exported to suppress our core values of human rights and democracy, to silence the voices of human rights. so member states, you must do more. every member state must look critically at the export licenses for european surveillance software under the dual—use regulation.
