mr president, i would like to begin by acknowledging the figure of david sassoli and what he has meant to this parliament. comrades, it is an honour for me to represent the left in this process, a humble group, but one which has been essential in building a more democratic, more just and more fraternal europe. our vocation always: to improve the lives of working people, of the social majority. we live in a world with limited resources. the answer cannot be that only a few have rights and access to those resources. we need firm decisions that will deal with the consequences of a climate emergency that is already here. that is why we believe that, as we debate the future of europe, we must commit ourselves to more democracy. and that means that this parliament must push for decisions that respond to the great challenges we face in the context of the ecosocial crisis. in addition, we must advocate a just solution to the crisis generated by the pandemic, defending employment and public services. and of course this parliament must defend women's rights. not one step back in our right to decide about our own bodies, not one step back in our right to abortion. we need to be able to debate in a public space free from the poison of lies, a space as diverse and plural as european society. we need to move away from a far right that only brings fear, hatred and violence so that the rights of all become the privilege of a few. it is not by chance that they attack lgbtq people, women, migrants. in fact, the far right has declared war on human rights because, in their narrow model of society, we are the majority. their project is that of a minority that needs to confront us from below so that those at the top can continue to enrich themselves at the expense of our precariousness. they have declared war on human rights. we fight to abolish injustice and inequality. that is why we must point out that the old formulas for dealing with this threat are showing their limits. the seams of this so-called health cord of the large coalitions are being torn out and the right wing is showing too much tolerance for extremist approaches. i would therefore like to remind you that the anti-fascist axis is an essential feature of european democracies. moreover, european cohesion is rooted in a continent torn apart by nazi and fascist barbarism. constitutions such as the italian or the german ones reflect this post-world war ii spirit. but these are not just stories from the past. i come from spain, the country where this global phenomenon has been created, which is la casa de papel. its writer, one of the architects of the bella ciao being sung again all over the planet, tells us that the day has not yet dawned when it is not a good idea to sing an antifascist anthem. the anthem we are singing today is for a more social, more ecological, more feminist europe. it is enough for us to build a broad democratic alliance between those of us who stand in the face of reactionary barbarism. so, colleagues who share these ideas, let me make this appeal: let us build together a new consensus that puts the common good and social rights at the centre. let us learn the lessons of history and seize the opportunity to emerge from this crisis without leaving anyone behind. we do not give in to the talk of an authoritarian invasion. we don't ally ourselves with those who share your agenda or part of your agenda. that would be an implicit acknowledgement that democracy is losing. we will not give in to the reactionaries and their allies. so i ask for your support from all of those, from all of those who, like us, recognize - you recognize - the dignity of those who save lives in the mediterranean, from the working class who mobilize for their rights, from women who challenge reactionary governments - their governments! - demanding freedom to decide about their bodies, from the youth who occupy the squares demanding effective measures to address the climate crisis, from those who fight for public services. i ask for your support for a new feminist horizon, because feminism has come to change everything to say with pride that the history of europe has also been written by women and we will continue to write it from the sisterhood, from the struggle for equality. i ask for your support for a proposal inspired by the democratic and revolutionary europe, the one which added fraternity to freedom and equality. i ask for your support so that we can build together a more democratic, a more just and a more fraternal europe, and ultimately an anti-fascist europe. up with the fighting!
mr president, there are several ways of making the european union stronger. one of them is to fully respect diversity. we cannot be afraid of diversity, nor distrust democracy, because these are elements which must be at the heart of our common action. but diversity, especially linguistic diversity, is not in a good place in europe today. in catalonia, the spanish courts want to overturn the educational model that has allowed all students to master both catalan and spanish. in france, languages such as occitan, corsican, breton, alsatian, basque and catalan are still considered second-class. be brave so that these languages have the rights and resources they deserve, as the original molac law intended. mr president, you spoke of the european promise of democracy. we hope that in the european union you will work for the respect of the democratic right of all peoples to choose their own better future.
madam president, mr president of the republic, we remember your speech at the sorbonne in september 2017, the display of a certain european ambition that has proved, every day of your mandate, to be increasingly empty and often very arrogant. we are now on the eve of a new election. president but above all candidate, you are using the french presidency of the european union as a communication operation and not as a lever for effective action in the service of nations and peoples, although you defended yourself against this. it's a way to forget your past and especially your failures. failure on the part-time job. your tour of the eastern countries has not changed the unfair competition within europe, since social security contributions are still paid in the countries of origin. failure to enforce europe and france. when erdogan provokes, humiliates, even threatens, billions of euros of subsidies continue to be poured into turkey, which looks more and more like a racket. and as a bonus, we're renewing the customs union agreement. failure on nuclear, which you abandoned for four years, which you recently rediscovered. but your commissioner, thierry breton, admits that by 2050 nuclear electricity generation will have to rise from 26% today to 15%. failure of the european recovery plan for which france will receive 39 billion, but will have to pay 70 billion. failure on the borders you promised to protect, migrants entering illegally by the hundreds of thousands and france is the red lantern of europe, with barely one illegal in 10 being deported. so who can believe that you will do in a few months, but in reality in a few useful weeks only of french presidency of the eu, what you have not done in 5 years, especially since you are carrying out a programme which is not so much yours as that of the commission. and that is probably what the french, but also the other peoples of europe, can blame you most. the need to defend the external borders, the affirmation of a civilization project for a proud europe, the democratic will for a europe of freedoms, the hope for a powerful europe based on cooperation rather than coercion, the nations were waiting for the uniqueness and strength of a french voice. you have refused to make it heard, preferring to stay in the well-worn ways of brussels technocracy. the french presidency already sounds like a great missed opportunity.
madam president, congratulations, mr president macron, you have now succeeded in convincing many millions of europeans that the europe they want is the opposite of yours, the europe which you have come to with such arrogance, with such arrogance, to the european parliament, which has abused time massively to campaign for the french elections in parliament, as you have done in this absolutely unusual reply of 39 minutes. it turns out that europe is in a dramatic situation, with an explicit military threat from the east of the european union, and we have poland directly threatened along with ukraine. and you don't come here to defend the borders, to defend poland, but to scold the whole world. everybody is to blame. poland and hungary are very much to blame, you say, when you are applying measures under the pretext of covid that look like the chinese measures. and when the violence you exert against the yellow vests and other protesters is chinese too. that is a violation of the rule of law, not what you are using for your ideological war against poland and hungary. it's unheard of for him to be here, the way he's spoken: he hasn't said a word about the family, not a word about birth, about that problem, or about the enormous economic problems that exist for families beset by the pandemic. and it turns out that abortion rights is your priority? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
madam president, i would like to say the following to president macron. mr president, as you said, europe needs new fiscal rules. you argued this very persuasively with mr draghi in the financial times. the existing rules are neither credible nor counter—cyclical. moreover, as you have just argued, the new rules must allow for increased investment in climate, so we need to invest an additional 1% of our gdp to fight climate change. how do we do this? my proposal is to sidestep the existing system and build a parallel one. after all, as the german finance minister, mr lindner, said recently, the existing rules have shown that they can be flexible. an opinion by the commission could entrench that flexibility. the new system would have two pillars. the first would be a climate investment fund that would provide new loans and grants to member states that comply with a new counter—cyclical expenditure rule. the second pillar would be a new european independent fiscal agency which would ensure that only countries that comply with those counter—cyclical expenditure rules have access to the fund. mr president, as you can see, this is inspired by our historic recovery and resilience facility, which we approved last year. i hope we can make history together.
madam president, the french presidency's programme is a strategic compass, a euro-army and an arms race. with the involvement of the greek government, aggressive planning is being promoted, by targeting geostrategically important areas in the fierce and dangerous competition of the european union with the usa, china, russia in the indo-pacific and africa. the commission's programme therefore follows the well-known trajectory of the barbarity of the exploitative system, and the french presidency's slogan of responsible capitalism is only interpreted as a joke. as people suffer from the unpopular management of the pandemic across the european union, the french presidency is deepening the criminal strategy of unarmed and commercialised public health systems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. the people to oppose new green and digital taxes, digital regulations on capital measures, the perpetuation of telework and the golden party of business groups with the recovery fund.
madam president, president macron, we are facing great challenges in the next six months: in the face of the pandemic, let us continue to promote vaccination and promote the europe of health; in the face of the economic crisis, let us support our industry, workers, the self-employed, farmers and livestock farmers. therefore, let us use next generation eu funds efficiently to modernise the economy and create jobs: control, transparency, and a correct and rapid implementation of funds are necessary; it is unacceptable that governments like the spanish have not executed half of the european funds planned for 2021, while we suffer the highest unemployment rate in europe. president macron, europe is incomprehensibly absent from the international table, and you have not mentioned latin america, when it should continue to be a geographical strategic area for europe. if we ignore it, other actors who do not share our values will take our place: in international politics, as you know, there are no empty spaces. let's recover and boost our role in the world.
emmanuel macron has identified as the main objectives of the french presidency the defence of the rule of law and democratic principles, as well as legislative dossiers aimed at improving the quality of employment, ensuring decent wages, reducing the gender pay gap, giving rights to workers on digital platforms, combating discrimination and ensuring gender balance in boards of directors. it has also proposed including the right to abortion in the eu charter of fundamental rights and prioritising political action on climate, digital and security challenges. for the socialists it is crucial to complete important pending reforms such as the establishment of minimum wages throughout the eu, the regulation of the working conditions of platform workers, the creation of a living wage or the launch of the social climate fund. we also call for the anti-discrimination directive to be unblocked and for the directive on gender-based violence to be supported. and that the conditionality mechanism be applied to uphold the rule of law and new tax rules be introduced to support the public investment needed to boost the green transition and the digital transition.
in writing. emmanuel macron outlined the main objectives of the presidency, emphasising the defence of the rule of law and democratic principles, as well as the legislative dossiers aimed at improving the quality of employment, ensuring decent wages, reducing the gender pay gap, giving rights to workers on digital platforms, combating discrimination and ensuring gender balance in boards of directors. she also proposed including the right to abortion in the eu charter of fundamental rights and prioritising political action on climate, digital and security challenges. the socialists insist on the importance of completing important outstanding reforms such as the establishment of minimum wages throughout the eu, the regulation of the working conditions of workers on the platforms, the creation of a living wage or the launch of the social climate fund. we also call for the anti-discrimination directive to be unblocked and for the directive on gender-based violence to be supported. and that the conditionality mechanism be applied to uphold the rule of law and new tax rules be introduced to support the public investment needed to boost the green transition and the digital transition.
emmanuel macron has identified as the main objectives of the french presidency the defence of the rule of law and democratic principles, as well as legislative dossiers aimed at improving the quality of employment, ensuring decent wages, reducing the gender pay gap, giving rights to workers on digital platforms, combating discrimination and ensuring gender balance in boards of directors. it has also proposed including the right to abortion in the eu charter of fundamental rights and prioritising political action on climate, digital and security challenges. for the socialists it is crucial to complete important pending reforms such as the establishment of minimum wages throughout the eu, the regulation of the working conditions of platform workers, the creation of a living wage or the launch of the social climate fund. we also call for the anti-discrimination directive to be unblocked and for the directive on gender-based violence to be supported. and that the conditionality mechanism be applied to uphold the rule of law and new tax rules be introduced to support the public investment needed to boost the green transition and the digital transition.
in writing. emmanuel macron outlined the main objectives of the presidency, emphasising the defence of the rule of law and democratic principles, as well as the legislative dossiers aimed at improving the quality of employment, ensuring decent wages, reducing the gender pay gap, giving rights to workers on digital platforms, combating discrimination and ensuring gender balance in boards of directors. she also proposed including the right to abortion in the eu charter of fundamental rights and prioritising political action on climate, digital and security challenges. the socialists insist on the importance of completing important outstanding reforms such as the establishment of minimum wages throughout the eu, the regulation of the working conditions of workers on the platforms, the creation of a living wage or the launch of the social climate fund. we also call for the anti-discrimination directive to be unblocked and for the directive on gender-based violence to be supported. and that the conditionality mechanism be applied to uphold the rule of law and new tax rules be introduced to support the public investment needed to boost the green transition and the digital transition.
in writing. emmanuel macron outlined the main objectives of the presidency, emphasising the defence of the rule of law and democratic principles, as well as the legislative dossiers aimed at improving the quality of employment, ensuring decent wages, reducing the gender pay gap, giving rights to workers on digital platforms, combating discrimination and ensuring gender balance in boards of directors. she also proposed including the right to abortion in the eu charter of fundamental rights and prioritising political action on climate, digital and security challenges. the socialists insist on the importance of completing important outstanding reforms such as the establishment of minimum wages throughout the eu, the regulation of the working conditions of workers on the platforms, the creation of a living wage or the launch of the social climate fund. we also call for the anti-discrimination directive to be unblocked and for the directive on gender-based violence to be supported. and that the conditionality mechanism be applied to uphold the rule of law and new tax rules be introduced to support the public investment needed to boost the green transition and the digital transition.
in writing. emmanuel macron outlined the main objectives of the presidency, emphasising the defence of the rule of law and democratic principles, as well as the legislative dossiers aimed at improving the quality of employment, ensuring decent wages, reducing the gender pay gap, giving rights to workers on digital platforms, combating discrimination and ensuring gender balance in boards of directors. she also proposed including the right to abortion in the eu charter of fundamental rights and prioritising political action on climate, digital and security challenges. the socialists insist on the importance of completing important outstanding reforms such as the establishment of minimum wages throughout the eu, the regulation of the working conditions of workers on the platforms, the creation of a living wage or the launch of the social climate fund. we also call for the anti-discrimination directive to be unblocked and for the directive on gender-based violence to be supported. and that the conditionality mechanism be applied to uphold the rule of law and new tax rules be introduced to support the public investment needed to boost the green transition and the digital transition.
in writing. emmanuel macron outlined the main objectives of the presidency, emphasising the defence of the rule of law and democratic principles, as well as the legislative dossiers aimed at improving the quality of employment, ensuring decent wages, reducing the gender pay gap, giving rights to workers on digital platforms, combating discrimination and ensuring gender balance in boards of directors. she also proposed including the right to abortion in the eu charter of fundamental rights and prioritising political action on climate, digital and security challenges. the socialists insist on the importance of completing important outstanding reforms such as the establishment of minimum wages throughout the eu, the regulation of the working conditions of workers on the platforms, the creation of a living wage or the launch of the social climate fund. we also call for the anti-discrimination directive to be unblocked and for the directive on gender-based violence to be supported. and that the conditionality mechanism be applied to uphold the rule of law and new tax rules be introduced to support the public investment needed to boost the green transition and the digital transition.
mr president, vice-president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague christel schaldemose and her team on their hard work over the last few months. we all have to be aware that it has not been easy to try to advance democratic control of the digital sphere with clear rules that put the common good before the interests of the big platforms. we are facing very complex legislation that will undoubtedly mark a before and after, helping to redefine the relationship between citizens and the digital realm, contributing to democratizing the internet and possibly establishing global standards. as shadow rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to highlight the work of the teams involved and the cooperation in these months of intense work. the first goal we pursued was to ensure that the digital sphere was a safe place, regardless of the size of the platform. during these months of negotiation, we have managed to strengthen the obligations for very large platforms and we have facilitated access to data for researchers, which was very important for us, as well as for non-profit organizations and agencies. we have also succeeded in increasing interoperability and data portability measures to counter the dominant position of the large platforms. in addition, we have worked to achieve greater transparency across all online platforms, both in digital advertising, as well as greater protection for minors, and recommendation systems. although there's still a long way to go. i'd like to point out that this week three democratic congressmen introduced legislation to ban the use of personal data for targeted advertising in the united states. another proof that this is a much-needed debate and work that we still need to move forward to take back control over our data and our privacy. we believe that the digital services act is a first step in the right direction that will contribute to making digital services safer, helping to protect the rights of citizens, our minors, and also to improve our democracy. we socialists will continue to work to make the digital environment a fairer space with greater democratic control of our data.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs christel schaldemose, on a good text, a very good text, which will advance the rights and security of citizens. and i think it is a good thing that the european parliament is always so strongly committed to citizens. yes, it's a good one. but there are a few amendments which i also think are good. i would simply ask my colleagues to look again very carefully at whether we should not decide to ban personalised advertising. because what is personalized advertising? personalized advertising is about building a profile, collecting data about people, making sure that their preferences are brought together on the web, across many, many channels. and i think that's not good, because that's the beginning of manipulation, and we don't want manipulation. and that is why i would like to see us actually pass these amendments which are there to ban personalised advertising. i am also very surprised at these amendments which come from the epp and which seek to bring back the ban on dark patterns. it's not responsible. that's one of the great achievements. that can't happen either. mr president, i would like to say a few more seconds to say goodbye. it is my last speech here in this european parliament. at the end of this month i will be leaving office - a post i have been privileged to hold for 28 years. it's a great thing. i've always loved doing it. i could have imagined doing this for another 28 years. but eventually, you have to make room for younger people. and i think it's a good thing that it is. it is good that this is so, and i hope that this european parliament will continue to work for the citizens, for the people, for democracy and for the development of this european idea. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the union. and thank you, mr president, for giving me the opportunity to have this extra minute. (applause from the centre)
mrs gebhardt, you can tell by the reaction of the house that the good wishes are with you. you live in the same corner of germany as i do. i don't know if you're moving out, but i think you're staying. i hope we'll meet again in the future. we do volunteer work together, but that may not necessarily be part of this. i wish you all the best and good health. i know that europe is something that is close to your heart and that you can still do a lot for europe, even beyond this house. i think you are welcome to your group, but you are also welcome to others if you come back.
mr president, allow me to congratulate you, executive vice-president vestager, commissioner breton, on the great effort and the great work you have done to put an end to abuses in digital markets. when we passed the digital markets act not long ago, we guaranteed competition in these markets and today, with the digital services act, we are creating a safe space for consumers, also guaranteeing the fundamental rights of our citizens. but let us not be mistaken: the european union is a leader in legal standards, it is true, but we are still behind in digital transformation; only 3% of the main platforms, 3%, madam executive vice-president, commissioner, are european. european companies are less innovative and less able to grow, what can we do? two things are missing. firstly, we invest little in innovation: the european union has spent almost 1% less of gdp than the united states over the last decade, and it is impossible to maintain the lead when less is invested in research and development; china has just reached our investment levels. and the second thing -- and this is the most important thing -- is that we don't have a competitive university system: we can't be the best at innovation if the best universities are in the united states and in asia, and that's what's happening now. our work to adapt the european union to the digital age has therefore only just begun: it is a good start with these two laws, but we still have a lot of work to do.
mr president, the voracity of the commission and parliament knows no bounds. today we are being given a so-called "digital services act", but the european union does not pass laws. even in the name of standards they want to usurp the competence of the member states. we're talking about a standard that recognizes putting across europe its verification agencies, those censorship bodies that look more like soviet pravda than a europe of freedoms; private companies censoring freedom of opinion, expression and thought with public money under the auspices of that european digital services board, another body they've created for their new normal: the one of agenda 2030, the one of davos, the one of the mega-billionaires kneeling before xi jinping, that soviet dictator turned spiritual leader of the service providers and the verification agencies of the service providers. more and more europeans are realizing what they want and saying no. a wave of freedom is rising across europe and they won't be there in time to stop it. we are longing for freedom and are not prepared to give it away, nor to give the power of sovereign states to their subsidized companies to tell us what we can do or say. we will not allow them to cancel freedom and civilization.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague, mrs christel schaldemose, on the enormous work she has done during these months of negotiations. i know that these have been difficult months in which she has had to reach great agreements, and we are here today to adopt a text which i think we consider to be balanced. the digital services act can be an opportunity to change the digital world forever and to save our democracies. this is not my phrase; it was spoken by frances haugen, a former employee of facebook, when she testified at our european parliament headquarters in brussels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances is a very important one. but if there's something important about this law, it's that for the first time, consumers are in the spotlight when it comes to digital platforms, that we're putting obligations on big tech companies, and that, of course, we're establishing three basic principles that come together and that are the foundation of this law: security, transparency and accessibility. but above all i would like to highlight two important measures, two successes, of the european socialists in this act. the first of these is that for the first time any european citizen who wants to claim compensation because big tech companies have violated this law will be able to do so: that empowers us as consumers; secondly, a very important success also of the european socialists, that minors will be protected from targeted advertising. i think they're great breakthroughs. look, the world is watching us, let's live up to it.
author. mr president, some groups are again using this parliament not to improve people's lives but as an appendage to the united states: a weapon to implement its national security directive, which has, in no uncertain terms, targeted china and russia and is pushing forward a new version of the cold war; they do not seem to have digested that hong kong ceased to be a colony 25 years ago and became an integral part of the people's republic of china. the european union should not play the role of a troop for the united states in this war, but should build bridges of understanding; it should not be an agent of interference in china's internal affairs, but should respect its sovereignty and work in a spirit of cooperation for mutual benefit. the continuation of the present policy of confrontation, provocations, condemnations and sanctions would be harmful to the citizens of our states: both workers and businessmen are paying dearly, they are suffering in their flesh and in their pockets, this confrontation with a world economic power which is not filling the world with military bases or generating wars, but is establishing with other countries trade relations of development from which both sides benefit. this policy of subordination to the interests of the american government is causing our peoples to lose important economic opportunities, leaving us isolated from such important and integrative projects as the belt and road. i sincerely expect nothing from those who put their seats at the service of washington, but i do call on the european commission, the european council and commission vice-president borrell to reconsider the role that the european union should play in this scenario: whether it should remain subordinate to the dictates of the white house or whether, as i suggest, it should be committed to its own foreign policy based on peace, cooperation, mutual benefit, multilateralism, and respect for human rights and the sovereignty of peoples.
author. mr president, with this resolution agreed by the main groups, the european parliament is sending a clear message to the people and authorities of kazakhstan: a message of solidarity with kazakh society, which is facing a critical economic situation, aggravated by the pandemic, and a rise in prices in a political context of lack of freedoms and corruption that has lasted for decades, a combination of boredom and hopelessness that has resulted in the largest protests in the country's history. and a message from parliament condemning violence: the indiscriminate use of force by the security forces in the repression of protests, with president tokayev's unqualified call to shoot people in the street without warning, which will unfortunately accompany him throughout his political life, and also the violence of armed groups of suspicious origin who used the demonstrations to sow chaos and who were the excuse for precisely that brutal repression. it is difficult to know some details of what has happened and that is why it is important that there is an international investigation; i believe that surely the osce, as kazakhstan is a member of that organization, would be the most capable international agent. if this is indeed a clan war, then president tokayev has apparently emerged stronger, shedding the shadow of his predecessor, nazarbayev: it would be time to demonstrate this supposed reformist will by implementing a programme of rapid and deep democratic economic and political reforms. and the european union must be very demanding: 225 dead, 10 000 arrested and, in addition, the repression against human rights activists in a twist on that authoritarian situation. and this, with a huge lack of coherence: if the peaceful demonstrations were instrumentalised by armed groups with some political agenda, by terrorists, where are the terrorists? why are the human rights leaders who, theoretically, demonstrated peacefully arrested? it is time to impose sanctions on those responsible for these grave violations and it is time for our delegation to have excellent communication with civil society and to abandon that idea of silent diplomacy that we have followed in kazakhstan so far.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, (inaudible) price increases and which led to serious unrest throughout the country were crushed with relentless force and with a foreign intervention of russian forces. president tokayev called for shooting to kill against the protesters and russian forces also showed ruthlessness. so we don't really have the death toll and we certainly know that, not coincidentally, there are many opposition activists among them. we do not know whether these disturbances have been used as a means of waging internal family wars within the regime; what we do know is that on the one hand the opposition has been crushed and on the other hand we also know, we know very well, that the russians have arrived, that the russians have set a very important precedent of intervening in a foreign country to supposedly restore calm, as they did in the past under the soviet regime. in this sense, at the moment when we have the crisis in ukraine, it is really worrying that the european union has not existed, that borrell has not existed, once again, for the important issues.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, more than 90% of abortions performed in spain since 2010 have been diverted to private clinics, largely due to the misuse of conscientious objection. a few days ago, an ultra-catholic association placed advertisements in several spanish cities encouraging people to pray in front of abortion clinics, that is, making a public appeal to harass women who come to these centers to terminate their pregnancies. historically, medicine has overlooked many female ailments associated with our sexual activity and reproductive capacity, because studies were conducted by male scientists on male patients, extrapolating the findings to women without much regard for biological differences. these are just three examples of how our sexual and reproductive rights remain unprotected, and that lack of protection affects our health and our autonomy. and when they are guaranteed, they are often not accessible because of lack of public resources and sex education, or because some want to sanctify their lives at the expense of ruining ours. despite the fact that this parliament has said that restricting the right to abortion is a form of gender violence and a violation of the human rights of women and girls, anti-feminist and anti-election rhetoric is increasingly present in the european institutions. this week we heard roberta metsola commit herself to the majority positions of this house and emmanuel macron call for abortion to be included in the charter of fundamental rights of the union. i just hope these words turn into deeds. i would add: sexual and reproductive rights are human rights and not just health services. that is why they are the responsibility of the european union.
madam president, for too long we women have not been able to decide freely on political, cultural, economic or social issues that directly affect our lives; some even today still insist that we cannot decide about our bodies: we have seen this in recent years in poland or slovakia. to understand the importance of this debate, it is crucial to put some facts on the table: according to who, forty-seven thousand pregnant women die every year in unsafe abortions, and more than sixteen million teenage girls give birth mainly due to forced sex and unwanted pregnancies. that is why last september the european parliament adopted a report calling for the inclusion of gender-based violence in the list of european crimes, and the text, based on the case law of the european court of human rights, was very clear on the issue at hand today: the lack of access to legal and safe abortion is a form of gender-based violence. for all this, it is essential that we reiterate today in this institution, which represents the will of european citizens, that in this house fundamental rights are defended, and this includes, of course, our sexual and reproductive rights: they are our bodies and therefore we decide.
madam president, electing an epp chair that has a poor voting track record on sexual and reproductive health and rights and abortion rights is not a good sign, but it’s not something new. the epp group has rarely put forward candidates that have a decent track record on women’s rights. but the new thing is maybe that we are holding a welcome debate on it. maybe it is because our new president, ms metsola, is a woman and we, as feminists, want all women to fight the feminist battle with us. some of us in this house have fought tirelessly alongside activists outside the european parliament to make sure that this house stands up for women, for our rights to decide over our bodies, our right to our sexuality, to decide freely if and when we want to have children and the right to have access to abortion care. we have done that because denial of sexual and reproductive health and rights, including abortion care, is the ultimate oppression of women. and we have managed to make sure that the european parliament stands with women, and anyone representing this house must stand up for the positions that we have voted. so, let me recall those positions: ‘calls on the member states to ensure universal access to safe and legal abortion and respect for the right to freedom, privacy and the best attainable health care’. this is extra important to defend at a time when we see that conservative forces in poland, but also other countries, try to attack these rights. we will continue this fight and we will stand up for the position of the european parliament and we will insist that our new president, roberta metsola, stands with us in this fight.
president, in these times of international tension it is important to preserve the unity of europe, but the left, led by macron, wants to include abortion in the european fundamental rights, because an extension of fundamental rights means an extension of the powers of brussels. here in the european parliament we are clearly not in agreement. abortion laws are a national competence. the situation has grown so culturally, religiously and historically and has been enshrined in national legislation through a democratic process. the wide variations in legislation within the eu, with some countries allowing abortion up to 24 weeks and others banning it altogether, make it impossible to regulate this issue at a central level without accidents. the european legislation is the result of endless negotiations and compromises, and the outcome of such a process is uncertain. how will maltese and poles react to liberalisation, or dutch and swedes to restrictions on their right to abortion? does this matter really need to be dealt with at european level? what will be the reaction if a european, essentially arbitrary, norm is suddenly thrust down the throats of europeans on a subject so politically sensitive? let us be careful in our dealings with one another and cherish good internal relations. a divided europe will accomplish nothing.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my deepest condolences on the death of president sassoli, and at the same time i would like to congratulate mrs roberta metsola on her election and wish her the best of luck. while europe is suffering from yet another wave of contagion, the european parliament, on a proposal from the socialist group, is devoting the first debate of the year to abortion. as european citizens try to overcome the catastrophic consequences of this nightmare called a pandemic, president macron presented yesterday as his star proposal of his presidency the inclusion of abortion in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. what message are we conveying to the citizens? this parliament is committing a gross irresponsibility, confusing our priorities and failing to live up to the historic moment we are living in. abortion is not a priority, not a conquest, not a celebration. and, above all, abortion is not a right. abortion involves the loss of a life and therefore abortion is a failure not only for the woman but for all of us as a society. those who fill their mouths with feminist slogans, those who present themselves as defenders and spokesmen for women - as if women were a homogeneous and weak collective that we need to protect - those who, instead of rejoicing that the new president of parliament is a woman and trying to delegitimize her for defending life and motherhood, are the same ones who encourage women, at one of the most vulnerable moments of their lives, to choose the easy way out and then wash their hands and leave them to their fate. no, europe cannot bet on death. europe must always bet on life. europe must always protect the weakest, in this case the unborn.
madam president, commissioner, we know that health is the responsibility of the member states, but the union is playing an increasingly important role, as we have seen, in harmonizing the rules to combat covid. it is even working on the implementation of a european health union, but i wonder if it is also working on women's health, on our sexual and reproductive rights. and it is that in the face of this europe we are finding groups of religious or non-religious origin, groups of the extreme right or of the extreme right, which add obstacles to abortion in different countries and which have extraordinary funding. we also find government actions from poland to my own homeland, andalusia, where the conservative government is funding associations to harass women who decide to end a pregnancy. these are groups and governments that exploit sexual and reproductive health and rights in order to undermine human rights and the values of the union and democracy. that is why, yes, we socialists have indeed proposed this debate, we welcome the proposal made yesterday in this house by president macron to include abortion in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and we also hope that president metsola will defend the resolutions adopted in this house itself, including respect for sexual and reproductive rights, and that she will stand with women in this fight.
in writing. health, including sexual and reproductive rights, is considered a human right. in europe, some member states continue to prohibit or severely restrict abortion, leading to clandestine abortions or termination of unwanted pregnancies. religious groups and extreme right-wing groups and governments such as poland have been increasing pressure and obstacles to abortion in recent years in several countries, including spain. for socialists, gender equality and this right is a red line and a flag. we stand firm against the growing wave of groups that use sexual and reproductive health and rights to undermine the values of the union and democracy.
in writing. health, including sexual and reproductive rights, is considered a human right. in europe, some member states continue to prohibit or severely restrict abortion, leading to clandestine abortions or termination of unwanted pregnancies. religious groups and extreme right-wing groups and governments such as poland have been increasing pressure and obstacles to abortion in recent years in several countries, including spain. for socialists, gender equality and this right is a red line and a flag. we stand firm against the growing wave of groups that use sexual and reproductive health and rights to undermine the values of the union and democracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her introductory words. the report has shown overwhelming evidence that currently in europe we’re having systematic non-compliance of the regulation in most of the countries. we have a lack of controls. we have a lack of infringements. we have a lack of data exchange. we have non-enforcement of regulation (ec) no 1/2005. also, sorry to say, but up to now by the commission, there’s not a single infringement procedure that has been taken against a member state, even though there is overwhelming evidence and scandals as to what is happening on our roads and especially at sea. the regulation is outdated. it’s unclear in many parts. transport on ships especially is a black hole of lawlessness. well, on the report, the evidence was so overwhelming that we all found conclusions that we were all able to support, but now when it comes to the recommendations – more than 1.5 million animals are transported across the european union and they are also exported to third countries. i know that’s a good business for some, but it’s a business model where we’re importing millions of tonnes of fodder, of soy, of palm oil from abroad, stuffing it into animals in the european union, which we are then exporting to half of the world. and that agriculture model has led to the decrease of farmers in europe. it is putting we small and medium-sized farmers out of business. it is resulting in farmers closing their businesses. we small and medium-sized farmers stand for a different model – for local production, for high animal welfare, for production that is based on what our land can feed, and for local procurement and local slaughterhouses. and for this, eight hours of transport would be far enough. i call on ppe colleagues to consider that this is still the majority of farmers in the european union. it’s not the big industrial complex, it’s the small and medium-scale farmers. and, to the liberals, mr kelleher, i don’t know this video that you posted a few days ago. was it a paid advertisement for one specific calf-exporting company? or was it a lobby meeting that you have registered? i hope so, because it’s the transporters that have a problem, it’s not the farmers. and we should make sure that unweaned calves below five weeks are not transported in the european union because they are just not fit for transport. that’s what the experts say. join the coalition of the ones that care!
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! the union has one of the highest animal welfare standards in the world. we have regulations, but we lack effective implementation and enforcement. so there are a lot of problems. as far as transporting animals is concerned, i would like to draw attention to the transport of animals that are unfit for transportation, because this is also what happens in overloaded trucks, with no space above the animals' heads, no water and food, no proper ventilation, with animals being beaten with sticks and electrical rods, with many hours of suffering and stress. millions of animals make their final journey every day in absolutely appalling conditions. there's a way to fix this. i therefore believe that, first of all, we must define clearly the capacity of animals to be transported, increase controls in the area of existing regulations, use geolocation systems for transport so that the duration of the journey can be determined, ensure that the appropriate feeding systems are in place, ensure that the enclosures and the interior of the vehicles used for transporting animals are adapted to these animals, that the vehicles are equipped with cameras, that the level of ammonia, the air supply, the water supply are measured. so temperature sensors are also necessary. indeed, there is much we can do if we want to make the field-to-table strategy a reality. we should do everything we can to ensure that the slaughter of animals is done as close to the farms as possible. then we'll be able to reduce unnecessary emissions, shorten chains, and thereby eliminate unnecessary animal suffering. and the quality of meat from stress-free animals, as we all know, is much better and bigger.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health and welfare of the european union is not compromised. that's an average of four million animals a day. as i say this, a thousand animals are being loaded onto trucks to begin their days-long and harsh journey. after a year and a half of investigation, the committee of inquiry into animal transport has come to a clear and devastating conclusion. the rules designed to protect animals during transport are systematically violated, exposing animals to violent treatment with extreme heat or cold, insufficient water, food or rest. the countries are bending the rules to their own will and no one is doing anything about it. the member states do not, the commission does not. in short, europe is failing to meet its duty to care for animals throughout the entire transport, from the point of departure to the place of destination. and that is a great shame. we therefore need a review of the animal transport directive as soon as possible, a review which fortunately has already been promised by the commission. and better today than tomorrow, because until then, every day we send animals in horror transports on the road and the sea. unfortunately, the recommendations of the committee of inquiry do not justify the hard conclusions of the inquiry report. the small improvements do not really help animals in practice. we need a system change. we must take big steps and revise the legislation thoroughly. and even then there is a chance that the european parliament will vote today to weaken the recommendations even further, recommendations that are even weaker than the current legislation. commissioner, can you promise to work for species-specific legislation, for shorter transport times, for lowering the maximum temperature and for strict rules to protect vulnerable animals, such as pregnant and very young animals? and colleagues, you can make a difference today. with a lot of courage and a few clicks on the voting button you can make it clear that there must be an end to long-distance animal transport, you can make it clear that there must be an end to the export of animals, and you can make it clear that there must be an end to the transport of animals by sea.
i have to say, madam president, i have to go. i am not going to go into detail. if animals have to be transported - and you sometimes have to be transported - then they have the right to be transported properly. and i think that the european union has, we have no progressive legislation, and many of the images that we see in the press, unfortunately, about bad transport would not exist if the national and local authorities simply did their job and controlled animal transport better. animal transport is supposed to be controlled. it is necessary to have a uniform approach in europe. bad dumping should be detected, stopped and sanctioned. we cannot allow serious hauliers - and they are still the vast majority - to be put under increasing pressure because others are cheaper and work badly. this was also very clearly stated by many in the committee. and this good transport is also in the interest of the farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of dangerous goods is not affected by the accident. i think we have done a good job in this committee. i would like to thank the chairman of the anit committee and the rapporteurs for their work. we have found a compromise which, if implemented, will improve transport but will still make it possible, and which also takes into account the needs of farmers and transporters. we have the situation in europe where transport is also longer - on the outskirts of the european union, on islands where transport also has to take place on ships. and of course, we must try to prevent the transport of animals for slaughter by slaughtering as close to the place as possible. but let's be honest, it's not always possible. we have also destroyed some slaughterhouses through excessive regulations, and we must build new infrastructure here too. we have found a good compromise; i will support that compromise. i will support anything that restores the original compromise. and i will not support anything that will call that compromise into question.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to express my gratitude to the two rapporteurs, mr buda and my colleague, mrs isabel carvalhais: i think they have done an impressive, very difficult job over these eighteen months, and i want to support the rapporteurs' agreement, and to support the rapporteurs' agreement we have to vote on the two amendments which have been tabled by both of them; i say that to complete that agreement, which is a balanced agreement. livestock farming is essential for the economic development of many rural areas and regions in the european union, and the transport of live animals is a necessary activity for the livestock sector. the animals have to be moved to the slaughterhouse, and this is largely due to the organisation of the sector itself, which is adapted to the preferences and habits of meat consumption in the various member states. it is also very important to stress the importance of moving animals for genetic improvement. so it is important that we apply the current regulations, which are not being applied - and that is a big mistake and a flaw in the system - and it needs to be improved. the european commission has made an interesting announcement: improving maritime transport; it must be improved, but not banned, not at all: i think it is necessary and essential. i am not questioning animal welfare, i am in favour of improving animal welfare, but i also want the farmer to be able to have the best conditions so that his farm is competitive. and that is why i ask that the new rules, commissioner, be based on science, not ideology, and be adapted appropriately to the needs of each species. that is why prior scientific information is essential for the adaptation of the rules or their change, and that is what i want to ask the commission to do. and let us not forget to vote on the two amendments to complete the great political agreement of this house.
madam president, it has been a great honour for me to chair the first committee here dedicated exclusively to animal welfare. i would like to thank all members, advisors and experts for their hard work, and i call upon all members to vote for the most ambitious recommendations possible. here, time is a crucial concept. how much time will animals have to spend on trucks, on ships, on planes in the future, knowing that every extra hour leads to more suffering? time is also an important issue when it comes to the date of the revision of the rules because there is no time to waste. it is because of the pressure of concerned citizens that we had this committee, and they want to see a change now, or at least as soon as possible. if the revision is delayed, it will be nearly impossible to complete it before the elections in may 2024, and this will be a big disappointment for all those citizens. it’s the members of this term who are unequivocally the most qualified to work on this revision, having spent so much time analysing the issues of animal transport. so will the commission consider this important time issue and advance the date of the proposal to the first half of 2023 so that we can deliver a revision before the end of this mandate? time is running for millions of animals.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, congratulations, you have again touched on the truly important issues. all of europe is shaking with crises, gas prices, electricity prices, all commodities are going up because of the lobbyist anti-market green deal being held here. people are wondering how to keep their jobs, and the european parliament is vigorously defending and fighting for the rights of animals in transport. i am sure your constituents will be inspired by the importance of this debate and its value to european taxpayers. i am also sure that the producers will not be satisfied, the carriers will not be satisfied, that they will once again have to pay for some legislative nonsense lobbied through here, which is anti-market, which is new regulation and which makes them spend more and more money again. after you played the trucking game with empty environmental courses, tons of oil being burned environmentally to drive trucks up and down, now you're gonna make them overhaul their machines. it's the same for carriers, it's the same for manufacturers, again lobbying, again regulation, again interference in the free market, again killing off competition. congratulations, fellow officers, congratulations. all of mara's involved, i apologize to the translators, all of mara's involved, but it's important that you fight and fight for animal rights. by the way, these animals don't go on walks, they go to slaughterhouses because they're raised to be meat. but i know this is gonna open up another, even more insane topic. so, colleagues, once again, congratulations to you. a great day for democracy and for the european parliament, and don't be surprised, don't be surprised when they call this room "mickey mouse parliament" and wonder if they're watching "monty python".
madam president, commissioner, european farmers are suffering unprecedented harassment. radical activists and extremist politicians are trying to bring down the meat industry with all kinds of accusations. some have already started a campaign of total demonization of meat for its environmental impact, treating it as an ultra-polluting substance. others are automatically linking the consumption of meat products to cancer, as if it were tobacco. and there are those who want to criminalize cattle farmers as animal abusers - as torturers and murderers, i have come to hear - in order to shut down their farms. in spain, even a minister in the government has said that the meat they produce is of poor quality and from animals that have been mistreated, and inexplicably he has not resigned or been sacked. but this harassment has also reached the european parliament, and the left is now trying to impose new restrictions on them, restrictions which are not based on scientific criteria but on pure ideology or even on empty sentimentality. if many of these measures are adopted, such as the limitation of travel times or maximum temperatures, the viability of the sector in spain would be seriously jeopardised. but in the face of unfounded accusations, in the people's party we know that no one cares more about the welfare of animals than the farmers themselves, who have been working day and night for them for many generations. we in the pp are extremely proud of a sector which fully meets the highest quality standards and all community regulations, which is fundamental to boosting and creating employment in rural areas and which is the leading exporter in europe and a reference in the world. that's why, as always, we will continue to defend them. that is why the ppe will vote today in favour of spanish and european farmers.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union, which is a very important document. because yes, even though unemployment rates are already at pre-pandemic levels, job instability is still a huge slab that puts us at greater risk of poverty and social exclusion. in a year like 2022, the european year of youth, we must address all those young people without prospects for the future, because the success of europe will be the success of those who today have the greatest obstacles to emancipation, who unfortunately also have the face of young people. empowering young people means making youth policies a horizontal priority embedded in all union policies; it means guaranteeing their rights by creating quality jobs, ending temporariness by guaranteeing stable contracts, ensuring that the wages we receive are decent and open the door to decent and affordable housing, banning new forms of exploitation such as unpaid practices and preventing us from being discriminated against in minimum wages and incomes because we are only young, but above all making mental health a real priority too. let us not forget that we young people are the ones who believe most in the european project; therefore, europe must believe in us and guarantee us the opportunities we deserve.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is clear that the centrality of animal welfare, for example, in the 'from the farm to the table' strategy, is based on an ethical question, but not only. as long as animals are endowed with the capacity to suffer we have certain duties towards them, the most basic of which is not to torture them. that an animal is not a stone, jeremy bentham said more than two centuries ago. but animal abuse is also associated with pollution of water and land, the spread of disease, and backwardness and neglect of the countryside. so we're not just talking about animal welfare, but local farmers who are impoverished by unfair competition from big farms and people who are displaced by the waste they generate. the report on implementation which we are debating today is very condescending about the plundering of the agro-industry and very uncritical about its persistent violations of european rules. we want to support extensive and family farming, to establish a population in the area and to encourage rural development. without animal welfare there is no change in the production model, no change in the food system.
madam president, madam commissioner, today we are once again demonstrating in this report that farmers in the european union are living up to the highest animal welfare standards in the world and are still working day by day to improve them, because no one cares more about the welfare of animals than the farmers themselves, no matter how much the pet owners try to criminalise them. today, in particular, we are once again demonstrating that a competitive, modern, hightech and export-oriented livestock sector such as the european one is compatible with respect for animals. unfortunately, the radical left continues with its ideological blindness, trying to put new demands and unfulfillable requirements on our farmers. they are thereby seeking to make their work impossible and to bring the european meat sector to an end once and for all. in short, these are the same undocumented people who dare to claim that spanish meat comes from animals that have been mistreated, thus undermining the well-deserved reputation of our meat. the people's party will, as always, stand with the farmers and the spanish and european countryside.
madam president, once again we value the work of the ombudsman, of this very important european institution, in this case the year 2020, a very complicated year for everyone, at the height of the pandemic and with the european authorities taking important decisions: measures that, as everyone knows, had to be taken against the clock to respond to the impact of this huge pandemic. but the urgency of the measures cannot justify laxity or failure to comply with the strict controls and requirements we have set for ourselves in the public administrations and the european institutions. urgency is not incompatible with compliance with procedures, nor are procedures incompatible with transparency, especially in view of the large number of actions that the european commission and the member states have had to take. to deal with covid-19 it was necessary to be quick but maintain the rigor in the procedures. because we must be very careful of those who fall into the temptation of appealing to freedom as an excuse to hinder the work of transparency that certain institutions must have, but for which, above all, we must all and each of us watch and comply. i therefore want to reaffirm the important role played by the ombudsman's office in this highly significant year, which also coincides with the 25th anniversary of the institution. i want to emphasize the important role played by this great institution after 25 years, and that we must now, more than ever, demand the guarantee of transparency, which is in turn a guarantee of democracy and a guarantee of human rights. and i want to congratulate the ombudsman on the work she has done and also the rapporteurs on the work they have done on this annual evaluation report.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, this report makes very important calls and guidelines for an orderly acceleration of the deployment of marine renewable energy. it is an excellent document for achieving the goals of the package of measures objective 55 and specifically the directive on renewable energy sources that we are reviewing. the new marine installations can also be used to improve the interconnections of electricity islands such as the iberian peninsula. for this strategy to be beneficial for all, we must take account of the different specificities of the member states and strengthen collaboration. the north sea is not the same as the south atlantic ocean, so we need to take a disruptive leap to be leaders in technologies like floating platform technology. we have technical knowledge and it will be a great opportunity for our shipbuilding industry, like that of my country, galicia. the seas and oceans offer great energy resources, but the sea is not empty. renewable development must respect the paris agreement: it must not compromise the development of food too, we must make it compatible with fisheries. marine renewable energy must also respect the space of those who live in the sea.
madam president, the aromatic plants sector is very important in europe; it is not only beneficial and healthy, but it is also a sustainable crop because of its low water consumption and it contributes to the protection of the environment. however, in the context of the chemicals strategy and the european commission's review of the reach regulation, there are those who want to include lavender and lavandin, among others, in toxic chemicals. this decision would affect aromatic plant crops in spain, bulgaria, france, croatia and slovenia. and, especially in the case of essential oils, it would lack all logic and scientific rigor, since all the processing is natural. moreover, it ignores the impact that this decision may have on the supply chain and on the economic activity that is being bet on the line of defence of sustainable development. we therefore ask the european commission to give the laundry farmers and the associated industries a fair share and guarantees in this whole process and, above all, to give a fair answer for the continuation and future of the sector.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, if there is one disease that has affected us all at some point, it is cancer. so we can't look the other way, because if we do nothing we risk increasing the number of new cases by up to 21%. this committee has spent months delving into the study of cancer, and there are two fundamental principles: commitment to equality and commitment to science. as regards equality, as a socialist rapporteur i am proud that social justice is at the heart of this report as the guiding principle in the fight against cancer, knowing that there are up to 25% of inequalities across europe in terms of access to fair cancer treatment. because when cancer comes through the door of a family, it can't be unequal for those who have less. we must strengthen social justice and this report calls for it. we spent a year listening to experts talk about prevention, early detection, research, how to improve the fight against cancer. and the best cancer is the one you don't have, and that's why we've also worked on prevention. i mean, as far as lifestyle prevention is concerned, for example, as far as tobacco and alcohol are concerned, we can change parts of the report. but what never changes is science. and when this report is finished and when we finish this resolution, if somebody changes the science, the science will keep knocking on the door, because we are working on something very important which is the fight against cancer. we need to bring hope to the many families who are struggling today with this disease, to the healthcare professionals who need reinforcement after the pandemic, because we also know that there are many patients who have not been diagnosed. up to 100 million tests have been stopped during these months. we need to strengthen this fight against cancer and, as i say, give hope to families, those like javier, the son of some friends of mine, who is fighting leukemia right now. for them it's this hope, for them it's this struggle, let's do it together.
thank you, chairman, commissioner and colleagues. cancer is not a death sentence. that is the aim we have set in this special committee and i am glad that both the chairman of the committee supported it and the rapporteur has made an effort to ensure that the proposal which improves the commission's proposal actually addresses this issue. that is a question for today, not for tomorrow. it was not without reason that all my colleagues, the members of the committee and myself made dozens of suggestions. there were 1,700 proposals from members of parliament and i am very pleased that the rapporteur took them all into account, put the main points together and produced a really good document. but how the situation develops in europe will depend on how it is implemented by the commission, how we find the necessary resources and how it is implemented by the individual member states. today, this is certainly the problem in the best of the member states. and to say nothing of that, in those countries, particularly, let's say, in my country, in the eastern countries, the situation is even worse. for example, the price of medicines varies by up to 10 times. this report, this proposal, must solve this problem: medicines must be affordable for all europeans, and when it comes to medicines, it cannot be that people in one country can get treatment and in another country they cannot. the same goes for the right to be forgotten. this is the issue of the day and it is up to parliament, the commission and the member states to take the initiative. we need to stop discriminating against people who have had cancer, both in financial institutions and, of course, in employers. thank you. thank you. good luck with the implementation of this document.
madam president, madam rapporteur, mr alternative rapporteurs, it has been a pleasure to work as a team to present this european plan to fight cancer, which embodies the collaboration between sovereign member states in their health policies and allows us to share and promote progress. the fragility of the human being in the face of illness also shows us his dignity. we promote responsible, virtuous habits, not only for personal benefit, but also to contribute to a balanced society that values health and life. our culture, especially the mediterranean diet, is associated with a longer life. investing in research benefits us all. knowing the causes of cancer in depth will provide us with new opportunities for treatment or early detection that increase survival. life doesn't belong to us, but we can choose how to live it. all patients should be provided with palliative care to help them cope with suffering or pain at each stage of the disease, taking into account all aspects of the person: physical, psychological, spiritual and emotional. we know that the love and presence of loved ones is vital. also the more practical and material issues: the nutritional status of the patient, physical or cognitive rehabilitation or aesthetics are fundamental aspects of the treatment that must be available until recovery is achieved. the capacity of patients and their families to overcome their problems, the vocation of professionals and the anxiety of scientists to find solutions are all well deserving of the support of the european union with an action plan to combat cancer that should be at the service of people and not of ideological or political instruments.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, 1.3 million europeans die of cancer every year, and the number of people who die from cancer is increasing. of these, 6,000 are children. 100 million screening tests were delayed by covid. today, surviving cancer can still depend on where you live in europe. the european plan to fight cancer is a landmark, a paradigm shift that will end inequality, ensure equal access to the best treatments in the shortest possible time and prevent future pandemics from harming people with cancer again. this plan addresses prevention by, for example, making nutrition a basic service; with early diagnosis, we improve screening programs; with treatment, we promote joint purchases, as we have done with covid vaccines; and with social and economic support to patients and families, the right to be forgotten, so that no one is discriminated against for having had cancer. and finally, the leadership in research and innovation made in europe. i am proud of this plan and i support it almost entirely. alcohol abuse is one of the health risks and we must fight it firmly. but we do not equate the harmful use of alcohol with the moderate consumption of wine. because the mediterranean diet, an intangible cultural heritage of humanity, is a valuable european cultural heritage that provides us with a healthy diet that includes this moderate consumption. that is why in our amendments, which i ask you to support, we advocate a clear distinction between 'moderate' and 'abusive' consumption, as the european commission put it. let us therefore work together to promote this plan to beat cancer and give hope to each and every european.
madam president, today i would like to address all those who are fighting cancer every day, and their families, who support them and suffer the ravages of this disease as their own. the message today is clear: this parliament will stand up for you. the report that is being adopted today is not a declaration of intent, it is a project with concrete measures to pool resources in research and to be able to deal, for example, with rare cancers, paediatric cancers or those with the most difficult cure. it is a plan for member states to invest in prevention, screening and better care. direct support to health systems, to our professionals. and there is no room for inequality here, just for the highest quality of care regardless of borders: that a patient from poland, romania, france or spain has the same chances of overcoming the disease. i say to all of you that the fight against cancer will continue to be the parliament's top priority. let there be no doubt in your minds. thank you very much, my dear veronique, for your involvement.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the summit between europe and the african union is being held two years late and with new and permanent challenges. the roadmap for the relationship must reflect, on the one hand, enhanced health cooperation beyond covax, real investment and the release of patents to ensure access to vaccines worldwide, including a continent with 1.2 billion people, 16% of the world's population. this helps us to understand the absolute need to make cooperation, fair and sustainable development, together with the climate issue, the backbone of relations between the european union and africa. the european union must stop using the lives of millions of migrants as a bargaining chip. it must go to the root of injustice, to the consequences of foreign policy, and not be reduced to defending the interests of european companies in africa, to plundering resources or to military interventions. there are many opportunities that one continent and another can offer, but it is necessary that strategic and determined vision that has as a roadmap the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda.
madam president, mr high representative, we agree that the summit raises many expectations and that it is a unique opportunity to lay the foundations for a renewed and equal partnership between the european union and the african union. the visit of the president and several commissioners to senegal is a good sign, but africa is a very diverse continent with very different characteristics. we need to move from narrative to facts, because others, with very different interests, like china or russia, are already doing that. climate migration is a reality and we must therefore move forward in the international protection of climate refugees and displaced persons. the key for the socialists is not to link development cooperation policy to migration policy. we cannot make aid conditional on the countries receiving the returnees. the liberalization of patents to allow the generation of vaccines in africa is also key. we do need to build together with the ngos working on the ground, as local agents, a real gender agenda that includes women's sexual and reproductive rights. i want to remind you that sexual and reproductive rights are a sustainable development goal included in the 2030 agenda. we must be firm in eradicating female genital mutilation: it is not a tradition. we have political instruments, we have financial instruments, such as the icfi, team europe, the global gateway, the post-cotonou agreement, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly... it's time to change the narrative, but, fundamentally, it's time to go with the facts. africa is waiting for us...
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr high representative, in the face of the global challenges we are facing, it is essential that an international actor of the european union's stature contribute to a foreign policy in an autonomous, strategic and responsible way, leaving behind the dictates from across the atlantic against the security of europeans. after the events of the past few weeks in ukraine, can anyone say that we europeans are any closer to a secure environment? europe needs its own external action strategy that is not only up to the challenges of the moment, but that prioritises the well-being of its people, the sustainability of the planet, social justice, cooperation and gender equality. a european union based on international law, promoting peace, disarmament, the abolition of nuclear weapons, fair development, fighting tax evasion and the dismantling of the welfare state. europeans will feel safer when their governments stop filling their borders with weapons, when it is recognised that the real threats are precisely the obstacles to access to affordable energy. a europe with more democracy, transparency, rights and justice, committed to diplomacy and leading effective multilateralism and working unabashedly for fairer global economic governance. that's the best security policy possible.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, we always welcome the fact that this parliament is discussing human rights. but you will agree with me that today is not the best day to do so, after the man responsible for a brutal repression against his people has stepped in from this podium, the man responsible for the murder of hundreds of colombian social leaders, of hundreds of signatories to the peace agreements. yes, as commander chavez said, it smells like sulfur in here. the duke can be blamed for many things, but not that he is breaking one of his election promises: tearing up the peace agreements. we have tried on countless occasions to get this parliament to debate the constant murders in colombia, the repression of young people who have taken part in the national strike, the more than 800 missing persons whose bodies are being found floating in pieces in the river, or the women raped in police stations. we wanted to talk here about the links between the army, the police, the paramilitaries and the narcos under the aegis of the narco-president duque and the uribismo, but that has not been possible because the right wing of this parliament acts as its shield. now they want us to believe that they care about human rights, when this morning they were part of an election act of a president with blood on their hands. your presence here has been a humiliation to this house. we will continue to defend peace agreements and human rights and work tirelessly to make criminals pay for their guilt.
madam president, mr borrell, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the colleagues who have worked on the dossier, because it seems to me that it once again reinforces an already classic position of this parliament, and that is precisely what i wanted to talk to you about, because there seems to be a perverse division of roles between the institutions of the union. a perverse distribution of roles which seems to reserve almost exclusively to parliament the defence of human rights in the world. the council, on the other hand, often considers itself completely unaffected by this approach and sometimes subscribes to a hard realpolitik in which this type of human rights issue is annoying. one example: the offer of a positive agenda to turkey (october 2020), without any reference to the human rights situation in that country. it is true that mr. borrell then corrected the matter in march 2021. and although it is not so far removed from parliament's position, the commission also sometimes seems to leave the role of denouncing human rights to parliament. some of commissioner várhelyi's failings in relations with israel or the palestinians are a good example. some embassies, mr borrell, whose model of economic diplomacy is forgetting the human rights agenda. i would like to say that the defence of our values and principles is a constitutional task of the union. the union. and therefore of all its institutions. it is not the exclusive task of this parliament. we are already running some risks in this parliament, as mr pineda has said. this parliament is only concerned with some human rights agenda. the right of parliament to prevent other matters from being discussed. another risk? the location in the plenary of the human rights emergencies at the end of wednesday night. we've corrected it this time. i hope it's a permanent fix. and finally, madam president, thank you: the very status of the subcommittee on human rights, which should be a full-fledged committee. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, corruption affects nearly all aspects of our society. it undermines the respect of human rights, the rule of law, democracy and growth. it represents the opposite of what we stand for as europeans. and it has a cost. the cost of corruption is immense. it is estimated from 2—5% of global gdp. corruption represents a structural obstacle to the full enjoyment and respect of human rights. let us think, for example, the right to health. with the covid pandemic straining all our resources and our healthcare systems, corrupt practices may divert crucial resources from hospitals and healthcare professionals, but also corruption affects disproportionately vulnerable groups and persons. for us in the european union, the fight against corruption is synonymous to the model of society we represent, and your report rightfully refers to the link between internal and external coherence, which is indeed crucial for the credibility of our action. within the eu, the commission is systematically monitoring anti—corruption measures in all member states within the framework of the rule-of-law mechanism and the prevention of corruption is also key in the post—pandemic recovery and resilience plans of our member states. our european public prosecutor’s office can investigate and prosecute all perpetrators of criminal offences affecting the budget of the european union, and they know that. at the global level, the union is a party to the un convention against corruption (uncac) and supports actively its universalisation. it is also one of the conventions that gsp+ beneficiary countries need to ratify and effectively implement. the fight against corruption and the protection of human rights are cross—cutting and mutually reinforcing elements in our external action. the eu action plan on human rights and democracy 2024 includes concrete anti—corruption actions, which we are also implementing on the ground. a few examples, an eu/council of europe horizontal facility ii, we contribute to the order of eur 35 million to increase compliance of enlargement countries with european standards and eu acquis, including in the areas of rule of law and fight against corruption. and, additionally, our human rights dialogues are opportunities to discuss issues related to corruption and its negative impact on the universal respect of human rights. eu anti—corruption support to third countries follows a holistic and human—rights—based approach, with a view to tackling links between corruption, human rights and the improvement of transparency, the fighting against impunity, the strengthening of the anti—corruption agencies and the support of the investigative capacity and justice reform, as well as international judicial cooperation. just to give you an example of this multi—layered approach, only in nigeria we are actively involved in a project of eur 25 million to promote the rule of law and fight corruption. we are now engaged in a safe and enabling environment for civil society that has a crucial role to play as an actor against corruption. we protect whistleblowers and provide support to national human rights institutions, human rights defenders and journalists at risk. they are all our valuable allies in exposing corruption and corporate abuse. honourable members, this is a fight in which europe has a lead and this is a fight that europe is determined to win.
before we continue the debate, i now open the second round of voting today. we shall vote on the items on the agenda. the voting is open from 8 to 9.15 p.m. the usual voting procedure is used. all votes shall be cast by name. i declare the second round of voting open. the results of the second round of voting will be announced tomorrow at 9 a.m.
we shall now continue our debate on the report by mrs katalin cseh (a9-0012/2022).
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr high representative, the report we are debating today makes it abundantly clear that corruption is a threat to democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the european union must set an example to the international community by combating this scourge at all levels. first, at the internal level. it is therefore necessary to promote the harmonisation of rules at european level and to strengthen the instruments we already have in place to combat corruption, to promote cooperation between the union, the member states and third countries, especially in the judicial and police field, and to allow the exchange of information in order to bring criminals to justice and to compensate victims. the scope of this lacra is transversal and universal. corruption includes bribery, illicit money flows, asset laundering, influence peddling, drugs and a long list of other crimes. foreign interference in democratic processes and the murders of journalists, judges and members of civil society are the strategies for silencing the denunciations of these crimes. combating this threat on an international level is no easy task. the rise of authoritarianism and the disappearance of democracies provide fertile ground for the spread of this poisonous activity. it is imperative to amend the current eu sanctions regime as soon as possible, extending its scope to include all acts of corruption and creating a new regime to sanction them. let us say no to corruption, sending a strong message to the council and the high representative. it is essential that the vote tomorrow be in favour of this report.
mr president, commissioner, this directive establishes the strictest legal framework in the world for the safety of toys. europe, once again, is leading the way in regulatory standards, in this case to protect our children. it shows that our standards are a guarantee to ensure that our children can play in complete safety and that our producers comply with them. the problem is that we have today many operators who continue to introduce dangerous and counterfeit toys into our internal market. third countries, like china, which do not meet our standards when they export their toys to europe. and it is not just unfair competition practices that affect and can stifle a key sector, as, for example, in the valencian community in spain, but also directly affect the safety of our minors. so these irresponsible practices put our children and our producers at risk. the revision of the framework requires addressing these problems and requires more market surveillance, more customs controls, more traceability and more resources to ensure effective compliance with our directives. because protecting children is about ensuring the safety of toys, but it's also about protecting our borders. and that's what we should do, too.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mr brando benifei on this report. it is a very important report because it deals with issues of vital importance to the european union, such as security and the single market, and the children of the european union. if we look at the data, in recent years the european union's hazardous product alert system has shown that out of every 100 dangerous products, 27 are toys. so it is an important issue. in addition, if you look at the consumption habits we have in the european union, we are increasingly buying online, which means that we have to put a very important focus on protecting toys in online markets. and also a fundamental issue: most of the toy stores and shops where this type of product is sold in real life are at a huge disadvantage to the big platforms where these products are sold. we must fight counterfeiting, we must ensure and guarantee to every child in the european union that when they have a toy at christmas, or when they have a toy in their home, any day of the year, it is a safe toy and complies with european union legislation. so this report and this amendment to the directive are very important for the european union.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to express my support and satisfaction with the way the proposed material looks. we have supported the rapporteur's initiative in principle and we are pleased that a compromise has been reached which we can vote on, as it was adopted by the juri committee. i would like to say in general that it is perhaps a bit unfortunate that such crucial material is being discussed at the end of the day, because it is indeed an extremely important and important matter. as the rapporteur has said, the non-profit sector, non-profit organisations and civil society in the european union will be given their own legal framework, which will allow them to form civil society organisations with a cross-border character. it is therefore a major boost and support for civil society from the european union and will certainly also contribute to better financing of this extremely important sector of society, which is important for any healthy and free society. i now want to express my legal satisfaction at the compromise that has finally been reached, because the debate has also been about the extent of european regulation, what a possible european office for crossborder associations should look like, and i am glad that in the end there is a compromise between, say, the right and the left represented here on the european parliament's soil. this means that the office will intervene in the very creation and registration of such a civil society association only if it is not registered at national level. i think it's a sensible and correct approach to leave the first stage of adjustment to the nation states. it is only when there is no national action - often for some reason, even bullying - that we perceive that there are problems with the non-profit sector in some countries, and that is when this european authority comes into play. so we support the motion and thank the rapporteur again for a job well done. thank you, sir.
i would like to thank mr lagodinsky in particular for his persistence, because to take a dossier that has been stuck since the 1980s, to put it on track, to resuscitate it and to achieve the political agreements necessary to put it back on the table of the commission and the council seems to me to be of great value. he said this is the right time. in spain we say "better late than never". because the problems this dossier is trying to fix were obvious back in the '80s. it was already known that this forest of different regulations between countries made it very difficult for these associations to function in europe in terms of taxation, registration, registration and control. so let's stop talking so much about civil society and do what civil society needs. mr vice-president, the european union has been very quick to regulate european political parties. we were in a hurry because it was our dossier, but we have not succeeded with the foundations and we have not succeeded with societies of this type. so let us make those reservations and shyness that you expressed resolve themselves. european civil society is not going to wait another thirty-five years for its needs to be met by this parliament. and please do not hide behind subsidiarity. no national regulation can replace a european statute. so no one can consider that such european legislation violates subsidiarity.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, sergey lagodinsky, for his very progressive approach. indeed, the report rightfully stresses the essential role of civil society, which contributes to a number of crucial areas – promoting democracy, protection of minorities, healthcare and social services – while understanding that their cross—border work and financial efforts have increased considerably. however, despite the important roles ngos play in public life, there is as yet no harmonised pan-european legislative framework to allow all those who want to engage and organise themselves for non—profit activities, to do so cross—border. as a result, in the absence of union legislation, the cross—border work of the non-profit sector is characterised by legal uncertainty, discrepancies, different practices and hurdles at national level. the report provides a long—needed answer to the situation by proposing, on the one hand, a clear regulatory framework for european associations and, on the other, a set of common minimum standards for non—profit organisations in the union. mr commissioner, it is a good basis so it’s time to act!
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lagodinsky report seeks to give non-profit-making non-governmental organisations a european legal status. to this end, it proposes, first, to grant them european association status by regulation and, second, to set common minimum standards for them by a directive. this concern is guided by optimism that borders on naivete. the report makes ngos the paragons of all virtues and even claims that they are a school of democracy. it is a misunderstanding of the real role of some of the most influential ngos, including that of george soros, who seeks to destabilise our old european nations by opening the door to the flood of migration. it is also to turn a blind eye to the damning conclusions of the european court of auditors' report no 35/2018, which denounces the opacity of the use by ngos of european union grants. this denunciation is all the more worrying as we are not talking about small sums, but about €11.3 billion, which was generously given to them over four years by the european union. the lagodinsky report seeks to introduce an embryonic control on their accounts, but it is far too light a control to restore confidence. for these reasons i am opposed to this report.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr rapporteur, congratulations on your work. but i strongly disagree with the conclusions you're drawing. because, colleagues, these are not the ngos you are talking about, but these are small groups of people who like you and who have chosen you and who are doing propaganda. these ngos actually work for the benefit of only the individuals of the so-called "left liberal marxist idea" that aims to change our societies. and for that reason i cannot accept and i will never agree that european taxpayers' money should be used to pay people who are appointed in ngos to conduct policy. these people, whom you represent, honourable members, choose to be ngos in one respect, independent media in another, political parties in a third, and think tanks in a fourth, but still independent. that's how we have the famous judicial reform, which is in the hands of three, four, five oligarchs, known (so to speak) with good looks, pink cheeks. these people are trying to change our society, and you want us to pay for it. it's not gonna work. congratulations, mr lagodinski, you have done your job. but we don't agree with this work and these conclusions, we don't want to pay to destroy our traditional family values. we do not want to pay to destroy this europe that we believe in so that we can please one, another, third or fifth oligarch that you have liked and think that because it is very pink, it is very big and very beautiful. no, thank you.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr rapporteur, the european parliament has for years called for the creation of a statute at european level for associations and ngos in order to ensure mutual recognition between member states and to facilitate the cross-border work of such associations. today there are still great difficulties in recognising the activities of international associations, and this is particularly serious in crossborder regions, such as my own country, euskal herria. as the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs points out, it is in crossborder regions and in the euroregions that associations and organisations play a very important role in facilitating work on the interests of civil society. and, more and more, associations and ngos are defending the public interest and are facing different economic, social or environmental challenges, among others, and are operating across borders in the midst of natural communities. but, despite this, they continue to face legal and tax obstacles. i would also like to draw attention to the announced reform of the schengen area, because it can be an obstacle to cross-border community life and specifically to the real functioning of the associations working on both sides of the border.
mr president, one in five europeans collaborates with a non-governmental organisation, with a civil society organisation, and approximately 2% of the budget of the european institutions is managed through this type of partnership which helps in matters such as humanitarian aid, international cooperation, youth, education, culture and even environmental protection. that is what we are talking about and what we are talking about is finally creating a statute that gives them security; that allows them to work without obstacles, without problems; that they have mutual recognition and that all the member states can recognise them. so apart from any kind of conspiracy theories or delusions that we may hear from time to time, what we are doing is giving something basic to people who project the best of ourselves, the best of the european union and who also represent the best of what the european union claims to stand for and which i think we also stand for with some success in an increasingly complicated world. finally, mr schinas, commissioner, do not look for excuses and be on the same level as civil society in europe.
mr president, we have come very close to the two major nuclear powers entering into open conflict using europe as their game board. and i speak in the past because the united states and its military arm, nato, have run out of arguments, but they have never really needed them to start their wars. the united states continues to wage wars far from its territory and many european governments have acted irresponsibly, adding fuel to the fire. nato is using europe, and especially the borders with russia, as a huge military base in the service of commercial, military and geostrategic interests that are not those of europe. mr borrell, we have many differences, but that does not prevent me from considering you a man of peace who seeks to resolve conflicts by political means. i ask you not to allow the european union to become a troop, a military base, a game board in the service of this decaying empire which is endangering the very existence of the planet.
madam president, a lot has been said already, and for me it’s very clear: if we want to become a real geopolitical player, we need to get our act together by making ourselves less reliant on the russian gas supply, by building a shield against russian attacks and, most importantly, by setting up a real european defence union. we have to believe in the power of europe. but what really worries me, mr borrell, is that putin does not want to speak to europe. he simply refused, and we allowed him to. last week, president macron was in moscow and yesterday, chancellor scholz was in moscow, but actually it should have been europe at that long table. we would be much stronger if we talked to russia – if you talked to russia, mr borrell, on behalf of europe – with one voice, and i’m sure, mr borrell, you agree with that. that is why i have three questions, mr borrell. have you been in contact with the leadership of germany and france? can you confirm they have presented putin with a common eu front? and can you confirm they have not given mr putin an inch?
thank you, chairman, colleagues. the kremlin continues to foment military conflicts, commit politically motivated assassinations, destroy the remnants of democracy in its own country, and ultimately take pressure measures by manipulating gas prices and generating huge export profits in the shadow of sanctions. putin wants to decide what future sovereign countries should choose. i want to ask you directly: why is that? because europe is still trying to survive because it's dependent on russian resources. when will europe really be able to assert its strategic autonomy and be able to fight the eu's hostile regimes with effective decisions rather than words? long live the ukraine.
madam president, weakness breeds monsters and european weakness, now added to the chaos and weakness of the current us government, has invited putin to show his worst face. we already had the first chapter of this drama under obama, when he let his red lines in syria be trampled and we had, as a direct consequence, crimea. weakness, as i say, produces monsters and putin must be stopped where he is. his threat is not to ukraine alone. it is a threat to all of europe and, above all, to all of eastern europe: poland, lithuania, the whole of the baltic, bulgaria and romania. we have to tell putin that he cannot threaten countries that are internationally recognized, one of which he is occupying at the moment. and of course it cannot play into the hands of europe, like nord stream, which must be stopped immediately.
madam president, we do not yet know for certain what will happen in ukraine in the next few hours. but one thing is clear: we europeans have awakened from a 30-year lethargy, when we thought that a war in europe was simply impossible. and that possibility, unfortunately, is very real. the russian blackmail is not directed against ukraine or nato, it is directed against the european union and the principles and values it represents, principles which are also shared by our ukrainian partners and our american allies. and in that sense, these values that putin is opposing and, above all, those against which he has declared war for many, many years, also have their enemies in the european union itself. yesterday, the communist podemos members of the spanish government decided to vote against, not to support the economic aid that europe wants to give to ukraine. communism, a criminal ideology whitewashed in spain by some conniving people, but criminalized in europe for its bloody totalitarianism, is, precisely today, putin's greatest accomplice at a time when democracy needs it most. mr. borrell, thugs like putin are getting their face blown off. i understand that's his wish and he'll always have us by his side.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission and high representative, mr josep borrell, thank you not only for the report you have sent us, but also for the line you have followed with regard to russia for more than a year: a line of firmness, of clarity, always open to dialogue, but from a clearly uncomplexed position. in this sense, much has already been said in this debate about how we have used this dual track of deterrence and dialogue which, in view of the latest news, could be working, although it is not to be trusted. so i will not repeat anything else in that sense. what i would like to raise is how we can take advantage of this situation to further strengthen the process of european integration and transatlantic cooperation. clearly, we have strengthened our unity in the west in the face of this challenge. let us therefore use this opportunity to activate the provisions of article 42 of the treaty, by setting up the common defence system, and also to strengthen the transatlantic relationship by convening the summit with the united states and, why not, by adopting a new atlantic charter.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, the figures for youth unemployment in the european union are only a symptom of an underlying problem: for many young people the social elevator has ceased to function. they spend long years in school, only to find themselves in precarious, low-paying jobs and endlessly stuck in a loop of unpaid internships. in this sense, work for experience is not only a source of inequality - not everyone can afford this luxury - but it is also a violation of labour rights. in spain, 85% of those under 30 cannot be emancipated because, to date, experience does not pay the bills. and because precariousness makes it impossible to be independent or to think about the future. the solution is simple, comrades: if you work, you get paid. in this european year of youth we must say loud and clear that being young cannot continue to be synonymous with precariousness. let's be brave, because young people - as they should be - will settle for nothing less.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, the european union is certainly a better region today in many respects than it was thirty or forty years ago. we young people live in a reality that is richer than that of our parents, healthier, more globalized and more free. however, let us not allow this progress to lead us into deception. if we asked anyone under thirty or thirty-five to define their situation in one word, that word would probably be "precarity". in every aspect of his life. the european union cannot allow companies to exist on its territory which compete advantageously at the expense of its workers. it is our moral duty to defend stable employment contracts, decent wages and social protection. and you were asking for answers, weren't you? so, in this european year of youth, let us legislate to ban unpaid traineeships once and for all. let us take this european year of youth as an opportunity to implement concrete policies to ensure that young people have a present, because they are present, but also a future of dignity.
madam president, the european year of youth must be a success. we therefore stand with this demographic group which is calling for an end to labour exploitation through unpaid work experience, as has been said by so many honourable members. success also means giving this european year of youth a lasting legacy. that is why, together with 86 members of the european parliament from the main pro-european groups, we have proposed the launch of a european festival of youth, culture and ideas, as also called for by various youth organisations, which we would celebrate every year around 9 may, from 2023. we can also propose giving more importance, more space, more opportunity to the european youth parliament, for example by inviting it to hold a plenary session in this very hall of the european parliament in strasbourg during the year.
madam president, today’s court ruling is a victory for all europeans that care about the rule of law, and i am grateful that the ecj explicitly mentioned solidarity and the rule of law as values that define the very identity of the european union. if you don’t comply with these values, you cannot expect to simply continue to enjoy all the rights and benefits that come with eu membership. the eu must be able to defend those values, but being able to defend them is only the start. if you are not going to use the instruments at your disposal, the ability itself is useless. so our call to the commission is very clear today: use the regulation, defend the rule of law and do it without delay. at the same time, let’s not forget what the purpose of this regulation is: not to initiate interinstitutional quarrels between parliament and the commission, but to join forces in the defence of our fundamental european values. today showed again how important that is. let’s take the hungarian response by minister varga accusing the court of political decision-making and using the rule of law as a façade just because she didn’t like the result. straight from the autocrat’s playbook: you yourself bring a very poorly argued case before the court, if the court rules in your favour, you shout victory; if they rule against you, you question immediately the legitimacy of the court that you found legitimate enough in the first place to bring a case. and this constant undermining of the rule of law and of the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, both in words and actions, requires an effective response. theodore roosevelt once said: ‘in any moment of decision, the best thing you can do is the right thing, the next best thing is the wrong thing, and the worst thing you can do is nothing’. so i am glad president von der leyen today announced that the commission will act with determination. we expect to see that determination without delay.
madam president, the european union is not a self-service shop where you take what you like and put what you don't like on the plate. the european union is an institutional area with rules, and the most important rule of all is that this area is made up of democracies, full democracies, and full democracy does not attack the separation of powers, does not break the rule of law. a full democracy does not attack political opponents and establishes unequal conditions to compete in an election campaign. a full democracy does not attack freedoms and, above all, does not attack the rights of minorities. we are talking, in this case, about two countries that have repeatedly been going to the bottom and have crossed and crossed the red line that separates autocracies from democracies. and this can't go on. we will not allow it, not within the european union. commissioner, you have had the mechanism to act for a long time. the conditionality mechanism. they've been waiting for the court's decision. today they have it, today they have no excuse to wait any longer, to buy time, behind guidelines that have long been established and that simply have to be implemented. you are now at the moment when you have to exercise your responsibilities. and i say this because it's not about whether we're attacking one government or another, or whether we're attacking one country or another. quite the opposite. we are defending the rights of the citizens of poland and hungary who have the right to live in a democracy, in a full democracy. and they have the right because they are european citizens. and we europeans have the right to live in democracies. so act now and don't let any more time pass.
madam president, this is a very nice house. so the approach to the rule of law here in this house and in the european union is the least rule of law-oriented thing that has happened to me in my legal career so far, ladies and gentlemen. this argument, mr commissioner, that tax funds must go where they are needed, and we have heard this from mr korner, who has been particularly wrong about this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so what are you going to do to help the people of hungary? to the supposed goodwill of your government? so how hypocritical can you be, dear colleagues? and i think we need to talk about two dimensions here when it comes to this procedure. the first is a political dimension, the political dimension, which is called - and you know this as well as we all do - silencing a member state which is not politically compatible with you. and the second political dimension behind this is precisely this aid to humanity and, of course, the expansion of the european union's powers - ever more, an ever increasing union. the legal dimension is particularly important, and mr beck has already dealt with this in detail. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the only way to verify the rule of law and democracy is through the article 7 procedure. what are we going to do? the article 7 procedure, which would be the appropriate procedure under the treaties, is simply bypassed here by attempting to apply a different procedure. is that, in your opinion, the essence of the rule of law? the impression is growing that this is only a matter of values on the surface, because it is more a matter of putting a political and legal thumbscrew on things. and this procedure is also being used for the first time. there are not even guidelines on how to apply it. i now turn briefly to the commission's report, which says yes: the rule of law in poland and hungary. yes, what are the criteria according to which the rule of law has been assessed in this report? you can't see that anywhere. what sources have been used in the context of this report, where this is being checked? nowhere to be seen, which is completely opaque. and this account reminds me a little of the witch's hammer of the middle ages. whatever one may think of the state of the rule of law and democracy in the member states, this report is not in the least suitable for commenting on it. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover all the member states. is that what we want, colleagues?
madam president, seriously, ladies and gentlemen, can any of you tell me which principles of the rule of law are violated in hungary or poland and not in spain, germany or france? the right to life of the unborn, is it not europe? protecting the innocence of children and preventing sexual indoctrination in schools is not europe? to encourage one's own birthrate and to strengthen the spiritual bonds of the family or the nation, is that not europe? protecting europe's borders against the invasion of immigrants is not europe? the court's judgment we have heard today is another step in the discrediting of institutions which should be at the service of the states and not at the service of europe's suicide. some gentlemen living in luxembourg and earning 20 000 euros a month have decided that sovereign governments and parliaments can be coerced into following a perverse ideology: if you want to eat, vote as we tell you. why go outside the borders of europe to seek foreign interference? the fact that judicial independence or fundamental rights are raised only in relation to hungary and poland shows the obvious ideological bias. but i understand you: you're nervous. the elites in brussels are nervous about the wave of patriotism and dignity that is rising across europe and that will bring back dignity to these institutions here.
madam president, we are debating good news today. european justice supports not funding racist, lgbtq-phobic, sexist policies with public money, which curtail press freedom... and if anything should make sense of the european institutions it is the possibility that this should serve as a space for guaranteeing rights for working people. from here, the possibility of a dignified existence is assured. that is why the ecj ruling is a brake on a wild right wing that is determined to turn this house into a field of operations to roll back our rights. in his project, if you are poor, or gay, or female, or a worker, or a migrant, or an environmentalist or a trade unionist, you are out. for them, the vast majority of society is outside. let's not forget that! security, future and certainty will only be possible by extending and defending the rule of law. this sentence puts us on that horizon of progress. now it's time for the political battle to be up to speed.
commissioner, i hope you're awake, not like your colleague in the morning, sleeping through the alleged russian attack on ukraine. ladies and gentlemen, today's decision by the court is a disgrace. it's a disgrace because it has nothing to do with the law or the rule of law, and you know it. we're not talking about the rule of law here, we're talking about your hatred, your hatred of nation states, of the idea of a nation state and internal order. both poland and hungary have the right to regulate their internal order as they see fit. and you, by the way, know that perfectly well, but you perfectly well and constantly try to pin some guilt on them by supporting the minorities that you like. but you forget that your colleague, your "luncheon" trudeau, said that those who protest in canada were a tiny minority. so which minority is more important - the one in canada, the one in hungary or the one in poland? no, you are! hungary, poland and every nation state must put their internal order in order. that's the rule of law, not what you're trying to impose on us. it's not true, and you know it, but for you, it's a matter of survival. because it's your agenda, the agenda of these ngos that are trying to change, to destroy europe and to make it something else, something different. we will never agree to be dictated to by your agenda, we will never allow you to dictate how we behave, what we do and what we say. i'll tell you what, i know you're gonna be excited, but so be it. long live orban and fides, long live kaczynski and "law and justice", long live bulgaria and our national state, long live the europe of nations!
(following some reactions without a microphone to the previous speaker's speech) i ask you to maintain a respectful attitude towards your colleagues and this house. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to fight, fight outside, but i think this debate is a debate about the democratic nature of the institutions of the european union. we have core values. my family had experienced both communism and nazism, and all those regimes that took millions of lives in the 20th century had some right to do so. but a law that was corrupt, a law that was ugly, a law where human and democratic values were worthless. and the european parliament clearly does not want those times to return anywhere in the 27 countries. so this debate should really be about the general principles, because democracy and respect for the rule of law is something that is a universal value. this debate is not about us being left or right. this debate is about making us aware of why we're here and what we want to fight for. after all, the separation of executive, legislative and judicial power is a principle that every kid in high school understands. and i think that simply asking the commission to comply with that is simply a principle that we have. finally, let me express my regret that the president of the commission is not here. yes, johannes, we are happy to see you here and we are happy to discuss with you, but this debate, which is crucial for the european union, perhaps the most crucial at this time, should be the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen. thank you, sir.
madam president, what does it mean to be european? we are different in language and culture, but we share strong values: the rule of law and democracy are among them. the court of justice's judgment reaffirms once again that our union is built on solid foundations. this is our european identity. the polish and hungarian governments have tried everything; they have failed. we are on the side of the polish people, the hungarian people and all the citizens of the union, mr bellamy, yes, all the citizens of the union. the union is not a supermarket where we buy only what suits us best. we cannot play the european game when it comes to receiving european money and be nationalists when it comes to respecting our european values. so there is no invasion, i told my colleagues at ecr. let us now move on to the action, commissioner. don't hide behind the directions. the regulation has never been suspended; activate it immediately, because it's a democratic emergency.
before i give the floor to mr kuhnke for a minute, i should like to say that we were informed that mr dzhambazki would be giving the roman salute in the chamber. if this is true, of course, we will check what has happened, we will raise the matter and of course it will be subject to any sanctions. we'll check with the administration to see if this really happened. we have been informed and i think it is absolutely necessary to check why, and i want to reiterate this very firmly, fascist symbols and gestures are not allowed in this house in any way. so if this very serious thing has happened, sanctions will be decided, as this very, very serious behaviour deserves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago, during the debate on the recovery fund, i was among the first to denounce the european commission's intention to use citizens' money as a tool to blackmail states into aligning themselves with its ideological agenda. the abuse of power of which poland and hungary are now victims, has been put to the wall by the threat of a stop to european funds under the pretext of the violation of the rule of law. the eu is careful not to defend this principle, for example in italy, where for ten years governments have been imposed without popular consent, which decide the fate of the country by regularly bypassing parliament and reducing much of the media system to its own propaganda organ, and where a section of the judiciary works to neutralize, with round-the-clock investigations, those who try to oppose the political projects of their system of power, as the palamara scandal shows. but europe is silent on all this, proving what i have denounced from the beginning, namely that the rule of law, introduced as a value to safeguard democracy, has been subtly transformed into a weapon to hit anyone who dares to protect the peoples of europe from the work of economic, social and cultural destruction carried out by brussels.
madam president, the conditionality mechanism has a legal basis, it falls within the competence of the union and it is very clearly defined by the court. it's about protecting the budget, not sanctioning it. there must be a real link between the infringement and the impact on financial management. the measures must be proportionate. the application of the mechanism is subject to strict procedural requirements and subject to the control of the european court. we are not dealing with an arbitrary instrument, but with a framework of legal certainty for the institutions of the union which have to apply it, and for the member states, for all of them. what's the next move? the commission and, eventually, the council must now take responsibility. the court has done what it had to do. parliament has provided the legal instrument to do so. because, for all the debates we have, recurrent debates, sometimes redundant debates, parliament cannot and must not fill this vacuum, either from a legal or a political point of view. the situation 'article 7 and cross-compliance' is, at the moment, on the way to becoming unsustainable. it damages the credibility of the union, it damages the meaning of the legal instruments we have established and it damages trust and therefore the willingness of the states to cooperate in many areas. it is not for us to prejudge now what the commission has to propose and what the council has to decide in due course. it is time to insist, to demand that there be proposals and decisions, because at this moment the prudent thing is to act.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, let me start by putting some more facts on the table: according to the undp report, the proportion of women killed by extreme weather events over the last 20 years has increased by 60%, and 80% of those displaced by climate change-related causes since 2010 have indeed been women and girls. of course, yes, the climate crisis also has a gender bias. gender equality and climate change are two of the great challenges that can condition our future from a social and even existential point of view. and although we often treat these issues in isolation, they are closely related. the responses to these global challenges have to address the links between gender, climate and security, with a view, which, yes or yes, will have to be feminist and encompass the empowerment of every single woman on this planet.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, madam commissioner, tackling the climate crisis from an eco-feminist approach should be a priority at the next session of the un commission on the status of women. women are the most affected by the climate emergency for several reasons: they are the world's leading food producers, yet they own less land than men and, when they do, their farms are smaller; they have less access to water and basic rights such as housing and sanitation; they are poorer, because they spend more time in unpaid care and have worse working conditions; and in many parts of the world, they are prevented from accessing spaces of power and decision-making. paradoxically, however, it is women who are called upon to lead the ecological transition that we need, for their knowledge, for their learning and for the skills they have developed in caring for the commons and the knot of human relationships that is around them. women maintain the bonds between people, and between them and the land, they establish the population of the territory and ensure its conservation. they know that we depend on each other as much as on the material and energy resources that enable us to sustain life. the culture of care is that of women and it is the only one that guarantees our survival, because the environmental collapse we are experiencing is also that of the values that have caused it: domination, plunder and growth without limits. without women, there is no sustainable life on this planet. we learn from them.
mr president, commissioner, according to the united nations, women, girls and children are fourteen times more likely to die in a climate disaster than men, and this is not because, as has been said here, there are biological differences, but because women are still, or we are still, the primary caretakers of creatures, and that makes us more vulnerable. it's also because we have less access to resources, and that also explains why we make up 80 percent of the people displaced by climate change. so we need to include this feminist perspective to fight climate change and to make sure that the transitions we make are really just transitions and address, and not feed, not increase, inequalities. so we need to do a collective intelligence exercise for the planet and for the common good, by bringing more women into decision-making. socialist women and men propose constant work for just transitions, and our commitment, without a doubt, is for a progressive, sustainable model, which drives from equality and social justice a transformative climate action.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner, not just for his introduction, but also his good efforts in this area. but it’s a pity that the council isn’t here because i think we have to conclude that the commission is doing its homework, parliament is doing its homework, we are trying to actually eliminate the barriers for free travel for citizens, but it’s national policies and national governments that are unilaterally changing their rules every day and they are creating barriers. you said that we don’t want a one—size—fits—all. as a matter of fact, i think citizens are clamouring for a one—size—fits—all, at least when it comes to this. they want to travel easily and freely. there are people who have to cross borders because of their work. there are people who are living in border areas. we had the debate last time. if we are going to extend the duration of the regulation then i think we have to come back to the debate on more harmonisation, and i think member state governments also have to take their responsibility. the very least they should do is have some sort of common consultation and not each one for himself because you cannot explain it to people anymore. the virus doesn’t know nationalities, it doesn’t know borders and it doesn’t know passports. it only makes a difference between individuals and it doesn’t recognise where you’re coming from or where you were born. one last question to the commission is about enforcement because, quite frankly, we worked very hard last year to get this regulation in place, but i wonder about enforcement. we see that national member states are taking measures, and i wonder if the commission actually assesses whether those measures are in line with the agreement that we laid down in the regulation. i get the distinct impression that it’s not.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, on 1 july the so-called covid passport came into force, with the promise that it would only serve to facilitate travel between member states. the tourism industry was celebrating this decision that could save the summer season. but soon this instrument became a nightmare. in a nightmare because member states like spain, together with the commission, have used it to curtail the rights and freedoms of all those who chose not to be vaccinated or even of those who had been vaccinated, but have every right not to give that information to enter their workplace, find a job, go to school or go to university. and now, when countries like the united kingdom and denmark are lifting all restrictions, the commission is proposing that more doses be required to be able to use this certificate. and now there's no more cheating. we know we're not discussing a travel document. we're debating a document to impose compulsory vaccination. i therefore wish to inform you that our group, as we do in spain, will vote against any proposal to extend the duration of this instrument if the rights and freedoms which our compatriots are guaranteed by the national constitutions are not guaranteed. believe it or not, commissioner, you are not above freedom either.
mr president, commissioner, two years ago the member states of the european union started to introduce the first restrictive measures to contain the covid-19 virus. among them, travel restrictions, for the purpose of protecting the health and safety of all. from the outset, in parliament's working party on tourism, we have called for uniform and binding measures throughout the union to ensure safe travel. we have brought this matter back to the house from time to time and have asked the commission for its support and encouragement. last autumn, when we thought the situation was more or less under control, the new omicron variant appeared, creating uncertainty again, flight cancellations and other means of transport, accommodation reservations, as well as stress on european passengers, businesses and workers in the tourism sector. we cannot anticipate the emergence and the effect of new variants, but we can establish a joint action protocol within the european institutions. the situation at any given moment is different, but the ability to react should be immediate and effective, always. the european tourism industry has been exemplary all these months: it has proposed solutions in the most difficult moments, such as the european hygiene certification seal and the digital covid certificate itself; it has joined, it has even created sustainable tourism clusters, as it has done in my region, aragon, models of shared governance that demonstrate that to move towards a more resilient, sustainable and innovative tourism model, cross-cutting understanding of all parts of the sector is necessary. let us follow their example, let us work together and establish european measures that benefit everyone.
mr president, commissioner, in the face of exceptional situations, exceptional solutions. that's what many of us stood for when we launched the covid certificate with one goal in mind: to restore mobility in europe after months of paralysis and closed borders. however, many member states and many european regions have made improper use of the covid certificate. some governments, for example, have put in place absurd restrictions on the pretext that if the european union approves the certificate, then anything is valid and useful. fortunately, after many months of uncertainty, we can now say that the epidemiological situation has changed, for the better, substantially. we must therefore adapt to a scenario that is evolving favourably and in which exceptional measures, such as the covid certificate, should not be prolonged beyond what is strictly necessary. so, after having gone through the worst of the pandemic, after watching the evolution of the virus, after seeing that there are countries that have lifted restrictions without this translating into an increase in contagion and, also, after seeing the latest assessments from the who, we must now focus on returning to normal as soon as possible. so it's time to start lifting restrictions.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and to highlight the work that has been done over the years, and particularly during the difficult negotiations, which has made it possible to reach a balanced compromise that responds to the main national interests. the amendment to the directive establishes a european regulatory framework that reinforces the 'polluter pays' principle, in line with the green deal, and is another step forward for the transport sector in the fight against climate change. this european framework will ensure uniformity of guidelines in the union, providing legal certainty and ensuring fair competition between european transport companies. the agreement does not impose obligations on member states in road pricing; they remain in their competence. it also provides the flexibility of instruments necessary for states to adapt and respond to their particular territorial, socioeconomic and population distribution characteristics and to the needs of their road transport system. the final agreement combines climate commitment with socioeconomic and territorial commitment to further progress towards a green and just transition for all union territories.
thank you very much. and it's really fortunate that the european union has so many different languages. i am very happy that we can all speak our native languages here. and finally, a word to commissioner dalli, to conclude this debate. please! please!
member of the commission. – mr president, it’s good to hear that many of you are in favour of the agreement, but i hear the concerns too. i have already explained why the commission is in favour of the agreement, and let me now briefly react to some of your criticisms. the commission would also have preferred a faster phase-out of time-based user charges for heavy-duty vehicles. the two-year limit suggested by the amendment is, however, not realistic. on the comments that the new road-pricing rules would favour certain technologies or fuels over others, the commission has consistently given the same answer. the only technology-neutral way to address emissions via tolling is to link those tolls to certified emission levels. it is technically not possible to identify the source of fuel or electricity in a vehicle and it would not be sound to link tolls to fuel types. that would not be technology-neutral. as regards charging for noise, next to air pollution, the directly applicable reference charges for pollution include a basic noise component too. if the new directive is adopted, member states will also have the option to charge more wherever justified. on double taxation, i can say that there is no risk of this in the case of the co2-based toll variation. this was precisely the reason why the commission proposed a variation to be revenue-neutral. it should result in no additional burden on the sector. importantly, also legally, this remains an infrastructure charge paid for the user infrastructure, not to internalise the cost of co2 emissions. so the risk is more relevant in the case of external cost-charging for co2. in order to ensure coherence and avoid any duplication with a forthcoming ets, the draft eurovignette directive has safeguards in the form of review clauses. for instance, the commission will have to assess the coherence within five years, and where appropriate, propose to amend the provisions of the eurovignette directive. if the eurovignette directive is not amended by 2027 and an eps for road is in place, the commission shall update the values that can be charged for co2, taking into account the effective carbon price in the eu. thus, it will not be allowed to charge twice for the same co2 emissions. i hope that with this i have managed to address some of your concerns, and i very much count on the support of the european parliament to finally adopt the long due revision of the eurovignette directive. most importantly, this will result in meaningful change on the ground and thus contribute to fairer and more efficient road transport.
the debate on this subject is over, and i would like to remind my colleagues that the vote will take place tomorrow on this very complex and long-standing issue, on which a certain compromise has been reached, but the vote will take place tomorrow.
the sitting is closed and will resume tomorrow, thursday 17 february, at 8.30 a.m., with the announcement of the results of the second vote today. the rules of procedure have been published and are available on the european parliament's website.
ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you. we're in session for the day. before i go on to announce the results of the vote, i should like to refer to an unacceptable and absolutely reprehensible event that took place yesterday in the chamber of the european parliament. i am reading to you the exact reaction of the president of the european parliament, roberta metsola, to this phenomenon: the european parliament has been the subject of a number of reports and reports, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on them. always and everywhere. it offends me and everyone else in europe. we are arguing the exact opposite. we are the house of democracy. this greeting belongs to the darkest chapter of our history and it must stay there. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. i am sure that this statement reflects the whole democratic, constitutional, parliamentary spectrum of the european parliament and not just the bureau of the european parliament. we, as the bureau of the european parliament, have a mandate, not only from the members of the european parliament, but from the vast majority of european citizens who have elected us here, to defend parliamentary democracy and the rule of law; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
we will begin with the announcement of the results of the second vote on wednesday, february 16, 2022. (the president declared the results of the vote) for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes
the identity and democracy (id) political group informed the president about decisions on changes in appointments and committees. these decisions will be referred to in the minutes of today's meeting and will take effect from the date of this communication.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on drought and other extreme weather events in the iberian peninsula and elsewhere in europe (2022/2543 ((rsp)). the debate will be conducted with a round of speakers from the political groups.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am concerned by the serious drought situation suffered in the iberian peninsula and in particular by the current situation facing some areas in the north and centre of portugal. the eu is helping monitor the evolution of the situation through the european drought observatory of copernicus. climate change will further increase water scarcity and drought hazard, affecting both its frequency and magnitude, not only in the iberian peninsula, but across southern countries and other parts of the eu. extreme weather events are expected to rise, and therefore we have to look at both the short- and the long-term solutions. every year losses caused by drought amount to 9 billion euros in the eu. this is a very high figure, which is happening with an increase of temperatures by 1.1 degrees. with global warming at three degrees, droughts would happen twice as often, and the losses in europe would increase to eur 40 billion per year, with the most severe impacts in the mediterranean and atlantic regions. this is why it is so crucial to accelerate the transition towards sustainable and resilient food systems and put our farmers on the path to climate neutrality. we should not pretend that current ways of producing food can continue unchanged. the new common agricultural policy provides opportunities to help the sector adapt, and the commission will encourage portugal and spain to make use of the possibilities and the cap strategic plans. i call upon national authorities not only of the iberian peninsula, but of all the areas likely to get affected by droughts, to establish sustainable and climate-resilient water-management practices that fully reflect the available water resources and the needs of all users – including the environment in a given river basin; fully implement the water framework directive and reach its targets at the latest by 2027 by utilising its means, particularly river basin management plans, drought management plans and the economic instruments for setting the right water price; make the most of the new cap strategic plans to deal with water management challenges as the commission has recommended; and ensure that irrigation projects strictly comply with the requirements of the cap regulation. some actions have already been taken. my understanding is that the portuguese authorities are already defining national emergency solutions that may contribute to alleviate the worst drought episode experienced by portugal in the last 17 years, and are also reflecting in medium-term initiatives that will help the agricultural sector to better adapt and thrive under the changing climate. i also welcome the portuguese-spanish transnational cooperation concerning sustainable and climate-resilient management of cross-border rivers such as miño, lima, douro, tagus, and guadiana; the future implementation of a system that will allow the exchange in real time of hydrologic and meteorological data; and also the ongoing discussions on new joint collaboration projects between spain and portugal that facilitate joint responses and should materialise in sustainable and climate-resilient management of the water resources. within the framework of the common agricultural policy, i am pleased to inform you that the commission’s services are in contact with the portuguese national and regional authorities looking into the support that the common agricultural policy can provide to face this national catastrophe. i shall briefly sketch some of the most relevant lines of action through which the eu may provide support. the cap decoupled income support provides an annual safety cushion for farmers. the basic income support offers a basic layer of income support for farmers and can be complemented by additional income support targeting specific types of beneficiaries or specific issues, for instance sectors in difficulty. the commission has always shown flexibility in relation to the level of advances for these payments. in this regard many of the sectors that traditionally are most affected by weather phenomena, such as drought, also undergo structural difficulties and as such may have access to the voluntary coupled support subject to a set of conditions which contemplate exceptions due to unforeseen extreme circumstances. to put forward a concrete example, tomato producers in spain and portugal who already receive voluntary coupled support due to structural difficulties, may struggle to reach in this year the required minimum production level fixed in the eligibility conditions for the support due to the extreme weather conditions. should the member states’ authorities assessment of the situation confirm this, they may decide to still pay the support to the farmers concerned on the basis of force majeure circumstances. the european agricultural fund for rural development and the eu aid scheme for the fruit and vegetable sector under the european agricultural guarantee fund can be used by portugal and spain to help the farmers affected by extreme weather conditions. support can be granted to beneficiaries if the relevant measures – in particular those for restoring agricultural potential and for compensating losses through risk management tools – are programmed in the corresponding rural development or operational programmes. in particular, the rural development programme of 2014-2020 for mainland portugal, where the drought situation is more severe, includes a specific measure to support investment for the restoration of agricultural land and production potential damaged by natural disasters, adverse climate events and catastrophic events. in addition, for farmers participating in risk management tools of the rural development programmes, extreme weather events could trigger compensation for significant economic loss. this applies to farmers receiving support for participation in crop-, animal- and plant-insurance schemes and mutual funds for adverse climatic events, animal and plant diseases, pest infestations and environmental incidents. the production loss must amount to at least 20% of higher ceilings established in the rural development programmes. article 4 of the delegated regulation also allows for a national response in cases where beneficiaries are unable to fulfil their commitments taken under the rural development measures for the same reasons. there is also the possibility for the portuguese and spanish national authorities to grant, in the case of adverse climatic events, support to farmers from their national budget in line with the eu state aid rules, which enable member states to grant state aid to compensate the damage suffered due to such events. member states may decide to block-exempt such aid or to grant it as de minimis aid without the need for prior notification to and approval by the commission. there’s also the possible use of the eu solidarity fund to alleviate the drought situation in portugal and spain. the use of the eu solidarity fund may be requested by portuguese and spanish authorities, and notably in the event of severe natural disasters, in order to mobilise eu support to cover the costs of emergency and recovery operations incurred by public authorities. an eusf application can be submitted within 12 weeks from the occurrence of the disaster, showing that the total direct damage exceeds either 0.6% of gross national income or 1.5% of the gross domestic product of the affected region. drought is a progressively unfolding natural disaster, where a clear starting date cannot be determined. in such cases, the 12-week application deadline is counted from the date on which the public authorities of the affected state took official action for the first time against the effects of the natural disaster or from the date they declared a state of emergency or similar. i must nonetheless underscore that private damages and assistance to the agricultural sector and farmers is not eligible under the eusf, and that its application and budgetary processes are to undergo a legislative process involving the council and the european parliament that could take several months. i must also underscore that with intensifying climate change, as well as the opening-up of the eusf to pandemic related aid, the capacity of the fund to provide adequate solidarity relief will become increasingly curtailed, which again calls for prioritising structural adaptation solutions. i would invite the member state authorities to contact the concerned commission services, dg regio, as soon as possible in order to further explore the existing possibilities and applicable conditions. as you saw, the commission and national authorities can do a lot of things to support affected farmers, but we need to underline that water resources are only going to be more scarce in the future in certain areas of the eu and that we have to plan for it.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by stressing the timeliness and importance of this debate. it shows that, in an exceptional situation such as extreme drought, the citizens of europe can count on the solidarity of the european institutions, starting with the house of democracy, which is this parliament. the european union solidarity fund is there to do this, when necessary, complementing the actions of the member states and their institutions. the european council of agriculture and fisheries ministers will be discussing concrete measures to mitigate the effects of drought in portugal and spain, including livestock and agri-food activities, at the request of the two governments, on monday. other solidarity measures at european level will be discussed and taken up if and when necessary. mr president, commissioner, the climate is not a constant phenomenon. wet years and dry years are part of the weather record. dry years are not new, but the frequency and intensity with which they have occurred in various regions of europe, particularly in the iberian peninsula, is clear evidence of the impact of global warming. the pdsi drought index shows that 45% of the portuguese territory was in severe or extreme drought in january 2022, while the spi normalized precipitation index shows that most of the spanish territory was in a situation classified between slightly dry and very dry that month. the european environment agency, in its recent report on changing climate risks in europe, warns that southern europe must prepare for hotter summers, more frequent droughts and a higher risk of fire. it also states that central europe is likely to experience less summer rainfall, more frequent and stronger extreme weather events, including heavy rainfall, floods, droughts and fire risks. extreme drought and severe weather events are structural, but they have cyclical impacts. they are unnatural in their effect on people and territories. we must prevent the poorest and most vulnerable from suffering the worst consequences. that is what the governments of portugal and spain have done in this instance. and that's what we need to continue to do, all the time, in local, regional, national, european and global responses to extreme weather events. this evidence is an added reason to pursue our strong commitment to decarbonisation. i denounce here the regrettable exploitation of this situation by some who have not hesitated to challenge the closure of coal-fired power stations and other measures under way to comply with the climate law and the objectives of the european green deal and the fit for 55 package. the necessary responses are also an opportunity and a challenge to modernise and adopt best practices in water management. concrete measures were taken by the portuguese and spanish governments, both through their own measures and through the strengthening of bilateral cooperation in the management of the common river basins under the albufeira agreement. mr president, commissioner, in conclusion: we must fight climate change with determination, but at the same time we must continue to mobilise society, knowledge, technology, innovation and the sharing of good practice to ensure the safety and quality of life and the sustainable development of the territories in response to the new challenges we are facing. farmers must continue to have access to water to efficiently produce the goods we need. water must continue to be available from the taps for rational use. industry and services need water to provide essential products. the socialists and democrats make this a priority objective. count on us in portugal, in spain, wherever it is necessary to safeguard sustainable elements in the service of people and the planet.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for this debate on water stress, the drought in europe, because it clearly shows that the consequences of climate change are uneven and asymmetrical. most of the european population living under water stress lives in the southern european countries. in my country, spain, 22 million people, since the autumn, when the water season began, have been looking up at the sky because the rainfall has fallen by 35% and we hope that this situation will change in the coming months, because otherwise spain will enter what we can call a 'dry cycle'. during droughts we also look at the soil because our reservoirs are at 44% capacity and in the guadalquivir basin, for example, they are below 28%. this causes the dry season crops to be lost or badly affected, but in the spring the situation can be terrible. farmers in jaen can lose 80% of their olive harvest and, in the worst case, all of it. so, commissioner, we will need aid, but not just redirecting the aid we have, but additional aid. i would also like to say to this house that we are the most ambitious in calling for action to change climate change, because we are the most affected, but we also want realistic plans. it is therefore not normal that in the regulation on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use spain, a country affected by desertification in a large part of its territory, is, after sweden, the country most obliged to make these reductions. that's why i'm asking for sensitivity. i ask you to take account of this unfair asymmetrical distribution of the consequences of climate change in europe, in the southern countries, and to take it into account in the additional measures, but also in the joint proposals to reduce the consequences of climate change.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, the alarm bells are ringing in the iberian peninsula because we are certainly going through a long period of significantly below average rainfall. reserves are very low. in the case of catalonia, which is the case i know best, about 50%, and there is concern about the harvests. in some territories the situation is alarming and in others, at least, worrying. these periods of water scarcity are likely to occur more frequently due to climate change, although in the case of the mediterranean basin some models point to few days of rain, but with greater precipitation intensity. in any case, what is certain is that droughts in southern europe are nothing new. we have suffered a few in recent decades, so it would be difficult to explain why this relatively recurrent situation caught governments off guard, unprepared to deal with it. and there are duties that governments have to do in terms of water cycle management - extending and updating technical resources, policies for reusing water for agricultural and industrial uses, improvements in supply, catchments, reservoirs, reducing losses in the network, diversifying sources at the local level - with the aim of gaining room for manoeuvre to be able to anticipate decisions. it is not a matter of ruling by emergency decrees but of anticipating and adapting to potentially emergency situations and the consequences of climate change. so there are instruments, there are resources, but there has to be also the agility and the political will to anticipate climate emergencies.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, spain is facing its driest year in 17 years: reservoirs are below 40% of their capacity and in places like the guadalquivir basin, below 30%. from 1 april, several areas of spain, such as the campo de gibraltar, will be subject to restrictions on drinking water and farmers will face a devastating outlook, coupled with rising production costs and the entry of extra-community production which is unfairly competing. every year we repeat the same debates, we ask for the same aid, but if it comes, when it comes, it comes late and badly. these situations require foresight, investment and a long-term strategy. in spain, infrastructure is lacking not only to store water efficiently but also to ensure the connection between all watersheds in a national plan. it is obscene that infrastructure such as the rules dam has been waiting for 17 years for the pipes to reach the farmers and producers of the tropical coast. agricultural insurance against drought is absolutely deficient and does not take account of the real needs of farmers. you have launched a cap flooded with green ideology, but farmers want to be flooded with water and not with your ideology. we are, of course, demanding a specific fund for the drought. drought means the ruin of our producers, farmers and cattle farmers, but it means, above all, the ruin of a way of life for our people and for the rural areas. it is they who are really suffering from the desertification of land and restrictions on water use. in other words, yes, the union and the member states must react, put aside their ideology and focus on the real needs of producers.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the iberian peninsula is experiencing one of the worst winter droughts in decades. reserves of water in spain and portugal are facing their worst figures in years and there are no forecasts of rain in the coming weeks. between 1 october and 1 february, rainfall in spain was 36 per cent less than the 1981-2010 measure. climate change experts warn that warming will lead to more evapotranspiration in the mediterranean region and that the available water reserves will be smaller, with situations like the current one recurring more frequently. in addition, the risk of fires will be higher and the harvests will suffer greater impacts. the socialists in this parliament are in favour of the need for eu support, cooperation between member states, efficient and rational management of water resources, the albufera convention and a european strategy on desertification. we also work to ensure that the most vulnerable and poorest populations are not affected any more and we oppose the unfeasible absorption target assigned to spain in the new proposal for the utcuts regulation, which does not take into account the impacts of climate change.
the fight against cancer, mr president, is an important battle that europe must fight not only for today but also for the future. the protection of workers from carcinogens at work must be a key objective for the european union. this fight is an investment in future savings. when people get cancer, it is not only disastrous for their families but also for society because of the cost of care. half the population is now over 50, and this demographic trend is continuing. so the fight against cancer is just part of a healthy lifestyle, which we should pay much more attention to. not just in the workplace, but everywhere. healthy people lower health care costs, allow longer periods of active participation in society and the labour market, live longer independently and care for others, and thus contribute to a healthy economy. healthy people are the future of the european union. i would therefore ask the commission to include healthy lifestyles in all future proposals as an investment in future savings for a healthy european future.
mr president, the socialists and democrats welcome that today we can take another step forward in the protection of workers from exposure to harmful substances, which can cause cancer, infertility and many chronic diseases. we are also happy that beating cancer is at the top of the european agenda. we expect the commission and the member states to be ambitious in their measures against cancer at the workplace, and we are really looking forward to the updates of this directive because there is a continuous development in scientific research and we need to make sure that we protect workers accordingly. we should also not forget about asbestos, which causes 80% of occupational cancer. i remind you that this parliament voted for a strong resolution on asbestos, calling for a european strategy for the removal of all asbestos. therefore, we also call today on the commission to be ambitious and to quickly revise the asbestos directive with an exposure limit for asbestos to be set at 1 000 fibres per cubic metre. to achieve zero asbestos, we need a comprehensive approach, including an eu framework directive for national asbestos removal strategies, mandatory screening of buildings, provision of sealing and encapsulation of asbestos-containing materials, and, very importantly, better recognition and compensation of asbestos—related diseases to all exposed workers. i would like to finish by thanking the rapporteur and all the colleagues who worked on this important work today.
mr. president, cancer is a pandemic without waves, without restrictions, without being able to protect ourselves with masks or gloves. those who work on the front lines -- nurses, firefighters, delivery people, people who disinfect offices, schools, hospitals -- are more exposed than we are to carcinogens and mutagens. there are 13 million european workers exposed to hazardous substances on a daily basis. cancer is the leading cause of occupational deaths in the union. there are 100,000 new cases and 80,000 deaths every year. they're people, not statistics. he leaves behind children, family, friends, a void in the labor market and in the community. i don't think there's any of us who haven't lost a loved one to this unforgiving disease, but over 40 percent of cancers are preventable. we can and must do more. please support this proposal for a european directive! please support the european plan to fight cancer! please, regardless of political colour, support in our countries any measure that prevents, fights and alleviates the suffering caused by cancer! let me be very clear. there must be no more room in europe for governments that do not invest in research, do not fund screening programmes, do not build hospitals, do not make health education a priority, ignore palliation and do not support survivors!
mr president, commissioner, the right of workers to be protected against diseases, and in particular against occupational diseases, is a right recognized in the very constitution of the international labour organization. i would like to draw particular attention to women, because they have been the great neglected in the field of occupational risk prevention. the report we are discussing today has made a major step forward in this area by including toxic substances for reproduction in the directive. a fundamental achievement from a gender perspective, because exposure to these substances occurs in sectors that are highly feminized, such as cleaning and nursing, and because it particularly affects women's reproductive health. the exposure also occurs in other sectors, perhaps not as feminized, but where women are in a particularly vulnerable situation, such as temporary workers in the field. this report is a step forward for women, health workers, industrial workers, thousands of wage-earners whose labour rights and health rights are being strengthened, because no one - as has already been said here - has to get sick or die to earn a living by working.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to congratulate all those who have worked on this dossier. it's been clearly stated here over and over again that the health and safety of workers should be the absolute priority in any business. more than half of the annual work-related deaths in the european union are linked to cancer. the european parliament has clearly defined its position in the fight against this malignant disease and therefore we cannot agree to anything less than the highest standards of occupational safety. the proposed amendments to the directive provide for better protection at work for millions of european workers who are professionally exposed to benzene, nickel compounds and acrylonitrile. the amendment also seeks to ensure greater transparency for workers, employers and enforcement authorities and to contribute to a level playing field for economic operators, who also need to be taken into account. we welcome the decisive steps taken by this directive, in particular by extending the scope to include reprotexins, but also by the announcement of the commission's action plan foreseeing the inclusion of 25 additional substances in the directive. also, including the protection of medical personnel. the commission has also received comments from the sampled exporting producers. however, our work as a legislature is not yet finished. it is necessary to keep the existing legislation up to date with the latest developments. that's why i'm asking, commissioner, if the five-year limit could be reduced? it's worth seeing because there are many other scientific discoveries at our disposal. it's the only way we're going to ensure additional benefits for the health of our workers. and what is very important is the exchange of information, the establishment of a european register of dangerous medicines. ladies and gentlemen, no one's health should be compromised by their work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago this house discussed and approved the report on a european strategy against cancer, so that the european union can step up its research, prevention and treatment efforts to combat this insidious disease. we all recognised that the fight against cancer must be a priority and we shared the need to do more. in the meantime, however, millions of europeans continue to get sick or die of cancer. what i would like us to reflect on today are the figures that have been put forward by the rapporteur, the commissioner and my colleagues, impressive figures, figures that we cannot accept. a few hours after the adoption of the beca report, parliament is called upon to decide on another measure which, although apparently different, sees cancer as the linking factor, making us realize how much action is needed on several fronts to eradicate this disease from our continent. cancer is dangerous primarily because of the ways and times in which it develops. prevention is thus the most effective weapon to combat it, together with a strengthening of research and joint actions, which can be better tackled by joint action at union level and legislation at european level adapted to the new dangers to which workers are exposed. it is estimated that the rules we are approving today will reduce the exposure of our european workers to carcinogenic chemicals by about one million. in this measure i appreciate the attention paid to the hospital workers, who have been on the front lines of the pandemic for two years. health care workers are the ones who deal with dangerous medicines on a daily basis, half of them reproductive toxic, and they need proper training to handle these products. so today, with the fourth amendment we are going to make to this directive, we are not only updating the list of carcinogens, which should be further revised in a shorter time, but we are also setting a european level of exposure limits to them. today, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking another step forward in protecting european citizens who, even in their workplaces, must feel safe because of a europe that exists and protects their health.
mr president, i would like to thank you. everyone who can work should work, of course, but then we must also make sure that you do not risk your life when you go to work. in europe, ten people die every hour from cancer caused by dangerous substances and medicines at work. there are hundreds of thousands of people every year, ordinary workers who go to work to provide for themselves and their families. this is completely unacceptable. this is not just a public health issue. it is also a major failure when we fail to address the social injustice and inequality that exists in the eu. we have a shared responsibility to develop clear legislation and put more pressure on employers. we need to turn every stone and explore every possibility that in the long term leads to less exposure to dangerous substances for ordinary people in europe. in addition to the commission's proposal, we now have a more bulletproof directive which also covers more substances that interfere with reproduction, and we should be proud of that. let's get this over with. no job is worth dying for.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the socialist and democratic group has always been at the forefront of the protection of workers from the risks associated with exposure to harmful substances at work. the agreement reached between parliament and the council on the updating of the carcinogens directive is a good agreement, which we wholeheartedly support. the application of the same approach to toxic substances for reproduction as carcinogens and mutagens will ensure better protection for workers, legal consistency and a level playing field between member states. the fight against cancer requires ambitious solutions and a clear strategic plan, with measures covering all the regulatory fronts, in line with what we voted for yesterday in the report of the special committee on the fight against cancer. updating is therefore a key component in ensuring safe and healthy workplaces. we also call on the european commission to put on the table a revision of the asbestos directive, a substance that is still present in many buildings in europe although it was banned as early as 2005. european citizens have the right to a safe workplace. there's no job worth dying for.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this fundamental and very consensual debate. we are often confronted with a question that citizens ask us: what is europe doing? well, it is a matter of life and death, health and disease, and europe is acting. you mentioned yesterday the adoption of the cancer plan. it is an ambitious plan, which goes to the heart of the concerns of millions of europeans and their families. can we beat cancer? let us be optimistic, but we will not defeat it with medicine alone: we will defeat it first through prevention. it is not acceptable for a worker to be exposed to these risks and dangers. the european union as we know it owes the same protection to all workers, whether they work in sweden, romania, luxembourg or italy, in a large or small company. i agree that small businesses in particular need help in implementing these precautions and measures, which i hope you will adopt shortly. it is not just a question of adopting measures; they must be implemented. there is therefore a very great responsibility, not only on the part of the social partners and the companies, but also on the part of the member states, which must implement the controls, and therefore strengthen the control measures and means, which are extremely important. in the end, our task is far from finished. i wouldn't say it's started, but we still have a lot of work to do. we have now committed ourselves to action and to proposing limits on 25 additional substances. we are already doing this for a number of them, as soon as possible, as early as 2024 - perhaps this is one of the questions that needs to be considered. i see in our procedures an important role, of course, for scientific analysis, because we are not working at random, we need to have a solid scientific basis, and for the social partners who are ours. i would, however, like to see more speed and more resources allocated to this fundamental work, which, as i have just said and as many of you have said, is a matter of life and death. the commission will therefore make every effort to speed up these procedures and i hope that you will support the commission in this task. you did mention asbestos; we are also going to present an asbestos strategy to the european parliament in september. so i think we're on the right track. we can't change course now. the europeans would not forgive us otherwise.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday, 17 february 2022. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. despite our joint efforts and impressive advances in medicine and technology, cancer continues to pose a major threat to europeans. it is no different in the workplace, as more than half of work-related deaths in the eu are caused by cancer. there are many fronts in the fight against cancer, and unfortunately, there is no one simple solution to all problems. early diagnosis is very important, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, when she raised the need for systematic screening for cancer, as well as rapid and effective treatment. preventive measures are also key. many cancers are preventable, and it's our collective responsibility to bring about a scenario where diagnosis and treatment are not needed as often, because cancer is just much less common. i am convinced that the text adopted will help us to achieve this. more stringent occupational exposure limit standards although difficult to implement for technological, administrative and financial reasons are necessary and a key tool for the protection of workers. i am also pleased to hear about the use of re-toxins and dangerous medicinal products. further action is needed on both these fronts, such as training of staff, raising awareness of risks and, of course, research and analysis. the health of europeans must be our priority.
in writing. unfortunately, 52% of annual work-related deaths in the union are attributable to work-related cancers. in addition to carcinogens, workers are often exposed to a combination of substances that have adverse effects on their reproductive system, cause reduced fertility and infertility, and adversely affect foetal development and breastfeeding. it is very important to improve the protection of workers and their children, especially with regard to the safe working conditions of pregnant or breastfeeding women. the organisation of prevention at work should therefore follow the same approach to carcinogens, mutagens and substances harmful to reproduction, thereby ensuring legal coherence and a level playing field in the member states.
in writing. it is good that parliament has taken the initiative to tackle an issue that is of great importance to millions of our citizens, namely the adoption of legislation to better protect workers from carcinogens. the current directive needs to be replaced as a matter of urgency. cancer is the leading cause of work-related deaths in the european union. according to the data, occupational cancer accounts for approximately 52% of work-related deaths. these worrying statistics should prompt strong legislative changes that will strengthen the protection of workers against threats to their health. i support the commission's initiative to make the fight against cancer a priority for the union over the five-year period 2019-2024, given that according to official figures, up to 40% of cancer cases in europe are preventable. it is sufficient to have legal provisions to prevent workers from being exposed to mutagenic or carcinogenic substances. that would be the aim of the amendments to the directive. let us not forget another important point. positive legislative changes to protect workers' health and life must be properly communicated to employers and their organisations in order to gain their support for actions that effectively protect workers from work-related cancer. this requires appropriate consultation and agreement with all stakeholders affected by the legislative changes. but let us remember that our goal must always be the health and lives of people.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in the philippines (2022/2540 (rsp)) 1.i would remind members that no spontaneous speeches or blue cards will be accepted in any debate at this session. as in the past, parliament will also be able to receive contacts from its liaison offices in the member states. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time. the following table is presented: see minutes of the sitting.
author. – mr president, i must say as an author the for the ppe group, it was a pleasure to work with the other authors from the political groups. we got great cooperation. as a result, we have good compromises and a very strong resolution, which i hope the philippine authorities will take note of, because there has been persistent impunity for human rights violations in the philippines under president rodrigo duterte’s administration. since the so-called war on drugs was launched in 2016, thousands have been killed and there has been an unwillingness to investigate. human rights activists have been branded as terrorists and equated with the armed wing of the communist party or ‘red-tagged’, many subsequently being killed. now that the campaigning has kicked off for the presidential elections in may, fake news has become a particularly prevalent phenomenon in the country. although the president is banned from seeking re-election, the son of former dictator ferdinand marcos is currently leading in the polls, whitewashing the thousands of atrocities of the marcos regime in the 70s and 80s. given the scale of these deplorable human rights violations and the failure to bring the perpetrators to justice, efforts must be bolstered to ensure that the upcoming elections are fair and free. unfortunately, so far the philippine authorities have not invited the eu to conduct an election observation mission. election observation missions contribute to the strengthening of democratic institutions, building public confidence in electoral processes and would help to deter intimidation and indeed violence. the eu should be invited to observe elections to help ensure a high standard. since a successful application of the philippines to the gsp+ in 2014, the philippines has enjoyed greater market access to the eu, which has led to a significant increase in exports. however, this must be re-evaluated if human rights obligations are not observed. i call on the commission to temporarily withdraw gsp+ preferences if there is no substantial improvement and willingness to cooperate on the part of the philippine authorities. it might be the best weapon to get them to mend their ways. thank you very much again and it was a pleasure to work with my fellow authors.
mr president, commissioners, since rodrigo duterte began his term as president of the philippines, the country has been mired in massive human rights violations and extrajudicial executions. in fact, the so-called "war on drugs" has led to more than 30,000 murders in the country through the practice of network tagging, which, arbitrarily, in the street, or as a result of police raids, has been encouraged by duterte and ends in murders. among these victims, among these 30,000 victims that civil society in the philippines is denouncing, there are 146 human rights defenders and 22 journalists. none of these cases, none of them, have ended in a trial. we are facing the fight against political opponents, activists, journalists, systematically imprisoned on false or fabricated charges. the country lives in violence, repression and impunity. that's the reality. and today the european parliament wishes to express its strongest condemnation. firstly, it calls on the authorities to put an end to this situation, to stop the harassment and political persecution and to guarantee the rights and freedoms in the country, especially of the minorities and women who are under attack. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of goods and services. it's the fifth resolution we have, the fifth in five years on the philippines. the european commission adds human rights clauses when we make trade agreements. what has to happen for them to apply? this is the fifth time we have spoken and condemned this situation. and thirdly, it shows our support for the filipino people and hopes that the upcoming elections will bring about the change that their people need and, above all, that the filipino people deserve. (applause) i would like to thank
author. mr president, in the philippines, under the so-called war on drugs, at least thirty thousand people have been extrajudicially executed. under the pretext of fighting terrorism, trade unionists, human rights defenders and political leaders, such as comrade tripon/jojo, who was recently assassinated, are now being attacked, murdered and imprisoned. and from here i want to send a very strong hug to your comrades. those who oppose the government are marked as combatants and, on many occasions, this leads to persecutions and murders. state agencies, such as the national task force, to end the local communist armed conflict, are tasked with carrying out these signals that end with murders like tripon's. the unions are persecuted in such a way that people don't even dare to join a union. and so a long list of human rights violations which apparently are not enough for the commission to suspend the privileges granted under the system of generalized preferences: five declarations in this parliament. a system which, in theory, is conditional on the application of 27 human and labour rights conventions which, clearly, are not being respected in the philippines. we demand the suspension of the system of generalized preferences and an embargo of technology that serves the repression of the filipino people. all our solidarity with the filipino people.
i would like to support the motion for a resolution tabled by the drafters. i want to thank you for a job of exceptional quality. the philippines is a particularly sad example. it's an example of how under the guise of fighting drugs, you can actually start a near civil war. extraordinary violence, thousands of extrajudicial executions, the killing of journalists, political activists, in short, the situation in the philippines is extraordinarily dire. it's what my colleagues here said. i remember, i was also involved, that this is unfortunately not the first debate we have here about the atrocities of the current president's regime. unfortunately, the situation is not improving. our words have ended with the adoption of a resolution, but it is clear that the current president and his government are not going to change anything. on the contrary, other negative shifts are taking place. it is not that the current regime in the philippines has withdrawn from the international criminal court, but that this is an attempt to avoid the international criminal court from reviewing the human rights violations in the philippines and the responsibility of the current president and his government. this situation is very serious and we should be clear that if this continues after the presidential election, it will have an impact on economic relations. on the one hand, there is the flagrant violation of human rights in the philippines. on the other hand, trade between the european union and the philippines is increasing, and that is simply not normal and not acceptable to us. so please, let it not be said by some of my colleagues that if the situation does not improve even after the elections that will take place this spring, if there is no investigation into the thousands of extrajudicial killings, then we must restrict the philippines' access to our internal market. it is not possible to talk about it and do nothing, because then it is really a waste of time. so i thank you for the motion for a resolution and i ask the commission to draw the consequences if it is adopted, which it will be.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, the violence and repression under the duterte regime is labeled as crimes against humanity, as the international criminal court has done in the preliminary investigation into the war on drugs, which has reportedly caused more than 20 000 murders since 2016. under duterte's government, there were over 166 murders of environmental defenders. the philippines is the country that tops this sad ranking. it has been a year since the tumandok massacre, in which the armed forces of the philippines broke into the homes of nine indigenous leaders and murdered them in cold blood. families, society, expect justice, but it is impossible, because in duterte's philippines impunity has been the law, and attempts to find the facts, to find the guilty has been impossible. duterte has made a show of not cooperating with the international criminal court. he's made obstruction of justice the campaign slogan. so, in this context, it is very difficult to think that elections are held in a context of freedom. that is why the european union must accompany local observers in these elections and that is why, commissioner, we must suspend the system of generalised preferences. we must do so now, because otherwise the european union will be complacent about this violence, about the suppression of the human rights of the civilian population, which we are denouncing here today. that is why i think we must suspend it now, and we must also clearly support the role of the international criminal court from here. the only international guarantee that state leaders can answer for their actions and not hide their crimes under the carpet of national sovereignty, as duterte tries to do. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner, the winner of the upcoming presidential election in the philippines will have a major task to reverse the dire human rights situation which has seen an appalling deterioration under president duterte. since 2014 the philippines has enjoyed tariff preferences under the gsp+ system. the eu is the fourth-biggest trading partner with the philippines. however, the gsp+ scheme is up for review with the current arrangement coming to its end in 2023. now, the eu must see a steep positive curve in the philippines’ human rights situation to be able to accept its possible reapplication to the scheme by 2024. we demand an immediate end to extrajudicial killings, an end to red-tagging human rights defenders, journalists, trade union activists. the war on drugs is to end immediately. however, it is not only the gsp+ that is at stake. the eu is also increasing its requirements on companies’ human rights conduct throughout their value chains. respect for human rights will be a key factor for any business in europe making their sourcing decisions. it is only wise to consider creating enabling conditions for business to operate in an environment free of human rights or labour rights violations. effective implementation of international human rights standards and fundamental ilo conventions will be a prerequisite for a trade deal to be concluded with the eu.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! the philippine elections are in three months. the same filipinos who decided that duterte is their president will decide who will run their country. it is not us, it is not the european union, that will decide this. i think what's happening in the philippines requires our attention, because it's a country that has many ties, also cultural and even religious, with europe. the fact that the authorities of this country are fighting drug traffickers today, in violation of the law (as our joint resolution says), is the result of the fact that the previous authorities of this country did not pay effective attention to this great challenge and the great problem in this country. but it's certainly worth looking for the common denominator. let's remember our cooperation with this country, but let's also remember the values that we share.
mr president, commissioner, it has been said that president duterte, by using anti-terrorism, anti-drug and anti-communist laws to justify himself, has created an environment conducive to attacks on human rights defenders and a climate of total impunity. the approach of the elections in the philippines raises fears of increased efforts to silence dissenting voices. the european union continues to grant enhanced trade preferences to the philippines under the gsp+. this status, as we know, depends on the implementation of international human rights conventions, which the philippines should respect and has committed itself to respect. in its gsp+ evaluation report covering the period 2018-2019, the commission expressed its serious concern regarding the human rights situation in the philippines. so how many emergency resolutions and how many evaluation reports will have to be published, and, most importantly, how many advocates will have to die before we can act? i therefore urge the commission to initiate the procedure for withdrawing the trade preferences granted to the philippines immediately. we must stop being complicit in the massive human rights violations in this country.
mr president, the human rights situation in the philippines has gravely deteriorated under the presidency of rodrigo duterte. between 12 000 and 30 000 people, including women and children, have reportedly been killed in the context of his ‘war on drugs’ campaign since 2016. according to prominent ngos working in the field, this campaign could be considered as a crime against humanity carried out with near total impunity. on the other hand, at least 146 human rights defenders and 22 journalists have been killed since 2016, as well as trade unionists, indigenous people and environmental activists. the government has so far failed to ensure independent and effective investigations and prosecutions against the perpetrators of those crimes. in a climate of deteriorating media freedom and internal repression, the upcoming presidential elections in the country are at risk of not being held safely and democratically. in this regard, we regret that the philippine authorities have not invited the eu to conduct an election observation mission. a robust response is needed to reverse the downward trend of human rights in the country. the eu should suspend the gsp+ system without further notice until the human rights situation in the country improves significantly. the eu should stand on its core values and denounce the massive violations of human rights and support all mechanisms for accountability of the perpetrators of those violations while ensuring the reparations of the victims.
member of the commission. – mr president, we share the concerns of honourable members over the situation in the philippines. concerning extrajudicial killings, the eu continues to receive reports of human rights violations in law enforcement operations in the so-called war on drugs and in red—tagging. we have repeatedly called on the government to conduct impartial, transparent investigations of all such deaths. during last year’s first sub—committee on good governance, rule of law and human rights under our partnership and cooperation agreement, the eu called on the philippines to address extrajudicial killings, provide remedies for victims and hold perpetrators accountable. the eu also raised concerns about restrictions of civil space, including reported attacks against human rights defenders, trade unionists and journalists. the philippines recognised its obligations to respect freedom of opinion and expression, including journalists’ freedom of information. the government also agreed on the need to protect human rights defenders and enable their work, in accordance with the un declaration on human rights defenders. we will continue to press for this declaration to be fully implemented in practice. there are also grave violations of labour rights with continued reports of extrajudicial killings of trade unionists and violations of fundamental international labour organization (ilo) conventions on child labour. intimidation and persecution of trade unionists impedes effective implementation of all fundamental ilo conventions. we reiterate to the government its human rights and labour rights obligations related to its commitments under the eu’s special incentive arrangement, the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp). a gsp+ monitoring mission will go to manila shortly, providing an opportunity to engage government and civil society directly. the eu welcomes the un—philippines joint programme for cooperation on human rights, signed last july, and will provide financial support for its implementation, including on domestic accountability mechanisms. finally, next week marks the fifth anniversary of the imprisonment of senator leila de lima. she will have spent five years in pre-trial detention, yet is standing again in the country’s general election. as former president benigno aquino said, if injustice could be done to leila, a sitting senator, injustice could be done to anyone. so today we salute the senator’s courage. her rights to due process must be respected.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday, 17 february 2022. written declarations (article 171 of the ccc)
in writing. reports of human rights violations in the philippines are very disturbing. thousands of people, mostly innocent, have lost their lives in the so-called 'war on drugs' as a result of the actions of private militias and paramilitary groups. human rights defenders who try to seek justice or resist attacks are themselves victims of violence. the authorities are conducting a lax investigation and only in a small number of cases. but there are also developments that give hope for positive change. the supreme court has ruled that a portion of the current anti-terrorism law is unconstitutional. parliament adopted new legislation to provide legal protection for human rights defenders. the eu-manila partnership and cooperation agreement is now in its fourth year and can be an effective tool to influence the authorities in manila to take decisive steps to improve the situation. the first priority is to curb the illicit activities of paramilitary groups and to ensure that the fight against drugs is conducted in accordance with national law and international standards. the people responsible for mass murder should be brought to justice. the leaders must also do everything possible to ensure that the presidential elections scheduled for may are free and fair and that the positive changes i mentioned earlier continue. i think we should have a calm and substantive conversation with the philippine authorities.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the death penalty in iran (2022/2541 (rsp)) i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this.
author. – mr president, dear colleagues, seven months ago the european parliament demanded the iranian government the immediate release of ahmadreza djalali. today we reiterate that for djalali and for the thousands of political dissidents, protesters, activists and members of ethnic, religious and sexual minorities unfairly imprisoned and arbitrarily and summarily sentenced to death by the iranian regime. but apart from djalali, muhammad jawad, narges mohammadi, akbari-monfared and so many thousands of peaceful iranians have no time to spare. it’s a moral imperative that the european union, with its high representative at the helm, leads a strong response to the iranian regime. the response must be followed by the commitment of all its member states. a response that needs to include further targeted sanctions if necessary, and must include also a un mission on the ground and an independent investigation into the violations of human rights in this country. and let me say that i wonder if we are being too generous to the iranian regime because when we speak of the death penalty, even with unreserved rejection of it as this is the case, i mean it suggests that previous judicial procedure, some kind of legality. that is not the case. in fact, there is no death penalty in iran. there are sheer executions: state murder as a form of crime against humanity. look at the appalling repression, enforced disappearances and massive executions of political dissidents in the 1988 massacre and notice that there has been no investigation or accountability for these crimes that involve the current leader of iran in a prominent role. look at the horrifying record of iran in executions: at least 275 last year, including 10 women and two child offenders. we cannot turn a blind eye. the european union is not just another voice in the international arena. the european union is in a unique position to advocate for the abolition of the death penalty and has a unique responsibility to do so. no other political community in the world carries the moral authority and the credibility to demand the end of this inhumane, irreversible and cruel punishment. we take pride in our human rights standards. we demand respect for the rule of law. well, we have to live up to the values we hold so dear. respect for life is not a privilege, it’s a basic right. and where and when this right is violated in such an abhorrent and massive manner, those who suffer – and it is the case of the iranian people – are entitled to expect from us our solidarity, our support, our awareness and our help.
madam president, burkina faso is a country deeply affected by neoliberalism and imperialism. we have good examples of this, such as the grabbing of land and resources by multinationals, the imposition of free trade agreements that worsen the economic situation, or neo-liberal reforms imposed from outside with disastrous consequences for the people. it is certainly regrettable that in the 21st century we should continue to condemn the interference and economic exploitation of the former colonial powers and, in many cases, their contribution to generating conflicts or coups d'état. the latest political processes in burkina faso have helped to promote a national unity government that has been overthrown by this military coup, thus removing the possibility of democratization of the country, contributing to the rise of fundamentalist violence. it is therefore essential that we in this institution defend the sovereignty of peoples and their right to govern themselves, and condemn any attempt or attack on their sovereign decision.
mr president, madam president of the commission, i would like to express today our strong condemnation of putin's invasion of ukraine and our utmost solidarity with the victims of the ukrainian people in these difficult times. but it should also be remembered that we have in this house groups of putin's right-wing allies, funded to work precisely for the destabilisation of europe, something that cannot be whitewashed any longer. europe must act firmly, but with the aim of building peace. the priority must be to stop the loss of human life, to avoid the temptation to use this conflict to further other interests. we must promote international negotiation spaces and use all means at our disposal to nurture the spaces for dialogue, because we know that this is the only way to put an end to this terrible tragedy. we do not make the old mistakes of aggravating conflicts and engaging in military escalations that have stretched for years with immense pain. it is time to do politics with capital letters and to show that europe can and will keep up with the times. peace alone is the goal.
mr president, we condemn the attack and the russian invasion of ukraine, without any nuance. eight years of attacks on the dombas, the impunity of the nazi gangs, the non-compliance with the minsk agreements, the deployment of nato on the russian border - none of this justifies the attack. we are against war and for that very reason we cannot support a resolution which calls for arms and which refers to nato as a guarantee of peace in an instrument of war. nor can we support sanctions which directly affect the civilian population and which have historically proved ineffective. never in history have sanctions been used to end any conflict. we find it shameful that a peace support fund should be devoted to the purchase of arms. we defend the diplomatic and political way as the only way to resolve conflicts. we are in favour of sending humanitarian aid and opening the borders to receive refugees. i would like to end by making my own a phrase from our secretary-general, julio anguita: 'cursed be war and the scoundrels who support it'.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, madam commissioner, the cohesion funds were set up to build a fairer europe. we cannot allow bureaucracy to turn this magnificent tool into a problem. the covid crisis has already changed our approach to cohesion policy and we have been able to adapt the funds to the urgent needs of the pandemic. now we need to adapt to a new crisis. the war is going to affect us tremendously. we are facing unprecedented energy price increases, supply problems and the arrival of hundreds of thousands of refugees whom we have to help. the commission's idea of supporting the refugee crisis with the remnants of the previous period is a good idea, but clearly not enough, commissioner. we need to present a new emergency instrument for ukraine that gives support to refugees and also to european businesses and families most affected by the crisis. i'd like to know your position on that. don't you think, just as we did during covid, that now is the time for us to support the regions most affected by the crisis in ukraine with the funds of the new period? on the other hand, as you know, there is another matter that concerns me. last november, the director-general of the commission's regional and urban policy dg pointed to spain as the country lagging the most behind in the european union in drawing up cohesion policy for the new period. the warning has been of no use. we have not yet submitted even a draft of the association agreement and, with the low economic growth we have, this situation is very serious and we risk losing an annuity of the funds. we're not the only country. i would like to know what the commission is going to do: is it going to be more flexible with the deadlines or is it going to condemn member states that are late to lose an annuity? i would also like to ask you what the commission can do to provide technical support so that the member states are not overburdened administratively.
mr president, all over the world, civil society organizations and individual citizens are seeing civil and political freedoms restricted and threatened. the deterioration is evident on many fronts, but i will focus my intervention on two points of particular concern to me. on the one hand, the increasingly widespread practice of resorting to "mordaza" demands or strategic demands against public participation by economic and political powers to threaten and silence members of civil society. we shall soon be starting work on putting a stop to it at european level. on the other hand, the lack of an adequate european framework for protection and monitoring makes it impossible for member states such as spain, with its gag law still in force, to adopt laws that reduce the rights and demobilize those who act in defence of human rights. by shrinking the space for civil society action, we are also shrinking our democracies.
mr president, throughout history we have built civilisation on the idea that we must somehow abandon the more animal, herd-like impulses and build common spaces in which we can live and coexist freely, regardless of where we come from or how we feel. and in that sense, all our constitutional texts in the european union and also the laws that develop them enshrine that principle, that principle of non-discrimination, that principle of freedom. but practice tells us that, on many occasions, there are setbacks. there are certain discourses and practices, even within the european union itself, which can be a setback, and so we are talking about a problem that is rooted in the human race itself and which, of course, is still present and is structural in our societies. and in that sense, the temptation to build purely ethnic societies has also written the worst pages in european history. in that sense, i think this report is timely. i would like to congratulate mrs yenbou on a great report and also on her negotiating skills. the contributions made by my group, the socialist and democratic group, are based on four main points. as for ensuring access to culture, ensuring that there is no discrimination in education either; there are many ways of discriminating in education and generating ghettos and generating scholarships. as for pursuing hate speech and misinformation that occurs every day through a medium as powerful as the internet's social media, use the same tools to be able to combat it. and of course, using a stage as vigorous as the world of sport, and also the world of entertainment, and, on a more community scale, to be able to transfer, transmit all those values of anti-racism. in this sense, we want to ensure that the motto of the european union, 'united in diversity', is not only a word but also a deed.
mrs charonzová, commissioner gabriel, i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs salima yenbou, on her excellent report, because we really have to do much more from europe in the fight against racism. we can see racism as the worst form of border, worse than a physical border: a mental border that we have to tear down with the same energy with which in europe we have long ago, fortunately, torn down physical borders. and for that, the socialist group proposes two fundamental elements. first, a common curriculum of education for european citizenship which contains a very strong component of combating racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia and islamophobia. secondly, at the conference on the future of europe we should ask for the fight against all these ills to be included in the treaties of the european union as a sign of the identity of the european union, as a concrete task to be carried out within the constitutional framework of the european union itself.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, promoting a digital and intelligent transformation, which will place us at the highest standards of intelligence, innovation and competitiveness globally, is now more necessary than ever. we're seeing it in putin's war, which combines conventional attacks with cyberattacks. these are hybrid wars that are doing serious damage to democracy and human rights. and we see this in times of covid, where it has become clear how important the role of online work has been in the workplace and in sectors like education and health. this report addresses the need to move forward in this much-needed digital transition, but without losing sight of the most vulnerable. we want to make the digital age a level playing field for all, from the point of view of social and territorial cohesion, but how can we achieve this digital transition without creating inequalities or deepening the existing gaps? the challenge is important: falling one way or the other depends, for example, on the place where you reside. so much so that, according to the data provided by the european commission itself, 41% of europeans living in rural areas do not have access to high-speed networks. in other words, there is a very wide geographical gap, which is even more marked when we look at the situation in the depopulated areas of the european union. but we can also talk about a gender gap, which is palpable and reflected in numerous studies, which say that women are systematically underrepresented in the digital sector, as they occupy only 17% of the specialized positions in this field. there is also a clear generation and education gap: 42% of the adult population in the european union does not have basic digital skills. in addition, there is also a very important gap in the manufacturing sector, as 37% of workers lack digital skills for their jobs and only 17% of smes have successfully integrated digital technologies into their businesses. in this sense, cohesion policy is certainly an essential tool to bridge these gaps, but it is very important to do so by taking into account the particular needs of each region and offering tailor-made assistance. in this report we propose a series of measures to achieve this. we believe it is essential to exploit the potential of the european observatory for rural innovation and development for the collection and identification of data, including at map level, and for proper intervention in the most affected regions and municipalities. in the same way, we believe it is essential that, once and for all, the commitment to universal access to high capacity networks is fulfilled, a basic resource to ensure equal access to basic services and to guarantee entrepreneurship by giving priority to rural and less populated areas, where the greatest digital gap occurs. we must understand that the modernisation of e-government is as necessary as the adaptation of traditional industries to new technologies. we also call for concrete actions to advance digital skills acquisition at all levels: older people, but also public servants and entrepreneurs. it is very worrying that many companies have difficulty finding qualified staff in new technologies and often have to resort to experts from outside their countries to fill vacancies in certain specialisations. equally worrying is the talent flight that occurs in certain areas due to lack of digital resources. we therefore call for more ambitious targets to be set and, in particular, for the presentation of a digital action plan at european level, with short, medium and long-term objectives. the european budget and next generation eu funds are the timely injection that this digital transformation needs. the european union must be a leading power in this economic transformation and do so in a fair and cohesive way. we must not miss this great opportunity to make it a reality. i would like to end by expressing my sincere thanks to all the alternative rapporteurs who have taken part in this report for their valuable and interesting contributions to it.
mr president, you know that the relevant bodies, both the bureau of parliament and the conference of presidents, have this item on their agenda. you know that the current rules will run until the 13th and that yesterday in the bureau we discussed the next procedure which will undoubtedly lead to a further opening. we shall take it step by step and implement the necessary decisions. we are also very much prepared to talk to the medical service of the house and to the legal service, but also to all the political groups, about how we are going to proceed here. the president of the commission, mr delors, has already said that he will not be present at the next partsession.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs sandra kalniete, on behalf of the special committee on foreign influence on all democratic processes in the european union, including disinformation (2020/2268 (ini)) (a9-0022/2022).
rapporteur. – mr president, today, europe faces two major, transformative crises which will shape our future for many years to come – the covid—19 pandemic and russia’s unprovoked, brutal war against ukraine. there is one crucial, dark, vicious common denominator for both – the widespread, coordinated and systematic spread of hostile and targeted disinformation. since we have discussed several times the consequences of covid—19 disinformation campaigns, today i will concentrate more on the kremlin’s propaganda machinery working in overdrive to justify putin’s unprovoked act of aggression, shredding of international law and sending thousands of russian people to an irrational and deadly war. and let’s call a spade a spade. putin’s propaganda machinery was not ‘turned on’ only on february 24th, it has been working in europe for decades already, attempting to poison and divide our societies. with all this in mind, we have arrived at the moment of truth to ask a frank question – how did the democratic world get to this point? and how we can prevent it in the future? this is exactly the task of our report, which will be voted today, and i invite everyone to appreciate the great urgency of the moment. dear members of the house, the report identifies and maps the threat of foreign interference in all of its forms, including disinformation, manipulation of social media platforms and advertising systems, cyber—attacks, threats against and the harassment of journalists, covert political funding and elite capture and co-optation. in other words, this report both provides the diagnosis of the eu’s vulnerabilities and prescribes the medication for strengthening the eu’s resilience. a few words about platforms and data markets. we have to shed light on the black box of social media platforms: we need truly binding eu rules for algorithms for accountability and transparency, particularly when it comes to the demonetisation of harmful content and data accountability. today, while the war is ongoing in europe, online platforms and tech companies need to take a stand by proactively suspending accounts engaged in denying, glorifying and justifying aggression, war crimes and crimes against humanity. they have to reinforce content in russian and ukrainian languages to resist the pressure from russian government’s disinformation. in short, any tech platform complying with putin’s censorship request is an accomplice to putin’s aggression. i would also like to highlight the need for data market accountability and transparency, including binding eu rules to limit the amount of data platforms can harvest, store and sell. it is completely unacceptable that loosely, regulated commercial entities can sell data of europeans, me, you, all of us to the same authoritarian regimes that are trying to tear us apart. about resilience, we see that the kremlin is attempting to insulate, wall off the russian information space, by imposing new censorship rules. this shows that putin is threatened by any independent media and narrative. this is a clear signal that we should double, triple and quadruple our support for quality and independent media, including in the eu’s neighbourhood. the kremlin is also operating with extensive cyber warfare tools. that’s why we need to step up cybersecurity assistance to ukraine, deploying there cyber rapid response team experts and using the eu cyber sanctions regime against individuals, entities and bodies responsible or involved in the various cyber—attacks targeting ukraine. the resilience of our societies is absolutely key here. we must not allow any malicious actor to exploit our freedoms. therefore, resilience, awareness and media literacy must be built up as our protective shields. another factor weakening our resilience is foreign covert funding, elite capture and co—optation. for decades, we have watched former high—ranking european officials and politicians take up prominent positions on russian energy companies, while we were channelling hundreds of millions into putin’s coffers and providing safe haven for his cronies and oligarchs. look where that has gotten us. we, with our euros, have effectively built and financed putin’s war machine, which is now being used to slaughter innocent ukrainians. if we don’t turn off the flow of gas and oil ‘golden river’ now, then we deserve the full consequences of our greed and sorry stupidity. and to conclude, dear colleagues, i was harsh, but i am convinced that we across the political groups, together with the member states and the commission, can move forward towards implementation of the report’s recommendations with utmost urgency. and i would like warmly to thank all my shadows, chair of the committee and secretariat and our councillors.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. – mr president, dear members of the committee, dear members of the european parliament attending this debate, we are witnessing how the russian assault on ukraine continues, and this assault painfully highlights why we need to pay more attention to foreign interference and, in particular, to foreign disinformation and information manipulation. this poses a clear threat to our democracy, to our stability, to our security, and we need to address it. so i therefore much welcome your report and the work of the special committee on foreign interference. information manipulation and interference is something that russia’s propaganda machine is actively using. accompanying their military campaign in ukraine, russia is spreading false information among their own population about why this invasion has taken place and which is the situation in ukraine. over weeks, much before the invasion started, the kremlin outlets had been preparing the ground by reversing the cause and consequences of this aggression and portraying russia and russian people as a kind of a victim, saying ‘ukraine is committing genocide’, ‘zelenskyy is a criminal, is a puppet on the hands of the western people’, and when they come to kyiv, they will do a second nuremberg in order to clean ukraine of the nazis who are committing genocide against the russian people. these are the kind of things that they are systematically spreading far and wide, undermining the legitimacy of the democratically elected ukrainian government, presenting them as a result of a coup d’état. it came to power, not through elections, but through a coup d’état. he’s a criminal, is a war criminal, is a nazi, is a dictator and also distorting historical facts. well, history can be interpreted in very different ways. but to consider that zelenskyy is a war criminal, a nazi who is committing genocide against the russian people, is not a matter of historical interpretation. the kremlin and its outlets are systematically lying about the situation, about the military situation and about the suffering of the ukrainian population. they claim systematically that the ukrainian authorities are bombing their own citizens or provoking nuclear incidents in order to blame russia systematically. this kind of news is widespread. also, the alleged russia-phobia that the state-affiliated media report is another thing that people in russia listen to. let me say once again, that measures are against the russian leadership, not against the russian people and the current situation is a result of president putin’s actions. and, if he wants, he can solve it by just stopping the war. the state media and the ecosystem around them are being used as an instrument to push this narrative, to manipulate and mislead, and they are an integral part of the aggression. it’s not just bombing the houses, the infrastructure, the bodies of the people. they are bombing their minds, they are bombing their spirits. and the russian leadership is cracking down on independent media, on civil society, it has banned twitter, it has banned facebook and a number of foreign media from operating in russia. the kremlin has introduced a law criminalising what they call ‘fake information’ about the war in ukraine. it can cause you 15 years’ jail, targeting also international journalists, which are doing their vital work in russia. as a consequence it has deprived of russian citizens of any access to independent media, independent information about what’s happening in ukraine and how the russian armed forces are behaving. so russia is moving towards complete isolation of its citizens from information coming from the outside world. they are putting them in a bubble, isolating in order not to allow them to know what’s happening. the international community has come together in response to president putin’s senseless war in a coordinated and active manner, and i am very proud to see that the european union has been able to show its capacity to deliver on this file also, and we have been able to do that because we are not coming from scratch, it comes to 2015 when leaders of the european union recognised the threat, offering information and misinformation streaming from russia. 2015 is seven years ago. and then they specifically tasked the high representative to address this challenge. and we created in the external action service teams of people, capacities and expertise that have been developed in the last seven years, allowing us to take today’s decisive steps to tackle this issue. we have built a strong stratcom team, which is doing, i think, an excellent work – you will judge it – has been praised in your report, thank you for that. we have been strengthening our proactive public communication to provide actual information, not least through our european union versus disinformation website, which exposes the kremlin narrative. go to this website, use our eu versus disinformation website and you will find there registered hundreds of misinformation cases in countries, european, in germany, in the uk, in france, in italy and spain, targeting a variety of issues like elections, vaccines, about brexit or about the secessionist movement in some european member states. we have increased our cooperation with partners like nato and the g7 to understand how the kremlin destabilises and manipulates information, weakening ukraine and our western resolve. we have a rapid-alert system that has proven its importance, allowing to swiftly share with european union institutions, with my colleagues from the commission – with whom we are working closely and positively, thank you – with our member states and also partners, finding analysis and debunking material. i insist, please, widespread existence of this web where hundreds of cases can be found. we have intensified our work to help our partners in the region to tackle the issue of interference and information manipulation, especially in the western balkans, which are currently being targeted systematically by these campaigns. and most importantly, we have imposed costs on the perpetrators, including through banning russia today and sputnik from broadcasting in the european union because they are not independent media. they are assets. they are weapons in the kremlin’s manipulation ecosystem. and i want to stop here because there has been criticism saying that we are attempting against the freedom of information. let’s consider what is information and what these outlets are. let me take a moment to underline the essence of this issue. we are not trying to decide what is true and what is false. i am not the minister of the truth. we don’t have ministers of the truth. what we have to focus on is foreign actors who intentionally, in a coordinated manner, try to manipulate that information environment, to advance their own purposes and to harm us. allow me to say that in spanish because it will be more direct to your mind. la democracia es un sistema que funciona con base en la información. la información es el combustible de la democracia. los ciudadanos actúan como ciudadanos basándose en la información que reciben. basándose en lo que saben, interpretan la realidad, juzgan a sus gobernantes y deciden su voto. la democracia es un sistema cuyo combustible es la información. si la información es mala, la democracia es mala. si la información está sistemáticamente sesgada y contaminada por la mentira, los ciudadanos no pueden tener cabal conocimiento de la realidad y su juicio político está sesgado. por eso tenemos que defender que la información sea un bien protegido. cuando usted va a comprar carne en un supermercado, tiene garantías sobre la calidad de ese producto para evitar que consumirlo le produzca una enfermedad. tiene que haber, también, alguna clase de garantía para que la información no sea un elemento que contamine las mentes. la democracia funciona con la información y por eso rusia ha creado sputnik. sputnik no es un inocente medio que tiene una determinada visión de la realidad. sputnik is not a media that understands things, in a way. sputnik was created by a russian presidential decree with the aim to report on the state policy of russia abroad. and according to its editor-in-chief, russia today is capable of conducting an information war against the whole western world, and both channels facilitate and engage in cyber-facilitated influence operations, including those that have been attributed to the russian military intelligence – the famous gru. and to be able to respond equally with quick and decisive action in the future, i will propose a new mechanism that will allow us to sanction those malign disinformation actors. this will be part of a broader toolbox that we are currently working on to further enhance our capacity to act. this toolbox will be structured across four cross-cutting dimensions improving our situational awareness. first, to build up our resilience and our partners by stepping up support to independent media and civil society in third countries, and bolstering the strategic communication capacities of our delegations. being that a tool of foreign policy, i am always talking about third countries. it is my colleagues from the commission who are working inside the european union territories, but there is a lot of work to do in order to support our partners around the world. second, to ensure disruption of malign activities and regulatory responses to them. the code of practice and the digital services act, on which vice—president jourová will say more, are crucial elements in this regard. i am not going to go deeper on this code of practice and digital services because vice-president jourová knows more than i about it. and last but not least, a continuing diplomatic response and instruments within the common foreign and security policy. within our foreign policy, we have to introduce the battle about information since the beginning of the pandemic. i coined the sentence ‘battle of narrative’, and this battle of narrative is every day more important. look what’s happening in africa, what do you think? people are influenced by what they have been told. and at the end, it goes up to the political scale, and finally it converts into votes on the international institutions. this brings me to the report by the special committee for foreign interference in all democratic processes in the eu, including disinformation (inge), which i welcome so much. this report shows appreciation of the work that my service has been doing and constantly expanding since we received this mandate from the council in 2015. and i want to assure you that we take your recommendations very much into account, including your proposal for new structures to make our work even more efficient and sustainable. i thank you a lot for your support. you have been very much supporting our strategic communication teams devoted to the balkans, devoted to the eastern border, and now, unhappily, they are so much in the news. thank you for your support. we work together. this is a critical battle for democracy. once again, allow me to say democracy is a system that works on the basis of the information that citizens have, that’s why we have to protect the freedom of information and to fight against disinformation.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the rapporteur and thank you to the high representative. russia's unjustified attack violates international law and jeopardises our collective security in europe. you have rightly pointed out that we need to protect ourselves against hybrid attacks and increase the resilience of our cyber systems. we must also continue to fight disinformation, and we will continue to do so in the coming months. i would like to thank you for inviting the presidency of the council to participate in this debate on a very important issue which touches on many aspects and is at the heart of our priorities. we commend the inge special committee for the substantial work it has accomplished since its creation in 2020. the council followed the discussions closely and appreciates the wide range of experts invited to the meetings of this committee, in the lead-up to the preparation of this report. i would like to thank the high representative for the initiatives that he has put in place and the information that he has just shared. foreign interference, in all its forms, and the manipulation of information increasingly threaten our democratic processes and institutions and have a direct impact on our societies. it is essential that we continue our joint efforts to combat these phenomena in a timely and unambiguous manner. we all know that the security landscape in europe has changed considerably in recent days. in the context of the russian aggression against ukraine, information manipulation campaigns and cyberattacks are an important element of the conflict. within the european union, as your committee's work shows, several state actors, including russia in the first place, are making extensive use of these tools with the aim of destabilising our societies and discrediting our democratic processes. in the face of these phenomena, the first priority is to continue to remove the democratic barriers in our societies, to strengthen the pluralism and independence of the media, to develop digital literacy for all young and old people and to teach them to search for reliable information on the internet, and to raise awareness among the population of the risks of cognitive manipulation to which they may be exposed online, including through the use of new technologies. we also need to build our resilience to attacks on our it systems. the presidency is therefore committed to a swift and ambitious revision of the directive on measures to ensure a high common level of cybersecurity across the union. it is crucial in the current context that the eu institutions, agencies and bodies also raise their level of protection against cyberattacks. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. this is one of the key issues in the proposed digital services bill. finally, further action is needed to combat interference in electoral processes. the proposals under consideration for the revision of the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and for the regulation of political advertising could contribute to this. these measures are necessary to counter foreign interference in democratic processes in a comprehensive manner and it is time to act. we need to put new rules in place as quickly as possible and we also need to be able to make the best use of the wide range of tools we already have. only by working together can we properly protect our democracies, and this is a challenge that the presidency and the council are ready to take up.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all, i would like to thank mrs kalniete and the inta committee members for their important work throughout the last year and a half, as well as their comprehensive report. our hearts and minds are in ukraine, watching the war unfold before our eyes. we know that this disinformation and foreign interference has been part of russia’s military doctrine for decades. in fact, russia was systematically preparing all of us for this to happen. also, all the attacks through disinformation against ukraine, which josep described here, were preparing public opinion for this aggression. we can also see that the playbook is not all new, and those of you who remember the times of the soviet union, like i do, know that the truth was the greatest enemy of this oppressive regime. now we see the laws from 4 march – 15 years of prison for telling people the truth or for delivering objective facts. president putin wants his nation to be blind and deaf. more than that, president putin, i think, would like the russian people to be apathetic. that’s why i am so glad that yesterday netflix decided to withdraw from the country because president putin wants the people to be entertained, not to pay attention to what’s happening. my response is that i welcome this decision by netflix, because it would not be right to see russians being entertained and, next door, ukrainians being killed. so we have to look at the situation in its complexity and be able to act. we have to act on several different fronts. we are working with joseph borrell on the issue of disinformation. he has increased the capacities of east stratcom and experts are now working day and night on detecting the disinformation coming from the russian side. this is not new. we have seen this already for a long time. in fact, the intensity of the russian disinformation increased rapidly after the annexation of crimea. as part of our response to the russian invasion, we must be united on this front, on working together, all of us – governments, citizens and the private sector, including the big-tech companies, which are also covered in the report. the only response to putin’s aggression is unity. yesterday, i visited the council of ministers of culture and media with thierry breton, and there is a very strong agreement to join forces to fight disinformation and to support independent media. we listened to a very strong speech by oleksandr tkachenko, who is the minister of culture of ukraine, with a strong call to action and we received a to-do list on how to react, and we should follow this. we should react. also, last week, we spoke with the ceos of youtube and google – i was with thierry breton – and i’m glad that the big-tech companies want to be on the right side of history. this is my feeling from my talks with them, but they have to do more. extreme times require dedicated answers. this is why we took temporary, restrictive measures to immediately restrict the access to russian broadcasting services – russia today and sputnik, in the european union – and josep was very clear, explaining why: these outlets are part of a concerted campaign of information manipulation and disinformation, being tools in bringing forward and supporting russia’s aggression. it is more important than ever to reach the russian people and provide them with information. every possible channel should be used. if you have a chance to use such a channel, if you have some people-to-people contact, let’s use them. it was very impressive when the nobel prize winner, svetlana alexievich, called at the weekend on all the people who speak russian to try their channels, to speak, to address the russian people and to get them out of this apathetic situation. our strategic approach outlined in the european democracy action plan is designed to tackle these issues and to minimise the impact of disinformation and other negative factors on the strengths of our democracy and our system. for the first time at european level, we have created a comprehensive agenda to strengthen the resilience of our democracies, ensure fair and free elections, support the media sector and defend against disinformation in order to also make our societies more resilient and better prepared for the challenges of the future. the plan builds on tangible measures and structures, notably through the first code of practice on disinformation, the rapid alert system and the european digital media observatory, and we now move to another gear. this includes the upgraded code of practice against disinformation. we are finishing the work with the signatories. we have very high requests, or demanding requests, as to what should be in the code. we have also adopted new legislation on the transparency of political advertising and measures to support media, including through the media freedom act. as josep has explained, there is also a toolbox for countering foreign interference, with instruments to impose costs on perpetrators, on which we are intensely working closely together. also, eu member states have invested heavily in their own framework and structures to respond to this threat, working closely with european institutions. here i have to say that the baltic sea countries are always at the forefront, trying to convince the rest of europe that there is something serious happening because they feel first-hand that russian disinformation can have the potential to destroy our society and our peaceful coexistence in our community. so let’s listen to those who have experience and who have good instincts. this is not the time to underestimate these things. the member states are on the case. i really see increased activity in all the member states, not only in those of central and eastern europe. let me emphasise a point stressed in the report: independent media and journalists are a key pillar of a functioning democracy. dmitry muratov, the nobel peace prize winner and the editor-in-chief of novaya gazeta, said that journalists are the antidote against tyranny. we need strong and independent media in europe, and we see that there is a negative trend. they are under economic pressure, so we need to introduce measures on how to protect media freedom and pluralism better in europe. that’s why i am now working on the anti-slapp legislation to be adopted by the commission at the end of april and on the already—mentioned media freedom act to be adopted by – probably – the end of june. we have a lot of work ahead of us because i hear voices from the member states that the eu should not regulate on media. i am of the opposite opinion. also, i welcome that the report highlights the importance of having an effective oversight and control mechanism for online platforms, putting emphasis on the need to address raising issues related to disinformation on their services quickly and efficiently. so, we see that the digital services act is now at full speed in the legislative process, and also the code of practice. we will want to have a strong and robust framework for the digital services act, as legally binding rules, and the code of practice as a complementary voluntary measure. the code of practice is the voluntary measure, and self-regulatory instrument which is the first ever in the world to fight disinformation. it has proven to be a useful instrument, but the one we came up with in 2018 was not strong and sufficient enough, and that’s why we are upgrading it now. we are in regular contact with the signatories and i can assure you that intensive work is ongoing. i will personally want to be sure that the platforms support these objectives with commitments backed by the highest level of management. just imagine what we want from the platforms. we want them to do a proper job: steps against disinformation in all member states, understanding all member states’ languages and all member states’ historical context. this will require capacities and money, and this is what we want them to do. finally, another key initiative is the proposed regulation on transparency and targeting of political advertising. i count on your support and i believe that the european parliament will engage quickly in the work on all these proposals, including this new one on political advertising. madam kalniete, honourable members, let me thank you once again for the comprehensive report. it will provide policymakers with important recommendations on how to strengthen the eu’s capability and capacities to tackle the threat of foreign information, manipulation and interference, as well as disinformation. i am convinced that our joint work and your dedication will make our response to disinformation much stronger and effective.
madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report and these statements show very clearly that we feel that we know that we see how serious, how dangerous and how sensitive the situation is and that we are aware of our responsibility.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, hybrid war is war, and it is in the light of the war that russia has declared that we have to read this report as russian tanks roll into ukrainian territory, let’s not forget that the invasion has been paid by disinformation, interference and cyber-attacks. this report, which has been brilliantly produced by sandra kalniete, is a major and timely contribution to the protection of democratic institutions. it is based on conclusions and findings of experts and researchers but it is a political document demanding political action. the invasion of ukraine is a wake-up call, and we need to raise awareness of the challenge of a structural confrontation with russia as the main threat to our security. we simply cannot tolerate the extension of russian influence, and this report shows how to prevent it. we have enemies. the european union has been targeted. we know that russia, whatever the concrete attribution might be, is always there ready to destabilise, be it in brexit or in the secessionist move by catalan nationalists or covid-19. so funding of populist and extremist parties did capture anti-european narratives. the state-owned media, which by no means deserve to be called journalism, are components of a reality that we have to face up to. and it is high time to act, stepping up the efforts and the shared commitment of member states and european institutions.
madam president, i would like to thank raphaël glucksmann for his initiative and leadership and the work of mrs kalniete and the alternative rapporteurs, including my colleague andreas schieder. i would like to comment on an aspect which i have insisted on during my work on the committee, namely the interference in the electoral process. electoral processes: not on election day, not even during the campaign, but during the long period of an electoral process, because, as i have explained on many occasions during my election observation, democracy is what happens between elections, and a correct election does not save an electoral process in which there has not been a level playing field. it is something that illiberal regimes aim at a lot, pretending that the urn cures everything. the interference in electoral processes, of which we have plenty of examples, is particularly dangerous for many reasons. first, because the aim is to have an immediate effect on the votes of the citizens, to condition them. but the second objective is to delegitimize our electoral processes. there is no need to tamper with an electoral count, as casting doubt on the cleanliness of an election contributes to that very objective. it is a mechanism based, moreover, on the fact that not all citizens follow the policy on a daily basis. many citizens re-engage in politics when an election period comes around and at that time, when there is more appetite for political information, there is greater vulnerability. we need to adapt our election observation mechanisms to this new type of growing threat, more discreet than published disinformation, because it's information based on profiling that ends up on every citizen's mobile phone and is harder to track. so let us use all our arsenal to fight against malicious interference, also and especially during the electoral processes.
madam president, regimes like putin's russia or maduro's venezuela are attacking our nations and infiltrating our system: from funding podemos to the kremlin's contacts with the separatists in catalonia. but there are also foreign interference, the lobbies that want to cancel our culture, our religion and our way of life, and those that have held us hostage to russian or algerian gas with their insane energy transition. we spaniards know this well: we have communism infiltrated in the government. if we say that ukrainian women and children fleeing the war are real refugees, but not the thousands of military-age men storming the southern border in collaboration with ngos or mafias, we don't need any subsidized verifier, or any mega-billionaire social network imposing censorship. if you want to turn the union into a censorship space, you cannot count on our vote. if you're going over the edge, go alone. we have to defend our energy, food and military sovereignty, but not only from communism, but also from islamism, from false climateism, from immigration or from the insane agenda 2030. i know that one day you will join us. i know, but the only thing that makes me doubt is if, when they do, it'll be too late.
madam president, madam commissioner, madam minister, since the beginning of the russian invasion of ukraine, one and a half million people have fled to neighbouring countries and the unhcr estimates that this figure could rise to four million. in the face of this great humanitarian challenge, the european union is at last rising to the occasion by activating the temporary protection directive for the first time. i would remind you that the greens/efa group has already called for this activation, but without success, in crises such as syria or afghanistan. millions of people are leaving their lives behind under putin's bombs. and in the face of this cruelty, europe has no choice: we must be a refuge. that said, i think it's time to ask ourselves some questions that may have uncomfortable answers. let's ask ourselves why we are now committed to a humanitarian response and why we were not in past conflicts. let us ask ourselves why, as the unhcr acknowledges, cases of racial discrimination are being detected on the border of ukraine with the union. let us ask ourselves why, while we embraced our ukrainian brothers, we were beating our sub-saharan brothers with clubs at the melilla border this weekend. the answer is as hard as it is clear. and it's in the color of the skin. discrimination on grounds of race, religion or immigration status is unacceptable. solidarity is a fundamental value that has no exceptions. we all have the right to escape the horrors of war and poverty. the conflict with ukraine is breaking down several taboos. let us use this moment to move towards a lasting asylum policy, which puts solidarity and human rights first. a community policy that makes refuge one of europe's great strengths.
madam president, europe is now facing a total crisis, a crisis which will decide its fate. this is not a made-up crisis, like the alarms and catastrophes that the european union has invented to fuel its ideological questions over the last decades and to invent priorities that went behind the backs of the european population. we are facing an endless tragedy, an aggression, and the heroism of the ukrainians has led us to see what they really are, what reality is and what the necessary change of priorities is that europe must make. i would like to express my solidarity with the heroic ukrainians defending their homeland, with the russians who are being repressed under putin's tyranny, with the belarusians and all the countries, and in particular with poland, which, despite being harassed by the european union in recent years, is showing infinite generosity and which must be helped in relation to the millions of refugees fleeing president putin's barbaric offensive.
madam president, madam commissioner, this change of direction in eu asylum policy is certainly good news. for the first time since it was adopted 20 years ago, the temporary protection directive is being activated, which now allows us to take in people fleeing the war in ukraine. this shows that, when there is political will, europe can open legal and safe pathways and articulate mechanisms for dignified reception for those who need it. and that in just two weeks, we have received over two million refugees, more than double the number in 2015. it also shows that there is another possible and necessary approach to the european pact on migration and asylum: one based on respect for human rights. however, we deeply regret that the council has decided not to include longterm residents and other residents such as african and middle eastern students in direct protection. we must remember that protection and the right to asylum must not be limited by the colour of the skin or by origin.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the more than two million refugees who have fled ukraine to date need our help and we therefore welcome the temporary protection directive, which gives access to residence, education and the eu labour market, as we have been calling for since 2015. this reflects that, when there is political will, the european union is an open place for people fleeing war and persecution. in these 13 days, we have taken in more refugees than in the 2015 migration crisis. there is therefore a more humane way of proceeding than the european commission's pact on immigration and asylum, which is limited to organising returns and reducing the rights of those who eventually arrive in the union. all asylum seekers and their fundamental rights must be respected in the same way - in the same way! - regardless of their nationality and country of origin: whether they come from ukraine or syria or afghanistan, whether they are neighbours or not, whether they are christians or not, whether they are white or not, they are people fleeing from war and horror. i am a basque from the nation that suffered the bombing of guernica and we are a host country and against war, always turned to the reception of refugees. always, you know? and that is why we denounce the hypocrisy of poland, which two months ago closed its border with belarus to afghan and iraqi refugees and let them freeze to death, while now - and this is a matter of good judgment - it is welcoming ukrainian refugees. it is a hypocritical and racist act, unsuitable for a european state.
mr president, the unacceptable russian invasion of ukraine, based on its imperialist rivalry with the united states, nato and the european union, is today, among other things, driving millions of people into exile with tragic consequences. previously, over 10 million ukrainian migrants were forced to leave their country after the dissolution of the soviet union, having seen firsthand that unemployment and poverty are synonymous with capitalism and not socialism, as claimed by the ukrainian bourgeoisie, the european union, the us and nato. the european union and the bourgeois classes of the member states are exposed to a wide range of refugee situations, and refugees, for example from syria, afghanistan and iraq, face repression, deportation, repatriation and prison superstructures, while in the case of ukrainian refugees the criterion is that of the cheapest and most easily integrated flexible manpower for business profits, including in the greek tourist industry. the other side of the same capitalist barbarity. solidarity with all ukrainian refugees, including russian-speaking ones, for genuine support for their reception in humane conditions, with guarantees of their rights to asylum, health, education and work.
mr president, mr commissioner, putin is savagely attacking ukraine and threatening europe and the world. it is an international danger and the european union is responding unitedly with firmness and solidarity. today, i want to ask you to think about refugees, and especially about children, the most precious treasure of a family. i am spanish and my country has been one of the countries that has been taking in more chernobyl children for years to help them improve their health in view of the effects of the 1986 nuclear accident. and we can't just walk away from them. i am the mother of an eleven-year-old boy and i cannot imagine the pain that parents suffer when they see in their children's eyes the fear caused by the terror of a tyrant. there are many children with cancer in ukraine who, because of the war, are putting their lives in even greater danger by not being able to receive medicines and treatment. i ask the commission and the council to support the initiative that we are coordinating with the members of this parliament's beca committee to send medicines to ukraine, to transfer children with cancer to european hospitals and to ensure that these treatments are financed. we ask for safe corridors to the european union, to freedom, and not for dungeons designed by putin. i think of all the fathers and especially today, the mothers on international women's day. of those ukrainian women who have stayed behind to defend the best country for their children and those who decided to leave to protect them from attacks. all of them brave. we are here to protect lives, defend freedom and build the best european union.
mr president, today we once again express our deepest solidarity with the ukrainian people and condemn putin's invasion of ukraine. and to help the ukrainian people, the russian people, too, who do not agree with this invasion, and the european citizens, who also suffer its consequences, we must put all our efforts into building peace as soon as possible. and that is not done by escalation or by sending weapons; it is done by promoting international mediation that is able to take care of and build the difficult path that is negotiation and lasting peace. today we need to put in place an ambitious reception programme, establish safe humanitarian corridors and continue to send humanitarian aid and deepen the refugee measures so that all those fleeing ukraine, as well as those retaliated against by russia, can be protected. today we see that when there is a will, europe protects. the implementation of the temporary protection directive in ukraine should be the norm in conflicts, but we need more: reforming the common european asylum system and creating a common human rights-based asylum system and agency. we do not want any more violations of human rights in ukraine, nor do we want any more violations by frontex or any more morias or any more unresourced centres on the southern border, as in the canary islands. all lives matter.
mr. president, the infamy of which vladimir putin is capable knows no bounds. the russian army has targeted the ukrainian civilian population and its artillery fires indiscriminately at humanitarian corridors. the cruelty is so great that the red cross discovered yesterday that the evacuation routes from the city of mariupol were full of mines. attacking civilians is simply a matter of war crimes and the european union must ensure that those who commit these heinous acts will one day stand before a court precisely to be judged. but until that day comes, we must help ukrainian civilians defend themselves. that is why it is absolutely outrageous that there are still members in this house who are opposed to aiding ukraine with arms. ladies and gentlemen, let us not be cowards with words, but brave with deeds and give the ukrainians the weapons they need to defend themselves. i'm going to the ukrainian slava!
in writing. the aggression of russia is a barbarity which has awakened political europe and has made the union act quickly, unitedly and in solidarity, breaking dogmas and taboos. because, in the face of dictatorship, european democracy will win. for the spanish socialists, the eu must be a land of welcome without borders, welcoming all refugees in solidarity, without discrimination, whatever their sex, race or religion. the activation of the temporary protection directive is a huge step forward in protecting the ukrainian population and in particular women and children. but we must ensure a fair distribution of refugees by providing relief to the frontline countries, as well as binding resettlement programmes coordinated by the european commission. finally, we socialists want special protection measures to be introduced to prevent women and girls from falling into the hands of human traffickers.
in writing. the aggression of russia is a barbarity which has awakened political europe and has made the union act quickly, unitedly and in solidarity, breaking dogmas and taboos. because, in the face of dictatorship, european democracy will win. for the spanish socialists, the eu must be a land of welcome without borders, welcoming all refugees in solidarity, without discrimination, whatever their sex, race or religion. the activation of the temporary protection directive is a huge step forward in protecting the ukrainian population and in particular women and children. but we must ensure a fair distribution of refugees by providing relief to the frontline countries, as well as binding resettlement programmes coordinated by the european commission. finally, we socialists want special protection measures to be introduced to prevent women and girls from falling into the hands of human traffickers.
in writing. the aggression of russia is a barbarity which has awakened political europe and has made the union act quickly, unitedly and in solidarity, breaking dogmas and taboos. because, in the face of dictatorship, european democracy will win. for the spanish socialists, the eu must be a land of welcome without borders, welcoming all refugees in solidarity, without discrimination, whatever their sex, race or religion. the activation of the temporary protection directive is a huge step forward in protecting the ukrainian population and in particular women and children. but we must ensure a fair distribution of refugees by providing relief to the frontline countries, as well as binding resettlement programmes coordinated by the european commission. finally, we socialists want special protection measures to be introduced to prevent women and girls from falling into the hands of human traffickers.
in writing. the aggression of russia is a barbarity which has awakened political europe and has made the union act quickly, unitedly and in solidarity, breaking dogmas and taboos. because, in the face of dictatorship, european democracy will win. for the spanish socialists, the eu must be a land of welcome without borders, welcoming all refugees in solidarity, without discrimination, whatever their sex, race or religion. the activation of the temporary protection directive is a huge step forward in protecting the ukrainian population and in particular women and children. but we must ensure a fair distribution of refugees by providing relief to the frontline countries, as well as binding resettlement programmes coordinated by the european commission. finally, we socialists want special protection measures to be introduced to prevent women and girls from falling into the hands of human traffickers.
in writing. the aggression of russia is a barbarity which has awakened political europe and has made the union act quickly, unitedly and in solidarity, breaking dogmas and taboos. because, in the face of dictatorship, european democracy will win. for the spanish socialists, the eu must be a land of welcome without borders, welcoming all refugees in solidarity, without discrimination, whatever their sex, race or religion. the activation of the temporary protection directive is a huge step forward in protecting the ukrainian population and in particular women and children. but we must ensure a fair distribution of refugees by providing relief to the frontline countries, as well as binding resettlement programmes coordinated by the european commission. finally, we socialists want special protection measures to be introduced to prevent women and girls from falling into the hands of human traffickers.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, madam energy commissioner, i take the commission's words to heart: we must become independent of russian gas. however, you and i know that to respond to this emergency it is not enough to reduce dependence; it is also essential to change their rules of the game for price fixing, their failed marginalist market model, which, by the way, they dare not touch. let me give you an example: in my country, right now, around eight o'clock in the evening, we are going to pay 700 euros per megawatt hour, even though only 1 percent of electricity generation is directly dependent on russian gas. blackmail is possible because the energy market in europe is designed to inflate the profits of the big power companies. that is why diversifying the gas source is not enough. we urgently need a paradigm shift that reinforces our energy sovereignty so that it is renewable and fair and under public control. we need a model that prevents us from being held hostage and makes it impossible for the price of energy in europe to be determined by putin from his office.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, believe me, it is difficult to come here and talk about energy prices while ukraine is under attack, but our stability and our unity also depend on social peace, and this depends on energy prices. today we welcome some of the measures - we have called for them, i have called for them on this platform and my country has called for them - because they are positive measures to address energy prices and our dependence on russian gas. the extraordinary profits were supposed to amount to some 220 billion euros this year, and they were not going to be directed entirely to renewables; it is therefore good to reduce them and use them to lower the receipts of citizens. but there is still work to be done: we still have to completely decouple electricity prices from gas prices, and we shall see, and we shall see, commissioner, how that measure arrives here in the coming weeks, because the need will make it possible, but, in any case, i want to say thank you, that we are going in the right direction and that the joint purchase of gas and all the measures to be less dependent on russian gas and to move forward in the promotion of renewable energies are the measures that europe needs.
mr president, commissioner, we in europe cannot continue to accept our dependence on russian gas as inevitable. after the historic escalation of the last few days, it is urgent to prevent gas from being used as a political weapon. commissioner, we need concrete measures to alleviate the electricity bill of households and businesses which are today paying an unacceptable record price. we asked him for a proposal to temporarily change the energy pricing system. in times of war, extraordinary measures are needed to stop putin's blackmail once and for all. and we also have to address another of our great weaknesses: the lack of energy interconnections. in that sense, i believe that spain can and must play a key role in this crisis. today i have sent a letter to the government of my country asking it to take back the midcat project for the interconnection with france. we have a great capacity for regasification and a direct connection with africa; not to bet decisively on this would be irresponsible for the whole of europe.
mr president, commissioner, at this very moment in spain we are paying for the most expensive electricity in history: 700 euros per megawatt hour. congratulations to those who applauded greta thunberg, that sullen girl who is received with honors as head of state; to those who put the multicolored rosette of the 2030 agenda on the lapel, to those who voted in favor of the green pact, objective 55, resilient europe and the gender perspective in the cap. they have succeeded; they have brought the working classes of europe to a collapse: the price of electricity soared, gasoline soared, unemployment soared. the few who work: precarious jobs and low wages. thousands of military-age young men at the gates of the southern border and the highest inflation in years. they've got it. i suppose the power company lobby, on behalf of the planet, will thank you for that pricing system and that speculative market for co2 emission rights in which only they win. energy sovereignty, you know? we must not give up any capacity or source of energy: hydraulic, thermal, solar, wind, nuclear... energy sovereignty: the nation above the lobby. if you do not give up your prejudices, you condemn the future of europe, and if you do not, we will.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has accentuated the increase in energy prices, something we have been suffering since mid-summer 2021. wholesale prices of fossil gas have skyrocketed to unacceptable levels. these prices are forecast to remain high until 2023. this, in turn, is infecting wholesale electricity markets. high wholesale prices continue to drive up retail gas and electricity prices. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this will affect the purchasing power of eu consumers, smes and industry. but, especially, it will have a massive impact on vulnerable households. as a consequence, energy poverty is likely to increase. we, the socialists in parliament, are in favour of the need for solutions to deal with the rise in energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has accentuated the increase in energy prices, something we have been suffering since mid-summer 2021. wholesale prices of fossil gas have skyrocketed to unacceptable levels. these prices are forecast to remain high until 2023. this, in turn, is infecting wholesale electricity markets. high wholesale prices continue to drive up retail gas and electricity prices. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this will affect the purchasing power of eu consumers, smes and industry. but, especially, it will have a massive impact on vulnerable households. as a consequence, energy poverty is likely to increase. we, the socialists in parliament, are in favour of the need for solutions to deal with the rise in energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has accentuated the increase in energy prices, something we have been suffering since mid-summer 2021. wholesale prices of fossil gas have skyrocketed to unacceptable levels. these prices are forecast to remain high until 2023. this, in turn, is infecting wholesale electricity markets. high wholesale prices continue to drive up retail gas and electricity prices. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this will affect the purchasing power of eu consumers, smes and industry. but, especially, it will have a massive impact on vulnerable households. as a consequence, energy poverty is likely to increase. we, the socialists in parliament, are in favour of the need for solutions to deal with the rise in energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has accentuated the increase in energy prices, something we have been suffering since mid-summer 2021. wholesale prices of fossil gas have skyrocketed to unacceptable levels. these prices are forecast to remain high until 2023. this, in turn, is infecting wholesale electricity markets. high wholesale prices continue to drive up retail gas and electricity prices. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this will affect the purchasing power of eu consumers, smes and industry. but, especially, it will have a massive impact on vulnerable households. as a consequence, energy poverty is likely to increase. we, the socialists in parliament, are in favour of the need for solutions to deal with the rise in energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all, many thanks to the rapporteurs for their work: without a doubt, mainstreaming the gender perspective in all policies and throughout the political cycle is the best strategy we can pursue to advance gender equality and, to this end, your inclusion in the european parliament is essential because we also have a responsibility to set an example for many other parliaments. the reality is that we have made progress in this approach, but only partially: for example, it is true that all the committees of parliament have adopted action plans on gender issues, but there is a lack of monitoring to see whether the objectives set have actually been achieved. it is also true that there is more women in the positions of responsibility in the committees, but it is still a minority and above all there is a great segregation, with women rather concentrated in the more social committees and more absent from others that, in theory, have more power, such as those in the economic field, and which, in the end, define the limits of the policies we can do in the rest of the continents. we also know from this report that we need better and more structured links between all the institutions of the european union in terms of gender mainstreaming and transversality; that we also need to join forces to fight against the anti-feminist, anti-gender and, in short, anti-democratic movements that we have known for some time that are receiving extraordinary funding to launch campaigns against equality, although now, unfortunately, with the war in ukraine, they are flourishing even more. we also see that we need to measure whether the input from the committee on women's rights and gender equality is incorporated into other committees and into parliament's final position, and to do that we need to have better data, more data, and that will be the way to measure real political will. we, the socialists, have that will and we consider this report to be a great step forward, especially that the zipper lists are included in the next revision of the european union's electoral law, that we make training compulsory for members of parliament in the field of anti-harassment and #metoo and that external auditing is a real guarantee. we are therefore faced with a solid and progressive proposal, and it is a good thing that we are debating it today, 8 march, international women's day, when so many women and so many men are watching us everywhere.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, gender mainstreaming has long ceased to be a novel tool for promoting equality between women and men. the world conference on women in nairobi in 1985 called for its implementation and, ten years later, the platform for action adopted in beijing adopted it as a strategy to combat multiple and intersectional discrimination against women without any reduction. today we know the possibilities it offers, but we also know that gender transversality can be a waste if it is applied in a fragmented and partial way, if there is no real commitment and it is applied mechanically. in a time of crisis and uncertainty like the one we are living in, in which war is adding more imbalance to the situation generated by the pandemic and structural inequalities, it is more necessary than ever to provide content and value transversal gender. today, the normalcy of a war-mongering logic could be imposed, which would increase military spending and reduce social spending, and in this context it would be women who suffer most. it is time to recognise diversity, the redistribution of opportunities, power and resources and to commit to equal representation of women and men - it is time. this commitment to equality would also reduce sexist violence, which is nothing but a brutal manifestation of discrimination and oppression. this parliament is not only an employer of hundreds of workers, to whom it must guarantee equal employment, but it is also a mirror in which governments throughout europe look at each other every day. and we must set an example.
in fact robert biedroń was the first man to ask for the floor in this debate and we have only two male members of this chamber in our lists of speakers for this evening.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many of the initiatives we take every day seek to set in motion a virtuous process which not only aims to increase the mere presence of women in leading positions, but indirectly aims to create the training, support and working conditions which are essential in modern society, to encourage the presence of women at every level of the pyramid. what we must avoid is falling into politically correct texts, which are sometimes completely sterile and useless. i think that the fact that so much attention and energy is focused on neutral language, on minor issues such as the number of male members in the agriculture committee rather than in the fisheries committee, or on menstrual cups in the bathrooms, is really far removed from the reality that surrounds us. you might say that institutions should set a good example. it's true, you know. but we must also avoid forgetting what the world is like out there, we must not fall into the syndrome of marie antoinette in versailles. because there are real problems out there. outside this european bubble, women earn 30% less than men for equal work. it is as if a female member of parliament earns 30% less than a male colleague. the road to gender equality is unfortunately still a long one. our task as legislators is to continue to work on the 'ordinary' and the 'extraordinary', but without ever losing sight of the real needs of european citizens.
mr president, gender mainstreaming is, at the end of the day, a powerful instrument. it’s about changing society, it’s about changing culture. it’s about changing our way of thinking and doing politics. and we, as the european parliament, we should lead by example. with the 2020 gender mainstreaming report, we looked into how this principle has been adopted within our institution. much has been achieved, mainly thanks to the engaged members of the gender mainstreaming network. there is so much cooperation. so thank you, gwendoline, thank you, irène, and thank you to all those engaged members all over the committees in this european parliament. how we push gender mainstreaming – this is an idea national parliaments should take over. so we adopted anti-harassment policies just last december. we’re advancing on tackling vertical and horizontal discrimination within our house. and we have a comprehensive gender action plan and roadmap to achieve the goal of gender equality. however, we also see that in the european parliament, we also still have to do far more. for example, when it comes to the election of members, we need parity from all political groups, not only from the left, also from the right. and we need to better institutionalise gender mainstreaming for more structure, more data and better indicators. so, in the end, gender equality is for all of us and should be as normal in our way of thinking as breathing.
mr president, in this house, we know how important equality and representation are for democracy. we also note that inclusive leadership is good for the quality of decision-making and, with 40% women among our membership, the european parliament represents inclusive leadership in european politics. but we also know that some political parties in this house do not accept any inclusivity, including in terms of gender. the context for the equality we have to look at today includes covid consequences, insane putin’s aggression, long—term gender gaps in many areas of our lives, and the conclusions of the recent report on the recovery and resilience facility (rrf) implementation. this context tells us that the need for progress on all gender fronts remains fundamental. we also see with more clarity that progress can only be achieved through binding measures. fortunately, as co—legislator, we have the tool in our hands. colleagues, now, in the time of multiple challenges, we must remain particularly vigilant. there are risks of reversing the eu’s gains, its shift in gender equality over the last two decades. what was a largely supported achievement 10 years ago, the istanbul convention, is questioned today in some political parties, in particular in central european countries, where ruling parties reject even the word ‘gender’, and we heard it tonight. this anti—gender attitude means that gender equality is rejected as a recognition of human rights for women. we should include these issues in our dialogue with national parliaments. the eu has always been seen as a global champion in gender equality, largely due to the commitment of the european parliament. as we see that political commitment to gender equality cannot be taken for granted, we count on the engagement of the commission, and our house should strengthen its role as guardian of gender equality.
mr president, look, if i had been born in the 19th century, i assure you that i would have been a suffragist and would have fought with all my might to demand equality between men and women; if i, in these times, had been born in saudi arabia, iran or chad, for example, i assure you that i would be fighting tooth and nail, with all my might, for equality between men and women. but i was born in europe, i was born in spain: i am a member of a democracy in which my rights and freedoms are recognized. i will not tire of saying that in europe women are not born victims, and it is important that we stop feeling like victims, we are not: we have the same opportunities as men, and it is enough to hear this constant complaint. we are living through a war in which there are men, mainly men, although there are also many women, but mainly men, fighting for our freedoms, and we are here lamenting the representation of quotas within the european institutions. women do not need in europe, or anywhere else, to be told what we should study, what we should work for, or how we should organise our family life: what we want is to be allowed freedom of choice and to have a legal system like the one we have in europe, where, if there is any case in which there is discrimination, not between men and women, between any citizen, we have a court to which we can turn to demand that this inequality be solved. in europe, women are not born victims.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, today is 8 march and we must stop and think once again about the challenges facing women: ending gender-based violence, guaranteeing sexual and reproductive rights, promoting women's leadership and committing to humanitarian action with a gender perspective, for example. and we will work on it, even if the forces on the extreme right, who are also in this parliament, are determined to prevent it. i say this because the action plan we are reporting today was vetoed by four governments in the council, who say they reject the term 'gender': centuries of feminist reflection and struggle aired out in a single breath. of course, they'll have us in front of them. they will not be able to impose their framework of nonsense and regressions on us. we will not back down in the fight for gender equality. we will advance an intersectional approach that is transformative and articulate a constructive and forward-looking agenda that strengthens women's representation. we will do it today for the women of ukraine and for all those who fight for peace in the world, the women who are spoils of war, today more than ever. we feminists will continue to push forward with unwavering will and determination until we get women to live the lives they want and deserve to live. we therefore demand effective resources, gender-trained professionals and a budget that allows us to plan our objectives and actions, to carry out concrete actions and to assess their impact. we do not want to continue reading in the next 8m that in europe women walk at a turtle's pace or that we will have to wait 60 years to inhabit a world of equals.
(initial speech outside the microphone) ... equality is not a privilege of european women. we therefore welcome the adoption of the third eu action plan on gender in foreign policy. we welcome the figures given by the commissioner, that 78% of projects funded by the cipdif are gender-sensitive, but we remind her, from the committee on development, that it is urgent to give priority to women with disabilities in humanitarian action; that eu climate action is gender-sensitive and helps to channel development funds towards digital education for women and girls; and that there is universal access to sexual and reproductive health, including the right to abortion, for those women living outside our borders, including lgbti women. the debate is more timely today than ever with the introduction of european law to force countries to criminalize non-consensual sexual relations such as rape, female genital mutilation, cyberbullying or the non-consensual online sharing of intimate images, known as revenge porn. as we socialist feminists in this parliament have asked, we are demanding in this law the creation of legal instruments such as the european restraining order, the funding of shelters and centres for women and their children, helpline lines for victims and education in schools. the message is key. there must be consensus and speed to finally pass this legislation. it is not a problem of the least developed countries, it is also a problem of the european countries. thank you very much, and all of you with ukraine tonight.
the socialist group, on behalf of the s&d group, would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in the past. these are the principles we carry as our banner. the european semester, as a mechanism for coordinating economic and employment policies, plays a fundamental role in dealing with the difficult situation we are facing in europe at the moment and in being able to cope with the socioeconomic costs of this terrible war brutally imposed by russia. we must certainly welcome and help all the victims of the invasion of ukraine, guided by the solidarity which precedes us as a union. but we must also redouble our efforts to prevent the rise of inequality and poverty within our borders, through measures to redistribute wealth and strong investment in our social welfare systems. and this must be done with the support of european resources. leaving behind fiscal policies based on austerity is no longer an option: it is a necessity in order to guarantee decent living conditions and sustainable development and social progress. and not just for the big corporations: for everyone. the socialists therefore believe that the european semester should have a strong social dimension, giving social objectives the same importance as digital or environmental ones. and also in terms of investment. a european semester ensuring coherence between the country-specific recommendations and the objectives of the recovery and resilience facility regulation, including a greater number of social indicators as part of the policy coordination framework. we also advocate modernising the current stability and growth pact, extending the general safeguard clause to facilitate public investment and achieving economic governance based on solidarity, social justice and social welfare for all european citizens.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, alarm bells are ringing as we speak in the markets. the markets, i think, believe that putin’s war might mark the start of the third european recession in a row. how should we react to that? monetary policy has its hands full. we cannot rely, like before, on the european central bank. we need to have a serious fiscal response. we need to welcome several million refugees. we need to accelerate the energy transition and cushion the blow to our households. we need to invest in our defence. all of those things need fiscal space that our countries do not have right now. so what can we do? i think that it has to be europe acting together like we did against covid. we needed to act together against the pandemic. we need to start a new recovery fund, similar to the one we put together against covid, to fund together all of those investments that europe needs to undertake. now the problem, as some of my colleagues have remarked, is that the debt trajectories are probably not sustainable, particularly given where our welfare states and the demographic change that is driving their increase are going. so what we need to do is to condition access to this new european fund on a path of fiscal consolidation in the medium term that should be made sure to be followed by a new european fiscal agency. a european independent fiscal agency that ensures that access to this new fund comes in exchange for a credible fiscal consolidation path. i think that this can be done, and i hope that this can be accomplished.
madam president, if the dramatic exceptionalism we have experienced over the last two years has brought anything good, it has opened a window of opportunity for the development of policies not aligned with the ordo-liberal orthodoxy that has dominated the european union's economic governance framework until now. this is illustrated by the very suspension of the stability and growth pact. i therefore believe it is essential that this parliament should take advantage of this small space that has opened up to advocate a radical transformation of the european semester and of the rules of economic governance, to leave behind a mechanism that has led to the degradation of the living conditions of the majority of the working population and the exponential increase in social inequality. in the face of this image, which is still on our minds, we must defend the incorporation of greater social considerations that bring it closer to equitable and egalitarian parameters, in line with the democratic expectations of the citizens. if we do not, we will have missed a golden opportunity to transform an instrument that can be used again as a mechanism to discipline our societies and strain our democracies.
madam president, commissioners, madam minister, in these times of economic uncertainty, the european semester is becoming even more relevant as a guarantee of macroeconomic stability within the european union. the terrible consequences of the covid crisis or the consequences that are coming and that we will experience from the war in ukraine cannot be an excuse for the european union to anchor itself in the laxity of budgetary rules. let us not fall into the lone wolf trap: today's flexibility in deficit control is the instability and lack of sustainability control in public accounts tomorrow. the mobilisation of european union resources for the economic recovery of the states should not set a bad precedent. i say no to the development of debt-based structural spending policies that mortgage the future of future generations. we are committed to budgetary rules that help to reduce the deficit and debt in a credible way that makes the european union a more competitive economy.
madam president, madam prime minister, mr borrell, thanks very much, both of you, for your leadership. but let me ask the question, dear colleagues, are we doing enough to help ukrainians? the sad answer is no. true, we are arming the ukrainians, madam prime minister, you talked about the half a billion euros peace facility. but the truth is that we’re spending many more resources arming putin. today, every day, we’re sending eur 1 billion to pay for our oil and gas, etc. to putin. why? our leaders tell us that we might fall in a recession if we stop doing that. come on, dear colleagues, that hypocrisy has to stop. the moral and strategic arguments of not arming our enemies are obvious, but so are the economic arguments. our economies will suffer much more as a result of a slowly escalating and long-lasting war than if we bankrupt putin now if we make it impossible for him to pay wages, pensions and the salaries of his military. prime minister kallas, mr borrell, let’s bite the bullet now. not buying russian gas is bearable for our economies. what is unbearable is continuing to pay for putin’s murders.
i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs simona bonafè, on the excellent report which the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has been able to produce. i think it is important to put into context the why of the importance of this future regulation (formerly a directive - already a very important one) which is going to be put forward here, possibly, in the european parliament. this future regulation is part of the circular economy action plan presented by the commission in march last year. this plan included the change from a directive to a regulation, and we in the imco committee are very proud of it, because, firstly, it makes it possible to harmonize a rule and make it fully transversal for the different member states. this regulation is important because it is part of the legislative tsunami of the european green deal, which is going to change the way we consume, interact, produce within the european union and, ultimately, the way we also interact with the world around us. for the first time, the european union is able to regulate the entire value chain of a product: from how we extract the raw materials and the conditions that must be met for that extraction, to how we are able to dispose of the last of the waste or recycle the batteries. i would like to highlight three important aspects which i believe are being taken into account and which are at the heart of this approval we will be giving in the european parliament. first, among those three objectives, is the respect of human rights throughout the process, especially in the extraction of raw materials; also the reduction of the environmental impact during the manufacture of batteries and accumulators; and last but not least, that the batteries circulating in the internal market are sustainable, high-performance and, above all, safe for all consumers. it is also important that we give value to what we have achieved: not only certain batteries are to be incorporated; we must include portable batteries, automotive batteries, electric vehicle batteries and also industrial batteries. but i also want to focus on an element that is very much used by a very important segment of the population, which is young people. we have been able to incorporate light transport, such as electric scooters, because we cannot remain outside of this technological change and consumer habits. in short, a future regulation that will be part of the european union's green and technological agenda. we must give value to the role of consumers and, above all, create a social awareness among european citizens of everything that has to do with what we consume, what we manufacture and how we relate to the environment.
madam president, commissioner, the european union has set itself the objective of being a benchmark in the battery industry. a key piece in our struggle for strategic autonomy. we want 30 million electric vehicles on our roads by 2030, and these figures imply an exponential increase in strategic materials such as lithium, cobalt, manganese, nickel, which europe is poor in and which we are completely dependent on imports of. by 2020 alone, we're going to need 18 times more lithium or 5 times more cobalt. if we want to ensure our strategic autonomy, we need to encourage and develop an industry in europe which uses the principles of circularity as its main lever. and to do that we need a regulatory framework, new rules of the game that guarantee regulation and legal certainty throughout the value chain. and that is what today's proposal proposes. we legislate comprehensively across the entire product life cycle, from design to end-of-life, to make batteries more sustainable and more competitive. i think it's an ambitious proposal. we are introducing requirements on the content of recycled material in batteries, more ambitious collection measures; we are regulating the second life of batteries in electric vehicles, of the millions of batteries we will have so that they can have other uses, and we are implementing a battery passport that reflects their carbon footprint so that their environmental impact is also transparent. of course, environmental sustainability must go hand in hand with the social dimension. we must ensure that the abuse of workers and the use of child labour in mines is eliminated. thank you, chief. i think with this legislation today we're taking a big step. we are ambitious and we are sending a strong signal in europe to accelerate our energy independence.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs. the greening of batteries envisaged by this regulation is essential in the green energy transition. we are already seeing an increase in demand for batteries, and electrification of the transport sector, which is going to lead to a further increase - that's clear - for their use in electric vehicles. the year 2035 is the year the commission plans to phase out combustion engines in cars and vans, and there is also a growing number of alternative means of transport - such as electric scooters - and a greater reliance on portable electric devices. we must therefore be ambitious in setting limits on carbon emissions from battery production and in requiring member states - and manufacturers - to collect and use recycled content. this last point is important given the potential lithium shortages in the market, which we are already seeing. last year, while global sales of electric cars reached an all-time high, up 108 percent from 2020, lithium needs increased 25 percent, but global production only surged 21 percent. we have a problem there. batteries have become a strategic industry globally, and in these times we live in, energy supply is key. batteries will play an important role in the necessary stability of the energy system, as they can store and distribute renewable energy when the sun is not shining or when the wind is not blowing. we therefore support the excellent work, we support the excellent report and we advocate that this regulation can and should make the european union a continent that is a leader in sustainable matters. - i'm not going to the hospital.
member of the commission. – madam president, i’m very happy that we reached a political agreement just before the end of last year. we have avoided a big gap between the seventh and eighth environmental action programme (eap) and this is great news. with this agreement, i believe we have reached our common goal together. our agreement on the way, we see the future is essential for our unity and resilience. and here we have laid down ambitious and inspiring common ground. our determination to strive for a well-being economy where growth is regenerative and nothing is wasted, our ambition for climate neutrality and for reducing inequalities, our resolution to pursue a system where a healthy environment underpins the well-being of all people. where biodiversity is concerned, ecosystems thrive and nature is protected and restored, thus increasing resilience to climate-related disasters and other environmental risks. and where our union sets the pace for ensuring the prosperity of present and future generations globally, guided by intergenerational responsibility. these are words from the vision of the eighth eap, words that are important to remember and repeat, words that inspire actions and make us even more committed to do our job as good as we can. the action programme we are adopting comes not only with a long-term vision, but also defines priority objectives and enables us to help shape environmental policy until the end of this decade. we have also taken the first steps towards the monitoring framework. work can now conclude on a headline indicator set that will guide us towards our objectives for the environment and for climate for 2030 and for 2050. we are working intensely to finalise these indicators and i hope to present them to you shortly. the targeted stakeholder consultations confirmed a broad agreement on most indicators, and we want to further improve our tools to measure progress and close indicator gaps. this is very useful, for example, for showing the links between environmental degradation and social inequalities. you can expect an initial progress report in late 2022 or early 2023, and a more comprehensive report in the mid-term review in early 2024. we have a joint interest in this guidance, and i am convinced that the eighth eap will help improve tracking progress towards our common goals and show us where more effort is needed. finally, a word of sincere thanks to all who contributed and helped us reach this agreement, and especially to the rapporteur, grace o’sullivan, and all the european parliament shadow rapporteurs and their teams, our constructive and close cooperation with the council presidencies of germany, portugal and slovenia, who have all contributed very much from their side to this very good outcome, which resulted in an ambitious programme towards living well within the planetary boundaries. thank you very much for your attention.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, the objective of the eighth environment action programme is the rapid and fair transition of the union to a climate neutral and inclusive economy. the environmental objectives of the united nations 2030 agenda and those of sustainable development must also be achieved. the programme is an ambitious high-level strategic tool to guide the european union's environmental policy up to 2030. it should include the actions and objectives of the european green deal and the sustainable development goals. at the same time, it should closely monitor progress towards achieving the targets by 2050 at the latest. people should live well within planetary boundaries in a prosperous and sustainable economy where nothing is wasted. a clean environment will ensure the health of people. biodiversity and ecosystems will flourish and nature will be protected. there will also be enhanced resilience to climate change, natural disasters and other environmental hazards. europe, along with the rest of the world, is in a race against time to avoid the devastating economic and social impacts of climate change, ecosystem degradation and over-consumption of natural resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented in a timely manner. we have secured inclusion in the 8th programme of social issues such as references to reducing inequalities. we have also ensured that the actions taken to achieve the objectives of the programme will be carried out in a socially just and inclusive manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for the work done on this report. the challenges and opportunities ahead of us are of unprecedented magnitude and urgency. the urgency of moving forward with the green deal and this eighth framework programme is therefore clearly urgent. there is a voice saying that, in view of the emergency and the consequences of the war, we should delay the objectives of the green deal. nothing could be further from the truth. what we must do now is regret that we did not launch the green deal earlier, or that we did not accelerate and invest in its commitments. we're late today. we're late to energy diversification and independence. and we're late because we haven't invested more money in time to pursue our energy autonomy. that is why we need to act today in the short and long term. in the long term, we need massive investment in the energy transition. commissioner, we have spent a great deal of time talking about financing the climate transition, but very little time talking about what we are actually investing in financing the opposite. and in the negotiations for this eighth framework programme we have spoken a lot about the need to eliminate subsidies for fossil fuels. we spent 52 billion euros in 2020 to finance fossil fuels, which we have to get rid of immediately because russian gas has become the financing of war, of the terrible and criminal invasion of our brothers, of our ukrainian neighbors. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary impact of the current budgetary procedure is not exceeded. what would we have achieved with these 52 billion if we had invested in accelerating renewable energy, in increasing interconnections between france and spain and the rest of europe? what would we have gotten by investing in renewable energy storage? that is why we have to move forward with this eighth framework programme. the sun, wind and water are the main assets against energy dependence. they're much more predictable than the forecasts of a tyrant like putin. we must protect our ecosystems because they are the guarantee of food sovereignty and we must not make the mistake of not complying with the seventh framework programme. it's in our hands.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, this action programme is good news for the environment and therefore for all of us in the european union. increasing ambition, phasing out fossil fuel funding, integrating animal health and welfare are some of the elements that can make us feel proud to be moving in the right direction. today, however, this parliament is looking 2,000 kilometres away. the attempt to control ukraine has a lot to do with what this environmental programme covers: our dependence on gas in general and on russian gas in particular is one of the great stumbling blocks to progress towards our energy and environmental sovereignty. it's all the more reason to finally put fossil fuels aside and take the ecological transition seriously. and that is that this following the gas industry is costing us very dearly. in spain the consequences of the war in ukraine are already being felt and these days the price of electricity is going to reach 700 euros per megawatt hour in some areas. the european union cannot continue to play two sides: either we bet on energy sovereignty, to put a stop to skyrocketing profits, to stop climate change, or we continue to whitewash the entire gas industry, including the financing of putin's pipelines. we are clear about this: deepening public management of strategic sectors, regulating the electricity market and a firm commitment to the energy transition.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. these days we see groups of refugees taking the most basic necessities with them and setting off. although frightened, suffering, and tired, they are happy to arrive safely, to be fed, and to be clothed in warm clothing. there are also more and more environmental refugees. how little a man needs to survive. of course, for a quality life, we need much more. let me express my support for the ukrainian people in their struggle for their homeland, freedom and democracy, and at the same time express my admiration and gratitude to all those who are generously helping the ukrainian people. fortunately, most europeans still live in peace. we measure the progress of a society by the growth of its gdp. but it's becoming increasingly clear that we're going to have to change the metrics for measuring progress. we will have to measure our success against the well-being and prosperity of people and planet. i therefore support the proposal for a new set of european union indicators to measure progress. future eu legislation must be consistent with the sustainable development goals and the eighth environment action programme. of course, its implementation and the progress made must also be monitored. it's the only way we'll know how successful we are and what we've accomplished. if the planet dies, so does all life on it. the basis for change is the green deal. we've clearly written down all the goals we need to achieve. and with each new crisis, our goals are increasingly questionable. i don't think we can do this without a little sacrifice and a change in lifestyle. we'll have to spend less and put less strain on our ecosystem. we're going to have to behave much more responsibly to the planet, to food, to life on earth.
madam president, commissioner, it is good that we have the future soil health act here; i think it is one of the achievements of this agreement. i welcome it because it reinforces the commitment of the member states to the need to regulate the soil problem at european level. it's about time. i hope it doesn't happen to us like in 2006 - you know that in the end he fell out of the program. it is also very important that the text should mention the need to develop a set of indicators beyond gross product. social progress has to take account - we have to take account, ladies and gentlemen - of other parameters: health, a stable climate, a healthy environment, thriving ecosystems, not just economic growth. the elimination of fossil fuel subsidies and environmentally harmful subsidies has also been discussed here. i regret the council's refusal to create new obligations or to mention a specific year for phasing out. it is very good that mention has been made of environmental taxation and the creation of a methodology to identify other subsidies which are harmful to the environment. but i repeat, we must include a specific date; sometimes it is difficult to get specific commitments. finally, i think it is very appropriate to mention the reduction of the material and consumption footprint of the union. i regret that the reference to binding targets for reducing the use of original raw materials has been removed. i think it made the text more complete, but, well, we're still moving forward. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and to set more and more concrete dates and commitments.
madam president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, grace o’sullivan, for delivering a great job on this file on the 8th environment action programme. i had the pleasure of chairing the last negotiation rounds and you really did a very good job, which has led to the result that, for the first time in a legislative package, we really are calling for a clear deadline to phase out fossil fuel subsidies and also to work on a methodology to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies. i think, to be very honest, parliament would have loved to go further. that’s no surprise. that was also very transparent from our position. but it was quite shocking to see the attitude of the council, to be very honest. every time we hear the council at the g7 or g20 and all the statements at the oecd, it’s always ‘we want to get rid of fossil fuel subsidies’. in glasgow, europe was at the forefront fighting to stop fossil fuel subsidies. then, a month later, we go into negotiations on a european law and the member states say, ‘no, but we don’t want that in a law’. apparently, we want to keep that for nice speeches. if we look at the current situation, at what’s happening right now in ukraine, we see what our fossil dependency is doing. what more evidence do we need? we need to do something about that, to reduce our dependency. one step we need to take to do that is, of course, stopping fossil fuel subsidies, which are subsidising, with public money, our fossil dependency on regimes like putin’s. so now i expect the commission to go full steam ahead in coming up with dates for stopping our fossil fuel subsidies and speeding up the methodology for stopping our environmentally harmful subsidies. if now is not the moment, i do not know when the moment is. so really, dear commissioner, it was great to do the negotiations, but now the homework of this 8th environment action programme is there and it’s urgent.
madam president, the eighth general programme of action of the union on the environment is not only an example of how the green ideology, which dominates the whole of parliament, disregards science, the reality of the market and the interests of the european citizen; in the present circumstances of a europe at war, it is a real insult. neither covid nor the russian invasion of ukraine have served to make the european commission critically review its green deal and recognize that priorities need to change radically. the socialist vice-president timmermans and so many others are trying, with their ecological and climate obsessions, to continue as if nothing were happening on this continent, which is practically on fire. it is terrible that the big parties do not dare to oppose the radicals of fanatical and irresponsible environmentalism. we are facing a drama which demands that reality prevail over ideological whims. this programme is intended to be the framework for sustainable development, the green deal and the 2030 agenda. the targets are evil, ideological and false. the text is also very bad and parliament's position is almost worse. at a dramatic moment when people are already dying in europe from the cold, from energy poverty, when the quality of life of europeans has been plunged by a completely wrong policy, by a senseless dependence on russian fuels that the european union has increased, and with solutions to renewables that are insufficient or have directly failed, we see how they talk about a climate neutral, sustainable, but non-toxic, resilient, competitive and circular economy in a fair, equitable and inclusive way. the reality demands that the ideological daydreams of the 2030 agenda and the green deal be put to rest. please, reality for all.
mr president, commissioner, we are witnessing today a transformation of industrial relations due to the impact of factors such as digitalisation. it is clear that the pandemic has only highlighted and increased the risks of a phenomenon that has been developing rapidly for some time: the birth of a new social, digital, market economy that has a direct impact on working conditions and, therefore, on the safety and health of workers, including mental health. the use and application of new advanced artificial intelligence systems, such as algorithms, has led to the precariousness of working conditions, partly due to the lack of regulation existing to date. increased control and monitoring of working hours, lack of social interaction and separation of private and professional life are just some of the many aspects that highlight the pressure on the worker and the risk to mental health that this poses. the new european framework for health and safety at work must adapt to this reality and to current challenges, and this also translates into the need to establish binding legal mechanisms for the prevention of psychosocial risks and to regulate the use of artificial intelligence in the workplace. the commission has also set up a working group to examine the possibility of extending the right to disconnect and to establish minimum requirements for fair and equal telecommuting conditions. depression, stress, anxiety, burnout, pathologies well known to all, as the commissioner has pointed out, present every day in our working environment as a new form of pandemic and yet not recognized as occupational diseases. we socialists are committed to ensuring that we move towards a modernity of social justice and welfare. this includes protecting workers from risks arising from hyperconnectivity, macrovigilance, monitoring and discrimination or automated digital decisions. innovation and progress were not conceived as synonymous with exploitation and precarious work. the report we are discussing here today on a new strategic framework for health and safety at work is key to ensuring that all workers in europe enjoy the necessary protection and dignity in the workplace.
mr president, in any review of the legal framework for safety and health at work, it must be borne in mind that women workers are the ones who are largely excluded. i therefore want to put forward two very simple proposals. first, there is a need to respond firmly to harassment at work, a phenomenon which, far from being circumstantial, illustrates a structural problem in our workplaces, fuelled by tolerance, imbalance in power relations, the absence of safe spaces and, above all, the lack of prevention and gender parity policies. it is time to overcome the blockage to ratification of ilo convention 190. secondly, on teleworking, which, far from contributing to reconciliation, has added new burdens to the backs of women, exacerbating gender stereotypes, worsening their double and triple working hours and hindering their professional and wage development. so it is very important, in line with the measures taken in countries like spain, that we have a directive which sets minimum standards for teleworking and also takes into account the specific challenges faced by women.
mr president, secure tax revenues and fair and simple taxation are crucial underpinnings of a strong recovery. they contribute to achieving our far-reaching ambitions, including social justice. all member states must continue to fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax fraud because that undermines tax revenue needed to build a better future for our citizens and hinder fair competition and functioning social systems. we should also ensure that our tax systems do not disproportionately tax labour, and therefore we need a fair balance between taxation of labour and capital, and we must ensure that multinational companies are properly taxed. i fully support the efforts to update international tax rules, notably through the two-pillar solution of the oecd/g20 agreement. better cooperation between national tax authorities and increased transparency will also be necessary. the excellent report we debate today proposes pertinent recommendations to the commission on fair and simple taxation. i am concerned, however, that future good initiatives risk getting stuck in the council. we should therefore consider rethinking the requirement for unanimity on tax matters in the council, as the citizens who are participating in the conference on the future for europe recommend us in their written texts.
member of the commission. – mr president, i think we all know that the challenge to have a simpler and fairer taxation system is a long-lasting one. simplicity is needed to deal with the differences between member states, and fairness is always a challenge because we are progressive. we have reached a global agreement, but at the same time tax fraud is also progressing and finding a new way. so we have, i think, a common cause here. i consider the report that you are discussing to be a very good step forward, with a lot of good elements for our reflection. i am also convinced that the situation we are in with this new crisis of the war on our borders is bringing a couple of things that we have to take into account. first, we will need a lot of public spending in the coming years for several issues. second, the protection of our single market against distortion is also the protection of our strength and of the model that we want to support against this kind of aggression. so i think that the importance of this work for a simpler and fairer taxation system is also a way to understand the situation we are in and to respond to this crisis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 10 march 2022. written declarations (article 171) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. i believe that in the current economic climate, it is more important than ever to tackle tax fraud and tax evasion. everyone has to pay taxes on their real economic activity. and to restore the economy and to sustain growth, we have a common interest in having stable government revenues. it is also important to reduce the administrative burden on smes and to make it easier for them to operate in the single market. i therefore agree with the parts of the report that aim at initiatives to this end or at improving the exchange of information in tax matters. this is all the more so as the progress made in this area in recent years has made a major contribution to the fight against tax avoidance both at union level and in the member states. i am proud to say that vat has been reduced to 9% in hungary. this was facilitated by three important government actions: the introduction of online atms, an electronic road traffic control system and an online invoicing system. however, i reject the parts of the report that attack the eu treaties. i would remind my colleagues on the left that tax policy decisions are a matter for the member states. i would like to stress again that tax harmonisation would lead to a reduction in the competitiveness of the union as a whole. i ask my fellow members to respect the treaties and to draw up only such rules and reports in this house as will help, not hinder, the competitiveness of european industry in these difficult times.
the next item is the report (a9-0011/2022) by mr pedro marques, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on a european framework for withholding taxation (2021/2097 (ini)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the cross-border investment, simplified taxation and fighting tax abuse are priorities for the european union. since years, initiatives have were on the subject; we were discussing this report in 2009 and then in 2017. but despite our efforts – our common efforts, as you rightly note in your report – obstacles still remain in the european union. you know that we announced in our action plan in july 2020 that further work is needed after many initiatives in this area failed to remove the hurdles that cross-border investors face to receive their refund from the source country. furthermore, greater transparency towards the tax authorities is required from the so-called financial intermediaries to ensure that the correct amount of tax is levied and that not too much is being refunded. so the commission is committed to present a proposal that would take away the hurdles and make the procedures more efficient, and at the same time prevent the risk of fraud. our services are now gathering input from stakeholders and from tax administrations. our intention is to launch a public consultation soon. these contributions will feed into the design of the proposal. the points raised by your report are, in this respect, very timely in informing our work. at this stage, i can say that we are looking into ways to ensure greater transparency and digitalisation. this could include developing minimum common standards of data that will need to be provided to tax authorities, using digital tools to perform risk management and eu wide registry for approved financial intermediaries or an eu-approved digital tax residency certificate. ideally, the tax authorities of the member states will have access to the required data in a manner that allows for quick processing and should result in a relief at source or a refund with minimal effort performed both by the investor and the tax administration. moreover, the need to maintain a coherent and consistent approach to aggressive tax planning remains our top priority. the commission sees positively the entry into force of some measures, for example, in 2021 new withholding tax measures in the netherlands, and we also welcome the commitments taken by ireland and cyprus in their recovery and resilience plans to act against the erosion of the eu tax base through royalty interest or dividend payments that can exit the eu potentially untaxed because of the absence of withholding taxes. nonetheless, we know that this is not enough and we will continue to closely monitor and to intervene by all possible means to address the issue of aggressive tax planning and distortion of the single market through payment exiting the eu and tax. as regards the eu listing process, on previous occasions i welcome your support in inviting member states to introduce defensive measures against countries that do not cooperate with the eu on tax matters. today, i can confirm that your pledge has been taken into account with very few exceptions. all member states currently apply agreed measures vis-a-vis listed countries. to conclude, i would like to reiterate how much the global agreement is important for us and also the implementation of the pillar two. we are sparing no efforts to support the french presidency, and we know that the european parliament is also already dealing with this fight. so let me thank you, honourable member marques, for providing useful ideas and recommendation exactly in this moment to our work and to our common initiative.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr marques, because i think it is a good report that we are presenting today and also because of the good spirit that has prevailed during all the negotiations and long meetings that we have had to be able to present this report today and put it to the vote. and i can tell you in advance that the epp group will vote in favour. in the current socioeconomic context marked by the latest covid outbreaks and by the geopolitical instability that the russian invasion of ukraine is causing, it is undoubtedly clear that the european union must become, now more than ever, an economically strong region, capable of competing in the international sphere. this report is a good instrument for achieving that objective. we need to establish a european framework for tax withholding that promotes market integration and encourages cross-border investment. the establishment of this european framework will thus make it possible to move towards the much needed capital markets union, where our companies and investors can operate freely and without bureaucratic obstacles. for this reason, the union is the area in which member states should be encouraged to modify their national tax frameworks with two objectives: firstly, to lighten the tax burden associated with crossborder investments with a particular impact on retail investors and smes; and secondly, to avoid double taxation and the so-called tax harmonisation, which is nothing more than the attempt to raise minimum tax rates in all countries. for these reasons, i welcome the existence of this report as a starting point for us in the european parliament to continue working towards a genuine capital markets union, which encourages long-term investment opportunities, helps union citizens to get better returns on their savings and, finally, makes the european union the most competitive and attractive region for international investors and businesses.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i should like to start by saying that i did believe the commissioner's words. the consumption of clothing, footwear and home textiles in the european union, ladies and gentlemen, involves the use of 675 million tonnes of raw materials each year, that is to say an average of 1.3 tonnes per citizen of the european union per year. the textile sector exerts the second highest pressure on land use and is the fifth largest sector in terms of carbon emissions from domestic consumption. and another fact: the textile industry uses 53 billion cubic meters of water every year. and do you know where 73% of all textiles will end up? well, dumped or incinerated. therefore, we need an ambitious strategy that contributes to the sustainability and circularity of the sector and to create the necessary conditions and incentives for resilience, for competitiveness, even more so, especially after the covid crisis. we need a strategy that increases the life expectancy of textile products, ensures that they can be easily reused or at least repaired, and also addresses the prevention, dissemination and traceability of the use of hazardous chemicals in textile value chains. and finally, we need a strategy that drives the consumption of recycled textiles, that moves beyond that linear business model. it could also be an opportunity to tax the use of virgin resources by the textile sector. a strategy which makes the union's textile industry responsible for its role in the world, since much of the pressure from our textile consumption is outside our borders. the textile sector must therefore be circular. it's not enough for brands to promote a few collections made with sustainable materials. it is insufficient while they continue to sell thousands of cheap products with a huge environmental and climate impact. circularity must therefore mean a radical reduction in the environmental impact of industry. the main objective of the new strategy must ultimately be to contribute to the reduction of textile production, which is what the commissioner said. we need better materials that are less toxic and that last longer, ladies and gentlemen. i mean, reusable, recyclable clothes. but this must be accompanied by a general reduction in production. this is a desirable, necessary strategy. i ask the commission to be ambitious, to include all the necessary legislative measures to enable the sector to be transformed, because i think we all agree that we cannot let this opportunity pass.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european people, if the data is to be believed, are very fond of buying textiles. we buy about 26 kilos of textiles a year and throw away about 11 kilos, so that more than 15 million tonnes of textiles are bought by the population of the european union every year. however, 90 percent of european textiles are incinerated or destroyed, even though they can be recycled. of course, the footprint is huge, but regulations don't help because they're not uniform. it's a good idea, but we should also consider encouraging those who are leading the way in so-called sustainable fashion. i believe you've heard of the concept of virtual clothing, which has started to powerfully change the use of classic clothing items. but for that part of innovation and industry, which is already here, there are no incentives at all. the concept of sustainable development is emerging as a significant global solution. of course, it is necessary to raise awareness among citizens of the importance of the fashion and textile industry in achieving the european union's climate goals. by investing in the research and development of sustainable textiles, which i have already mentioned, we can help the sector to strengthen its competitiveness, while contributing to the environmental objectives of the european union by applying the principle of the circular economy to production, consumption, waste management and secondary raw materials. we need to promote products that are designed to be more durable, reusable, easier to repair and recycle. by promoting the use of sustainable fibres, we are taking the first step on that path. in addition, one of the proposals encourages the strengthening of the role of specialised companies that collect and reuse textiles and the need to familiarise them with the legal obligations and objectives of waste collection and management. of course, we must not forget the textile workers who most often come from third countries where there is not a high level of protection and labour rights as is present in the european union. trade agreements with third countries should take this reality into account and encourage our partners to be environmentally and socially responsible. and to conclude, each of us can contribute to the wider use of sustainable textiles, and that's why i urge you to buy responsibly.
i have to say, madam president, fashion is a great thing. who can deny that? but like so many things, if you look behind the scenes, you can see that our fast fashion has a price tag. the production takes place in poor working conditions, some of which are not worthy of human beings, and it has a very high impact on the environment, as evidenced by the high consumption of raw materials, energy and water, as well as water pollution and high greenhouse gas emissions. the clothes are often of poor quality. it induces wasteful and unnecessary buying behavior. it is therefore high time that this sector underwent a radical change. we need human rights due diligence and environmental efficiency along the entire value chain, a true circular economy that focuses on waste minimisation and resource conservation and promotes the principles of reuse, repair and recycling. pollutants must be radically eliminated as must microplastics and consumers must know what they are buying through clear labelling. so, commissioner, take this opportunity to make an ambitious proposal worthy of the name sustainability! we're here for you!
madam president, textiles are growing environmental harm, as we have heard many times already today here in the plenary, and it is up to buildings and food on the scale of circular economy and resource efficiency of the material consumption what we have globally. it is championing to be the first or the second in chemicalisation, in water consumption, in waste problems and in co2 emissions. should i continue? and what is the problem with the textiles is that basically everything goes wrong with the textiles. it is from sourcing to the whole processing of the materials, and we know all the social and chemical and other problems there. and it is up to very short use of the textiles itself and then the very unproper discarding of that material. and when you add up that with the extremely increased use of the model fashion and textiles, we can see a blowing catastrophe just in front of our eyes. so because of that, i would like to thank and congratulate the commission and commissioner to coming up with this textile strategy that the parliament has been calling for several times. and i hope that with this strategy, the commission would set vital requirements and then the voluntary action. we need them both. and let me describe very briefly a couple of those. we need to act on the sourcing and to put the regulatory framework what is sustainable sourcing on the quality, durability, and longevity of the materials. we need to set up a proper life-cycle analysis to support it. we need to prolong the use, and there the target should be that the hub of the textiles by 2030 should be served as services. we need to reuse, recycle and then refibre back to the use, so with the target with the tenfold resource efficiency. and to conclude, there needs to be minimum regulation on social and environmental standards and the neglect should be criminalised. but we need the voluntary actions, that is the disclosure regulation, due diligence, taxonomy and csrd that the textiles should be included in.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. how old do you think this jacket i'm wearing is? it looks like new, i'd say you saw it yesterday. but the jacket is actually older than me. and that's a quality of life that i don't see in new products in the fashion industry anymore. fast fashion is a crime against the environment, against the people who produce for us, and against all consumers. that is why quality, rather than quantity, is the policy objective we must pursue. commissioner, you have it in your hands. the eu textile strategy must be legally binding on reducing the absolute consumption of resources in the textile sector and promote a race to the top in the longevity of clothing, because only this is sustainable. so make sure that every piece of clothing can also become a legacy. we owe it to the people in our supply chains and to the environment.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you again for putting the eu strategy for sustainable and circular textiles on today’s agenda. addressing the impacts of this sector is a key part of our response to the environment and climate challenges of our times, and thank you for recalling the various challenges and also opportunities involved. i can assure you that we are on the same line as regards our ambition to protect the environment and to give our citizens long-lasting and quality textiles. and i fully share your sense of urgency too, and i can assure you we have a good plan. our vision is that all textile products placed on the eu market should be durable, repairable and recyclable to a great extent made of recycled fibres and free of hazardous substances, that consumers benefit longer from high quality textiles, that fast fashion is out of fashion and economically profitable reuse and repair services are widely available. in a competitive, resilient and innovative textile sector, producers should take responsibility for their products along the value chain, including when they become waste. in this way, the circular textile ecosystem can thrive with growing capacities for innovative fibre-to-fibre recycling. the incineration and landfilling of textiles has to be reduced to the minimum. with these goals in view, we expect the upcoming strategy to initiate the transformation of the sector, to foster concerted action across the sectors and across policies, and with everyone on board, policymakers, local authorities, citizens, businesses and entrepreneurs, scientists and researchers, we are intensively working on finalising the strategy. and you will see it very soon as part of the package of the circular economy initiatives. now, let me briefly address some of the key points you raised in today’s debate. first of all, i’m aware that some of you are very engaged with the textile sector and thus you know your contribution is crucial. the green and digital transition of the textile ecosystem is a key priority for us. the twin transitions will demand the textile industry to reshape their business models, integrate the proper technologies, ensuring a more efficient production process and more sustainable products, and develop the right skills to manage this transition. and to support the textiles ecosystems in its greening and digitalisation efforts, the commission is preparing the ground for a transition pathway. the transition pathway aims to identify with stakeholders what specific actions and commitments are needed to accompany the green and digital transitions. the co-creation of the transition pathway will kick-off during the second quarter of 2022. speaking about the concrete programmes, there are a number of projects in the textile sectors that the eu has funded and will continue to do so. under horizon europe, there was programme from 2021 to 2022, which set out calls focusing on reality of textile value chains. there is an example of a project to develop nanomaterials, so really going into innovative areas. i cannot list all the projects that we have supported under horizon europe, under life, also under pulse. but i can assure you that this is a priority, and i think with our strategy it will continue to do so and more and more projects will be launched. continuing, the commission will continue to support, of course, research and investments and innovation through a series of eu initiatives aiming at strengthening also digital and sustainable technologies. and moreover, member states have a key role to play in supporting research and innovation, including by using loans and grants of the recovery and resilience facility, and i am happy to see that some countries are already going in this direction. the skills aspects is important for textile ecosystems and up- and re-skilling is yet another tool to empower women who represent two-thirds of the workforce. our collective efforts need to result in making the ecosystem attractive to skilled and young entrepreneurs, and the ecosystem employees. the textile industry needs to take advantage of the employment opportunities brought by the digital and green transitions. a strong alliance has been built under the eu pact for skills with commitments that now need to be implemented through the national and regional skills partnerships. let me also mention a very important part. the life of a product starts with design. textiles are indeed a key product to be addressed under the broader ecodesign framework, and we are going to propose this together with the strategy. binding product specific eco design requirements can increase textiles’ performance in terms of durability, reusability, fibre-to-fibre recyclability and mandatory recycled fibre content. and we can strive to minimise and track the presence of substances of concern and reduce adverse impacts on climate and environment. we also can take measures to stop the destruction of unsold or returned textiles. we can have better transparency on the number of textile products big companies discard and destroy. citizens should also know how these products are treated in terms of preparing for re-use, recycling, incineration or landfill. we can also do much more in terms of information to consumers through a digital product passport and labelling. all these aspects have a place in a future-oriented textile strategy. you also spoke about sustainable sourcing, both in social and environmental terms, human rights’ worsening condition. the european commission has presented a legislative proposal on sustainable corporate governance. it is part of the implementation of the european green deal. it’s a corporate sustainability due diligence obligation – a duty to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for actual and potential adverse sustainability impacts in companies’ own operations and their supply or value chains. let me also highlight a very important and powerful tool – extend the product’s responsibility. it can be a really effective instrument to improve waste management and work well together with other measures such as separate collection, pay-as-you-throw schemes and targets. epr (extended producer responsibility) schemes can also improve design and support waste prevention objectives. we are aware of member states planning to set up epr schemes for textiles and france already has it in place for several years. we will consider the role of epr as a tool to improve textile waste prevention and waste management in the context of the waste legislation review foreseen in 2023. microplastic pollution. it is indeed a source of serious and growing concern. it has become widespread in the environment, and one of the main sources of the unintentional release of microplastics are textiles made of synthetic fibres. about 60% of fibres used in clothing are synthetic, of which polyester is predominant and this amount is growing. synthetic fibres shed into the environment at different stages of the textile lifecycle. reduction measures can therefore target the design of products, improve manufacturing processes and pre-washing in industrial manufacturing plants, labelling and the promotion of innovative materials. further options include washing machine filters, which can reduce release from laundering by up to 80%, development of mild detergents, caretaking and washing guidelines, end-of-life textile waste treatment and regulations for improved wastewater and sewage sludge treatment. the proposal introduces corporate sustainability due diligence obligations, a horizontal cross-sectoral duty to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for actual and potential adverse sustainability impacts in companies’ operations. so, the textile sector was identified as a priority sector for its implementation. sustainability and circularity of the textile sector in europe and the world is critical to address current environmental challenges, and this needs to become a joint endeavour, together with business, public authorities and consumers. and i’m glad to count on the european parliament’s support to this goal, and it will be essential to mobilise, first of all, our citizens, in particular, our young generation. so with this, let me conclude and really thank you for today’s exchange, for your work and for such a passionate approach to this topic.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on the situation of journalists and human rights defenders in mexico (2022/2580 ((rsp)) *.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, article 19 of the universal declaration of human rights states that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes not being harassed because of their opinions, to seek and receive information and opinions, and to disseminate them by any means of expression. it is clear that freedom of expression and freedom of information are key to the exercise of an emancipated journalism, capable of reporting objectively on the facts that affect the lives of citizens, including the activities of their rulers and thus establishing a path for the permanent accountability of the leadership, which translates into an effective strengthening of democracy. when the dissemination of information exposes corruption and the nefarious plots of organized crime, the office of informing suffers threats and even assassinations, a situation aggravated when governments are involved in it, by action or omission, ignoring the gravity of such a situation for the welfare of the rule of law and democracy. in the european parliament we know that the critical situation facing journalists and the media in mexico is unfortunately longstanding. but today we are watching in amazement how since the change of government three years ago, the murders of these professionals have tripled and, in the first months of this year alone, we have had almost one murder per week. it is inexplicable, in the face of this tragic situation, the presidential rhetoric against journalists and the media. we deplore the creation of state platforms to expose, stigmatize and attack journalists under the pretext of fighting disinformation. more than 90 percent of the crimes that journalists have suffered have not even been investigated. in the face of this unacceptable impunity, we understand the forceful response of a brave mexican journalist to the question: and why is this happening in your country? and he said, "just because you can". we can't go on like this.
author. madam president, commissioner, on 5 july last year a man shot and killed simon peter as he was going to the market. they killed him cowardly, in front of his own son. simón pedro had been president of las abejas de acteal, an indigenous organization that denounced the structural violence in chiapas, through the most radical pacifism. in mexico, defending freedom of expression, the environment or human rights is a job of extremely high risk that can cost lives. according to the latest figures, provided by the secretariat of government of mexico, since december 2018 98 human rights defenders and 54 journalists have been killed and more than 90 percent of the cases remain unpunished. let's be clear: the messages that the mexican president himself sends by criminalizing journalists and civil society organizations must cease and we must demand that all efforts be devoted to building a comprehensive public protection policy that addresses prevention, protection, investigation and reparation. these demands must be a condition for the reform of the comprehensive agreement between the european union and mexico, because believing in the rule of law is precisely that: demanding it within our borders, but also from our closest partners.
author. (start of the intervention outside the microphone) ... resolution on violence against journalism in mexico, which has included other victims of violence. we could have extended the list indefinitely because the brutal violence that is spreading throughout mexico is absolutely incredible and reminds us of the more brutal situations in some other countries, where these have directly collapsed law and order already. journalism has a special character there, because although we have victims - as i say - throughout the mexican geography and, in some states, organized crime, allied in large part with the public authorities, has already seized effective power and directly kills anyone who opposes or bothers him, journalists are a special case because they are the object of direct harassment, of signaling by the authorities in the capital. and they are directly - and this is a rather unheard of case in a democracy - by the president of the republic. the direct, personalized accusations made by president lópez obrador against the press in mexico is something absolutely as i say unheard of that must be denounced by everyone; we must strongly ask this head of state to return to a reasonable behavior of protection of journalists, of searching for the guilty of the many murders, in 96% not clarified, to look for the responsible and not to pour more gasoline on what is a great pyramid in which the freedoms of mexicans are consumed. it cannot be that mexico falls into the same spiral, with the same rhetoric, that venezuela is in.
author. – madam president, a year ago, the military of myanmar seized power through a coup d’état and arrested the state counsellor, aung san suu kyi, and the president. in august, the commander-in-chief of the army announced he was appointing himself prime minister and since then a mass protest movement has taken to the streets and protested for a return to a democratically elected civilian government. since the coup, military authorities have once again perpetrated crimes against humanity, war crimes and other serious violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. human rights violations, in particular against the rohingya, have continued. we support the eu-adopted the sanctions against those involved in serious human rights violations in myanmar, but we cannot limit the scope and not give a look at whom. the derogation that explicitly allows eu oil and gas operators remaining in myanmar is unacceptable and must be suppressed. it’s time for peace and democracy in myanmar and that will only arrive along with demilitarisation, dialogue, diplomacy and international law. europe should make pressure to the tatmadaw to immediately stop repression against peaceful activists and members of the public in general and transfer powers to the organised civil society. that is the only way forward acceptable.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. after the ceasefire and the unbearable victory cry from baku in november 2020, the south caucasus is still as fragile as ever, including fighting. the destruction of petrified history and its subsequent falsification by azerbaijan are unacceptable. ethnic homogeneity is a racist fiction. it explains the boundaries of nation states nowhere in the world. the cultural identities of peoples are a mix of positive migration history, of a careful handling of reminders, of war and expulsion. images, songs and meeting places have captured what reconciliation and peace look like in everyday life. today's resolution calls for the inclusion of experts under the umbrella of unesco and for the protection of civil society organisations. the aim is to map and preserve the cultural heritage of the regions, especially around nagorno-karabakh and nakhchivan. the minsk group and the osce must also act as mediators in order to ensure stability in the region in the long term. the destruction of cultural property is a symbol of superiority thought, and it is systematically used in wars. and that's why it's all of our business. everywhere.
madam president, in these days, we are all deeply moved by the criminal invasion of ukraine, for which putin created unacceptable justifications. he falsified the past, bending history to his propaganda needs, and he is trying to prevent a sovereign country from choosing its own future. similar trends are present in nagorno-karabakh, where azerbaijan’s authorities are trying to eradicate the cultural heritage of the autochthonous armenian population in the territories they occupied with brute force. monuments, medieval monasteries, churches, tombs: there is no respect for either the living or the dead. cancelling the past, their leadership intends to criminally justify the future they have in mind for the region, and we cannot accept and let it happen. from this house we must speak clearly. we call on the azerbaijan authorities to immediately halt this barbaric vandalism and to open a constructive and inclusive dialogue in the region. furthermore, we encourage unesco to put in place its fact-finding mission, and we must support their endeavours, also taking a strong position vis-à-vis baku’s reluctance to allow such deployment. as the roman philosopher cicero said, history is the witness of time, the light of truth, the teacher of life and is committed to immortality. therefore, it cannot be rewritten to justify expansionist and imperialistic ambitions.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. ladies and gentlemen! in nagorno-karabakh, cemeteries, churches and historical buildings are being destroyed, armenian cultural and religious heritage is being destroyed - these are not only senseless acts of vandalism, but above all acts of violence. it's not about the buildings, it's about the people. cultural heritage is a very important part of the identity of entire communities. its destruction is therefore an attempt to exclude and destroy all traces of another culture and identity, which only fuels mutual hatred and hostility. we say no to that today. we call on the azerbaijani authorities to take immediate action to prevent and punish acts of vandalism. the european union should use the tools at its disposal to put pressure on the azerbaijani authorities and make a clear demand for action. it may also be very important to send a mission of independent experts from unesco to nagorno-karabakh. this would allow an estimate of the scale of the event and the losses. it's about more than buildings, and even more than their historical or artistic value. it's about respect, tolerance and equality - values we must defend.
madam president, the armenian people have known the worst with the genocides perpetrated by turkey in 1915, and they have longed for freedom and democracy. two years after the azeri attack supported by turkey against the people of artsakh, the armenian people and its cultural heritage are still under threat. in this context, we firstly call on azerbaijan to discard once and for all its militaristic approach and territorial claims in armenia and engage in good faith in negotiations and under the osce minsk group on the final status of nagorno-karabakh. it’s essential to respect the right to self-determination of nagorno-karabakh as a democratic principle in order to deal with conflicts in a democratic way. we cannot accept azerbaijan’s stance and we must send a clear message. azerbaijan must stop attacking and denying the existence of nagorno-karabakh as a fully independent political entity. azerbaijan must be respectful of the people of artsakh and international law.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to debate in the european parliament a disease, chronic kidney disease, which affects between 75 and 100 million european citizens, which is underdiagnosed to a high degree because we do not put in place the right means and which, in some cases, can be prevented. the commissioner said that the european plan to fight cancer also intervenes in the field of prevention with recommendations on public health. but, well, we've already seen that it hasn't been ambitious enough; i think that by being ambitious in that prevention as well, we can actually reduce chronic kidney disease. chronic kidney patients, on the other hand, suffer, suffer a lot during their illness. treatments are expensive, difficult, sometimes require travel, and many times live with the anxiety of a transplant. but despite all that, everyone wants and everyone needs the possibility of getting treatment. and there are many inequalities in europe in access to those treatments. we therefore ask the commission to draw up an action and investment plan. we know that horizon europe is doing this, but it must also take account of some of the initiatives that exist in the various european countries. i come from a country, spain, where we have a pride: our national transplant organization, which sets records at european and world level. that's a model that can be followed in europe to pursue equality. but let's not get out of focus. we need new treatments and new treatment opportunities for these patients, and we need research to continue and research to be done into the causes of the disease, because sometimes it helps the treatment. i want to remember those patients that i've ever treated or who were on dialysis and had to travel miles and miles, or who were on a transplant waiting list, like my friend fermin de o'corpiño, who finally got it and has improved his quality of life. that is what i hope for all europeans. let's get down to business.
madam president, i too would have liked mrs von der leyen to be here to explain. three years ago, he came to us with a story about alice in wonderland, with a series of priorities that have been shown to be radically wrong priorities that have brought us to where we are. of course, one thing is very clear: we are in a situation where it is becoming increasingly clear that if ukraine were a member, a distant province of a federal european union, they would have already made it surrender. ukraine is fighting and ukraine is changing the pulse of europe because it is a nation, because it is a sovereign nation, because it is an independent nation and because it is fighting with its children to maintain that sovereignty and that independence. that's the great lesson we must draw from this war and help them regain that sovereignty and keep all of us sovereign as well.
madam president, the purpose of the financial sanctions that we placed on russia was to crush the financial system. this was our key contribution to the war effort. sadly, we have failed in this mission. in the first ten days of the war, the rouble crashed 17%. since then, it has basically recovered most of that fall. is the financial system in meltdown? no, by no means. why did it fail? why did we fail? the answer is very simple – our sanctions have more holes than a gruyère cheese. two key facts: first, we have only blocked some banks from swift. the rest of the financial system is enough to channel all the payments. second, even as we blocked the existing reserves of the russian central bank, we are adding eur 1 billion more in hard currency every day. to borrow a saying from my dutch friends – this is like mopping the floor with the tap on. it cannot work. mr minister, mr vice-president, there is no such thing as a cheap victory. sanctions with holes are no sanctions at all. freedom is worth much, much more than we have been willing to pay for it until now.
madam president, commissioner, the russian invasion of ukraine has revealed the enormous shortfalls in european agricultural production to ensure the supply of products so necessary not only for people but also for livestock. the rise in the price of raw materials is hurting our farmers and cattle farmers, whose production costs are skyrocketing. and, to all this, the crisis has been aggravated by the immense drought in countries such as portugal, spain, italy or france. we have heard today of the measures taken by the commission, some of them temporary, such as the use of fallow land. but what the commission really should have done was to stop and change the farm to table and biodiversity strategies in the face of this crisis. because what cannot be temporary is that europe's agriculture is dependent on energy or on imported feed. our farmers know how to do their job very well. let them do it. there's enough land to avoid that extreme dependency. let's put them to work, let's take this opportunity that we have to be self-sufficient. food security is a priority, but the most urgent thing, ladies and gentlemen, the most urgent thing at the moment is food supplies, and to do this it is essential to increase the area of land under production.
madam president, commissioner, exceptional measures for exceptional situations. the primary sector has been accumulating losses for years and today faces escalating fuel, electricity and fertilizer prices. an escalation that is already translating into strikes, shortages and food crises. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. it seems to forget that this situation is not just the product of war, but of an unsustainable and dependent production model. energy dependence, structural and endemic; dependence on the global market and dependence on chemicals to produce food because we have devastated our territories. if we had not been late in diagnosing and solving the problem, we would not be so vulnerable and at the mercy of the whims of a satrap. so, be careful, because it's not about erasing the tracks, it's about learning the lesson. the farm-to-table strategy is not a mistake we are going to correct; the mistake has been not to have implemented it much earlier. today we must stand with the farmers, the cattle farmers and the fishermen. but the urgent, which is urgent - and a lot - is not incompatible with the important.
madam president, mr putin's invasion has awakened many europeans from their dream of prosperity and plenty and brought us back to reality. we europeans have had to rearrange our priorities into forced marches to worry about the eating thing, literally. today, the food supply for millions of europeans is not guaranteed. and not just for europeans, it is not for the millions of ukrainian refugees who are coming to our countries, for the millions of ukrainians who are resisting in devastated cities, or for the millions of north africans who depended on russian and ukrainian grain to survive. as the great agro-food power we are, europeans have a historic responsibility to ensure food for all. but to do that we need our farmers, our ranchers and our industry to produce at their best. we cannot therefore tie them up with regulations that restrict their productive capacity. we cannot therefore put our food security at risk with any of the initiatives contained in the european green deal.
madam president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the negotiating team which, after complex talks, has reached a balanced compromise which ensures the continuity of roaming for another ten years, avoiding any interruption of this achievement for consumers. the roaming policy is a european achievement which we must continue to defend so that consumers can continue to use their mobile phones when travelling in the european union without any surprises or additional charges. the agreement reached in a tripartite dialogue which i had the honour to chair guarantees the right to the same quality and speed of mobile connection when travelling to other member states as at home, and progressively reduces wholesale roaming charges, free access to emergency services, including for people with special needs, and provides for the commission to assess whether there is a need to further reduce the surcharges for international calls within the union. for all these reasons, i think we should vote in favour of the agreement which ensures the continuity of the roaming policy as at home, and thus keep the great success visible to european citizens within the digital single market.
in writing. the suisse secrets investigation covers more than 18 000 hidden credit suisse accounts which have accumulated funds of more than 100 billion dollars and which the bank kept open despite the warning signs. in many cases, they belonged to clients accused of serious crimes or linked to autocratic regimes. it is vital to prevent banking from helping criminals and kleptocrats - including russian oligarchs with links to putin - to hide their illegal fortunes and take stakes in key sectors, endangering the security of our citizens and our economies. the s&d group is therefore leading the fight against money laundering: our counterparts in the lbc regulation and directives will push for a stricter regime in the eu, limiting the discretion of banks in dealing with high-risk clients. we will also propose that the eu has more powerful tools to act against entities in third countries. we also demand that switzerland adopt laws to protect whistleblowers and repeal the excessive penalties for breach of banking secrecy. finally, we ask eba to investigate the possible existence of accounts in credit suisse's eu subsidiaries involved in the scandal.
in writing. the suisse secrets investigation covers more than 18 000 hidden credit suisse accounts which at times accumulated funds of more than 100 billion dollars and which the bank kept open despite the warning signs. in many cases, they belonged to clients accused of serious crimes (torture, human trafficking or murder) or linked to autocratic regimes. it is vital to prevent banking from helping criminals and kleptocrats - including russian oligarchs with links to putin - to hide their illegal fortunes and take stakes in key sectors, endangering the security of our citizens and our economies. the s&d group is therefore leading the fight against money laundering: our counterparts in the lbc regulation and directives will push for a stricter regime in the eu, limiting the discretion of banks in dealing with high-risk clients. we will also propose that the eu has more powerful tools to act against entities in third countries. this scandal reopens the debate on whether switzerland should be included in the list of high-risk countries, as long as it maintains its banking secrecy and its supervisor does not act diligently. we also call on switzerland to adopt laws to protect whistleblowers.
madam president, in recent months the profits of the electricity companies in my country have quadrupled and those of some oil companies have doubled. meanwhile, industry is shut down, ships are not sailing and prices in the supermarket skyrocket. in a few weeks, your economic model has led us to an unbearable impoverishment. and of course, there's a common denominator that allows the multinational energy companies to get rich and putin to blackmail us: their pricing model. however, you who are quick to agree on the distribution of european funds among the war lobbies, the multinational energy companies or the financial sector, are not able to provide solutions for working people these days. ladies and gentlemen of the commission and the council, stop being trapped and make decisions. do something. for example, they start by allocating the profits of these multinationals to the needs of the most affected people and end the marginalist market once and for all.
madam president, if the pandemic has taught us anything, it's that joint action leads to joint solutions that benefit everyone. and we have been saying for a long time that energy prices are a problem. putin has been playing with gas prices for too long and now we must not allow that. we must now, once and for all, find the price that gas stations can offer to the electricity mix and decouple the price of gas from that of electricity, but at the same time take steps to contain the price that consumers pay for fossil fuels. because this problem, which we have already raised here on several occasions, is going to be reproduced throughout europe. people are already taking to the streets in some countries. let us think of the citizens, let us think of the fact that they will be less likely to pay for the whole crisis that we are going to live through because of this war. we can do it together. now is the time. otherwise we shall have these eternal debates here about the same situation and the same problem, but with increasing sharpness. i think it is our responsibility to go down and see what is happening in the citizenship and take measures in accordance with the current situation, on which we also, yes, we must do pedagogy. we are in a war situation and we must be brave and firm in our decisions.
madam president, europe should never again be dependent on a tyrant like putin. we must aim for a genuine interconnected common energy market. gas interconnection with an infrastructure like step is necessary to connect spain and portugal with the rest of europe. we must act now. families and businesses are desperate because of the price increases. inflation is a brutal tax that impoverishes us all with each passing day. the repower eu plan to ensure security of supply and affordability will be key. but the european commission must act more quickly and more effectively; otherwise it will be late. but we must also ask the member states to reduce taxes on fuels and energy and to provide more aid to the sectors concerned. unfortunately, in spain we are suffering from the inaction of president sánchez. it is in your hands to eliminate non-energy electricity bill costs, lower taxes on fuel and even more on electricity. farmers, ranchers, fishermen and transporters need measures now, but they only receive contempt from the sanchez government.
madam president, commissioner, the crisis we are in was foreseeable not only in wartime, when the european union depends on suppliers to a very large extent, any businessman knows that there is a risk. i am glad that you have introduced between the three pillars and more affordable prices, but commissioner, what is accessible to luxembourg is not accessible to the citizens of my country and we must clearly see here how no one is left behind, because that is our slogan, right? and then i think we should learn from the mistakes made because, here in my country, you pressured the country to stop mining coal, instead we import coal from russia. we need to have an energy union, commissioner, and an energy union that can be accessible to all european citizens regardless of the region and country in which they live. that is why i am calling for a system to control energy prices. i'm a former businessman, i understand what the market economy means, but i understand that in a crisis we cannot let those who charge 10-15 times higher prices get rich.
madam president, today's summit must decide immediately on measures to shield citizens and the european economy as a whole, such as common gas markets and the creation of strategic reserves, financial instruments such as eurobonds and the financing of support instruments, investments to make us less dependent on fossil fuels in a socially just and sustainable way. finally, the recovery fund should focus on investments that upgrade networks, making renewable energy production accessible to all citizens, not just the few. but also at national level: the reduction of vat on basic necessities, the imposition of an emergency tax on the surpluses of energy companies for the entire period of the crisis and the retail price cap, in the adjustment clause. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the european commission has recently presented a joint action for more affordable, secure and sustainable energy, which includes a plan to make europe independent of russian fossil fuels well before 2030, and in the short term to respond to the increase in energy prices in europe and to replenish gas reserves for the coming winter: the repowereu plan. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the current economic crisis. in the face of rising energy prices, which are particularly hard on citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises, it is essential to change the marginalist market model with greater public control and to increase the taxation of the "dividends from the sky" as they are called from large electricity companies. and, in the same way, it is vital to accelerate the green energy transition, without compromising biodiversity and prioritizing the development of renewable energy communities. i would also like to say that in this energy context it does not seem the wisest thing to provoke the wrath of one of our main gas suppliers, algeria, gratuitously. president sanchez's decision on western sahara is not only contrary to international law but is also clumsy and will cause further difficulties in europe's energy supply.
in writing. following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply. we, the socialists in parliament, are in favour of the need for solutions to deal with the rise in energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. the union must act now, in a united and coordinated way, to curb the price escalation that is weighing down the economy of citizens and businesses. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies by short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia. in this respect, spain can play a very important role in diversification, as it has a large lng (liquified natural gas) infrastructure, including around 30% of the union's regasification capacity. but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
in writing. following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply. the socialists in parliament argue for the need for solutions to tackle rising energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. the union must act now, in a united and coordinated way, to curb the price escalation that is weighing down the economy of citizens and businesses. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia. in this respect, spain can play a very important role in diversification, as it has a large lng (liquified natural gas) infrastructure, including around 30% of the union's regasification capacity. but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
in writing. following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply. the socialists in parliament argue for the need for solutions to tackle rising energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. the union must act now, in a united and coordinated way, to curb the price escalation that is weighing down the economy of citizens and businesses. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia. in this respect, spain can play a very important role in diversification, as it has a large lng (liquified natural gas) infrastructure, including around 30% of the union's regasification capacity. but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
in writing. following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply. the socialists in parliament argue for the need for solutions to tackle rising energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. the union must act now, in a united and coordinated way, to curb the price escalation that is weighing down the economy of citizens and businesses. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia. in this respect, spain can play a very important role in diversification, as it has a large lng (liquified natural gas) infrastructure, including around 30% of the union's regasification capacity. but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
in writing. following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply. the socialists in parliament argue for the need for solutions to tackle rising energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. the union must act now, in a united and coordinated way, to curb the price escalation that is weighing down the economy of citizens and businesses. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia. in this respect, spain can play a very important role in diversification, as it has a large lng (liquified natural gas) infrastructure, including around 30% of the union's regasification capacity. but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
in writing. following the russian invasion of ukraine, the european union has worked to address russia's high energy dependence and the associated alarming price increases, as well as to ensure energy security and supply. the socialists in parliament argue for the need for solutions to tackle rising energy prices, and in particular electricity prices. the union must act now, in a united and coordinated way, to curb the price escalation that is weighing down the economy of citizens and businesses. these solutions include accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies and short-term measures to decouple the price of gas from electricity. at the same time, we must diversify our energy supplies and eliminate our energy dependence on russia. in this respect, spain can play a very important role in diversification, as it has a large lng (liquified natural gas) infrastructure, including around 30% of the union's regasification capacity. but to take advantage of these existing energy infrastructures, the union needs to increase energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, we are once again meeting at a defining moment in european history. the terrible invasion of ukraine, with millions of women and children fleeing the country, forces us to react, to move quickly, and tests our solidarity once again. i'm glad to see that europe will not disappoint. i congratulate you, commissioner, because if europe is to be useful, it must be flexible and today, with cohesion policy, we are demonstrating this. the initiative we are adopting today, care, will enable the european regions to finance the entire cost of the humanitarian crisis. we talk about education, about field hospitals, about shelters... in short, we are talking about integration. but this initiative, as it stands today, is not enough. first, we need more funds for the border regions. poland alone has received two million refugees. secondly, we must review the time limits we are giving the regions to justify expenditure: i hope that is not necessary, but everything seems to indicate that this crisis will continue beyond the summer. and thirdly, we must also support those who are suffering the most from the collateral damage of this invasion. we are already seeing it: small businesses and households are unable to cope with the unstoppable rise in the price of fuel and energy. a dramatic situation which is a new blow to the countryside, to the hauliers and to industry. the funds reaching businesses and families will be key to society standing up to the onslaught of the war economy. the brave ukrainians and the countries that host them need us and standing by them will be a test of solidarity and strength for the whole european union.
mr president, commissioners, the war in ukraine has already caused thousands of deaths among the civilian population, including young people and children, and has forced more than four million people to flee and seek protection in europe. of these four million, two million are of school age and, according to unicef, 90% of the refugees are women and children. according to reports from various ngos, many of the refugees are unaccompanied minors, who are particularly vulnerable to trafficking, abuse and sexual exploitation. it is essential to ensure the protection of all these children and to ensure that their rights are fully respected, also with a gender perspective. this is why the work that unicef and unhcr are doing, together with governments and civil society organisations in border countries, to create so-called 'blue dots' - safe spaces along the border crossings for children and women - is vital. the devastating consequences of this war will not be resolved in the immediate future alone. we need to anticipate and look ahead to implement reception and integration policies at national and local level, such as access to education and employment opportunities, family reunification, psychological support and basic services. we are not only losing lives, but also futures, and it is our duty to ensure that all children fleeing war in europe find the peaceful and safe environment to which they are entitled. so that they all go back to class. so that the european union is a place where it is possible to imagine a future.
mr president, commissioner johansson, thank you for your presence and for your speech. more than a million ukrainian children are in the european union. we do not know how long the conflict will last and their right to education must be guaranteed, in any case. but it is also important to note that this education is deserved by all refugee children fleeing wars, whether they are ukrainian, syrian, afghan or of any nationality. it is therefore unacceptable that african students living in ukraine, who are also fleeing the war, have been sent to detention centres in poland and are therefore unable to continue their lives and their studies in this country or in the european union. we also know of cases of whole families of syrians with small children, with young people, also detained in some countries of the union, on the border with belarus and with ukraine. we cannot have a system in europe based on discrimination on two levels of action. we must guarantee the rights of all refugees, of children, of course, but in general of all age groups. for that we also need a european assistance plan to deal with the millions of refugees we have in europe, but also to deal with the energy price crisis and the investment crisis, which are inevitable also in our defence union, to help free ukraine in its heroic defence of its sovereignty and its territorial integrity.
mr president, yesterday the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change made it clear in its report that we have time to stop climate change, but to do so we must decarbonise life and the economy, that is to say, we must stop burning gas, oil and coal, and we must also hurry because we are running out of time. however, here we are, talking about how to invest european public money, everyone's money, in building new infrastructure to continue burning gas, infrastructure that will inevitably make our energy model for the next decades continue to pollute and, of course, give millions of dollars in profits to the electricity oligopoly: a mistake and a contradiction with the objectives of reducing emissions. frankly, after the ipcc report, which points to the abyss, and the war in ukraine has shown how vulnerable we are to dependence on gas, it does not seem sensible that we should continue to talk about strengthening infrastructures that will weaken us over the years; on the contrary, our debates and proposals should focus on promoting a strong, distributed and public renewable energy network.
mr president, there will be no real single european energy market without interconnections. we're not going to get the benefit of renewables if we don't interconnect and integrate electricity grids. we're living now the mistakes of the past. we're betting on fossil fuels, which are becoming a weapon of war, and that increases our energy dependence and, by the way, the prices that consumers pay. the ipcc report was clear yesterday: more renewables, less fossils. the funds are limited and we must target our investments towards elements that are compatible with climate neutrality. let's focus on the best parts of this legislation: the deployment and integration of renewable technologies with the new offshore energy provisions, the more inclusive governance process, the application of the energy efficiency principle and the promotion of hydrogen-only compatible infrastructure when we transport gas. to achieve a true union of energy, we must focus on solving the bottlenecks we have, as in the iberian peninsula with the islands. we can't go on like this. that is not a true european energy market.
madam president, i have a 12-year-old daughter. she could have been one of the girls who marched in afghanistan to go to school. one of the beaten, arrested or missing. he doesn't know what he wants to be when he grows up, but he's cultivating his dreams and imagining endless worlds of possibilities. there is nothing more sadistic than controlling women by amputating their future from childhood; robbing them of their mornings to annul their personality and enslave them. before the taliban regime came to power, 88,000 women were studying at the university. a significant percentage of them worked and held public office. today, most have not been able to return to their jobs and we do not know if they will ever do so. the country is impoverished by crushing the talent of women, but the drive to dominate them is such that 85% of men still believe that they should not work. they don't mind being poorer if it ensures their particular labor and sexual servitude. that's why they don't want girls to go to school, because that's where they start to build themselves as women in a world without owners.
madam president, madam commissioner, in the last twenty years some 3.3 million afghan girls have gained access to education and women have been able to take an active part in the political, economic and social life of the country. they were timid advances, but they were advances nonetheless. since the taliban came to power, the vulnerability of girls and women in afghanistan has continued to worsen. the vast majority of them have been forced to leave school, university or their jobs, and those who dare to speak out face torture or death. for all these reasons, the european union must make any contact with the regime conditional on respect for human rights, with particular attention to girls and women. and we also need to apply the same empathy and welcoming attitude that we have shown in the case of ukraine. let's put the double standards behind us. europe must move towards a genuine asylum and migration policy that puts rights and people first.
madam president, madam commissioner, we are debating and voting today on the third resolution on the situation in afghanistan, the second since the taliban took full control of the country. we must keep our eyes and our minds on afghanistan, which is suffering from one of the world's greatest humanitarian crises. at eight months it's only getting worse and almost 95 percent of the population doesn't have enough food. the most vulnerable: women and girls, as always; hence the importance of this debate. and people who are already selling their sons and daughters and parts of their bodies to feed their families. parliament has four priorities. firstly, more budget for humanitarian aid, because in order to deal with the refugee crisis in ukraine we cannot neglect other crises like this. the donor conference this week estimated the aid needed at over $4.4 billion and only half has been raised. the second is political dialogue, so that ngos can continue to be on the ground, and direct funding through ngos. thirdly, the safety of humanitarian workers. fourth: focusing international pressure to get girls back in school. it's a universal right and not a privilege based on gender. peaceful afghanistan, inclusive afghanistan cannot be done without women. let's work for it.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, our presidents charles michel and ursula von der leyen have done what we have asked them to do: they were tough on xi jinping and made it crystal clear that we expect china to help end putin’s war. but, colleagues, xi jinping did not move an inch. on the contrary. the chinese foreign minister declared there was no ceiling for china-russia cooperation. and even after the massacre in bucha, china has still not condemned the russian invasion. can you imagine? china is playing, if you ask me, a cynical game. it expects that both europe and russia will be weakened as a result of the war. western sanctions will make russia more dependent on china and the eu will have to deal with the refugee crisis, high fuel prices and economic decline. let’s face the truth: china does not act like a partner; it acts like a rival. after the crackdown on hong kong and repression in xinjiang, china is again placing itself on the wrong side of history. xi’s end game is the end of the liberal rules—based world order. in our report, colleagues – and i see a lot of colleagues who worked on the report – we call for a more assertive strategy to become less dependent from china. we don’t want a full decoupling from china. let us speed up this process and learn from our experiences with that other autocratic regime. the cynical truth is that by being so dependent on russian gas, we are enabling this war. so let us not make this mistake again. i call on the commission to come forward with an analysis of the sectors in which china can hurt us. and to propose a counterstrategy. let us start to protect ourselves. if we care about our freedom, we had better prepare for the worst.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, as the commission and the eeas announced before, this was not a ‘business as usual’ summit. it was certainly no ‘panda hugging’ event. it was more tense and more controversial than at any time before. i’m happy that the european side did raise all the hot button issues, as you said, high representative. i want to thank you for that. i also want to thank you for the support that you have given to those sanctioned, wherever they are. this online summit will, in hindsight, be seen as the one moment in which both eu and china dropped any illusion about win—win cooperation. no more ‘go along to get along’, no covering up the deep divisions. we clearly are in rivalry territory now. it has been china’s behaviour vis—à—vis russia’s aggression against ukraine that finally laid bare how big the distance has grown. china has formed a revisionist axis with putin to overturn the multilateral rules—based order. china objected, together with russia, against the european security order. china, in the case of lithuania, also dared attacking the holy grail of the european union – namely the single market. there is clearly a need for us to push back, and i like mr winkler’s language about the push—back, and there shouldn’t be any hesitancy. we should not just implicitly talk about possible sanctions if they support russia, but explicitly. xi jinping played hardball at the summit. he played a cynical game. he demonstrated that he does not respect the eu as a partner. they do not want to accept who we are. but when they call for more autonomy, they will get a real geopolitical player. we will have to realise that the tough summit was just the opening of an era in which tough is the new normal, and we need one common european china policy to master that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, certainly a recent summit with the people’s republic of china (prc) was very special. since the full-scale unprovoked invasion of ukraine by russia, we look towards policies, statements and the strategic stance of the prc with increased concern, noting declarations in beijing, its behaviour at the level of the un and also practical actions taken. we hope, though, that this efficient diplomacy is not willing to align with the war crimes and crimes against humanity, in particular with the position in the un security council. here in the european parliament, we stand by the mature democracy of taiwan. we support uyghurs, and we monitor closely their fate in the prc. we also stand by the activists and human rights defenders in hong kong, tibet, and in other parts of the prc. we are going to continue this advocacy. it is to be taken by eu leaders in general – not just in the remit of the human rights dialogue.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. president xi jinping reminded the eu-china summit - well aware of the systemic rivalry and economic competitors - that we should not fall back on our old block thinking. we are facing the economic consequences of our absolutely necessary response to the aggression of the putin government against ukraine. the european union and its member states must be able to take a more positive attitude to the people's republic of china in order to be able to deal with it better. i thank you, mr high representative, for making the differences very clear. the summit was an opportunity for chinese politicians and media to highlight the autonomy of european foreign policy, which is defined by the concept of 'open strategic autonomy'. it also includes the one-china policy, which has been the council's common position for decades. and just before the scheduled visit of the un high commissioner for human rights, michelle bachelet, to china and xinjiang in may, it is important to restore the willingness to dialogue. and it was already apparent: hong kong, tibet, xinjiang and not least taiwan have become quasi-symbolic catchwords, which reflect very different perceptions of social values of human rights and historical development, and precisely for this reason in bilateral cooperation need consultation and honest discussions regarding the prospective design of the european-chinese relationship at least. it is good and important that we as the eu help china in its current pandemic situation with mrna vaccines. the aid china has sent to ukraine and to the eu member states with high refugee flows has also been and is an important sign. we also need each other to fight climate change and biodiversity. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-china summit has not produced the results hoped for. but the time for appeals and invitations is over and it is time to use the lever of our commercial power more forcefully to demand from china a clear position condemning the war in ukraine. if china wants to trade with the european union, it must make a precise choice of course, because international law, to paraphrase our late president sassoli, is not an accident of history but the compass by which to orientate our relations. until hostilities cease, russia must be isolated. until now, the eu had hoped that increasing trade in goods and services would be enough to convince our partners to take the path of democracy and respect for human rights: but unfortunately, that approach has failed with russia, and it's not working with china either. we believe that the possibility of trade must be linked to full respect for human rights. we must expect that anyone who does business with us respects people, the environment and international law. only then will trade bring change and peace.
president, high representative, yes, the summit may have come at a good time, but it has led, i think, to a two-way monologue. in a different world with a different chinese leadership, china could play a brilliant role today. it could be that partner who ends the war, who points out to russia its responsibilities and who works for world peace. but that's not true. we all know that china is playing a very ambiguous role, missing the point of its real position and at the same time at home in china launching a campaign to get the population to support putin. and we all know that there is work being done to avoid sanctions and thus to support russia. yes, there must be a dialogue and let europe keep that dialogue open , but it must be based as europe has shown at this summit on what our agenda is: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. let us also work towards that in our trade agenda.
madam president, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the position taken by china in relation to the aggression against ukraine is unfortunately not surprising. but i want to be clear: this war is a watershed in history and the choices our partners make today will shape our political and commercial relationships tomorrow. if china wants to continue with the deal with putin, europe cannot stand by and watch, but this is not the scenario we want. we expect china to exert its influence adequately and to play an active role in bringing the aggressor back to the ceasefire and the peace table. the eu and china have a very complex relationship, both in terms of values and in economic, environmental and trade terms. the chinese sanctions against members of the european parliament, the humanitarian situation of minorities and the potential escalation against taiwan are clear examples of this complexity, and on the other hand, unfair practices, dumping and the infringement of intellectual property. there is also a lot to be done on competition, level playing field, climate objectives, as well as digital and cybersecurity. but we must also have the courage to renegotiate the investment agreement hastily signed at the end of 2020. in short, it is time for europe to take matters into its own hands and to establish a clear and uncompromising relationship with an increasingly hegemonic china.
thank you, ms gregorová. you were right, our high representative had an emergency and had to leave the room for a few minutes. so i suggest we should suspend our discussion for a few minutes until he’s back. would you prefer that?
i repeat that we will suspend the sitting for a few minutes until our high representative is back, because he would like to follow the debate but he had an emergency. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes)
madam president, mr borrell, speaking of the council, of the meeting between the european union and china, we must be pleased to see that we are indeed facing a change of era, that even in the european union people are beginning to perceive and become aware of this terrible change we are witnessing. in the case of china, it had already been felt here in this house. perhaps one of the best things that has been done in this parliament in recent years has been the report on the new strategy with china, in which there was already a clearer and more realistic view of what china is today and the risk it represents. we are now seeing it clearly when it has already really taken the side of an aggressor, of the greatest aggression we have had since the second world war, of the war in ukraine, and we also have serious suspicions that it could imitate russia in taiwan as well. so it's very good that we are aware of this radical change and that, despite our vagaries with the social engineering of the green deal and other issues, we really get into the priorities of things to eat. congratulations to all of you.
madam president, mr high representative, the multilateral system is falling apart; the trump era has deepened this weakening: the withdrawal from the world health organization and the paris agreement, the abandonment of unesco... the fact is that multilateralism requires states to follow international norms and tries to prevent states from being differentiated according to their power or preferences, facing only the law of the strongest or that of the facts, but ensuring that multilateralism is everyone's responsibility, a daily responsibility in foreign policy: action based on principles and values, and not so much on specific situations and interests. the eu-china summit, at an extremely delicate time, is as always welcome. many issues of common interest were mentioned: food security, the fight against climate change, biodiversity... the need to build peace and put an end to the massacre in ukraine was discussed, but it is still striking that the european union made no mention of the need to protect the negotiations and promote dialogue. today, and always, we must defend this multilateral work, as we must demand the same principles from ourselves and from all the countries at these summits: from israel when it besieges the palestinians, or from morocco when it negotiates with resources belonging to western sahara. more multilateralism, more international law for all and by all.
madam president, mr high representative, the european union and china share a very close commercial relationship that we cannot ignore; therefore, we believe that it is good that meetings, such as the last summit, should be held, which should serve to strengthen dialogue and cooperation. a stable relationship with china is crucial for peace and stability: i think it would be a mistake to re-enter the cold war dynamics of either china is with us or we are against china - that gets us nowhere - and i think it would be a mistake to fall back into the temptation of blowing up bridges, especially in a complex context like the present one. we must play an active role in the dialogue process for resolving conflicts; the european union must abandon a vision of blocs and commit itself to building a multipolar world, playing its own role and without following suit: this is essential to safeguard the interests of european workers and businesses and to consolidate a distinctive voice in the midst of so much noise. let us form our own perception of china and pursue an independent policy working for the stable and lasting development of bilateral relations: in the face of the turbulent world situation, let us bet on stability.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you to commissioner dalli, although obviously we thought the police commissioner in charge of the branch, mariya gabriel, would come. but we are equally pleased with your presence. and of course, thanks to the alternative rapporteurs for this report, mr fourlas, mr cicurel, mrs salima yenbou and mr pernando barrena, because they have made a decisive contribution to the report, as have i, as rapporteur. this implementation report starts from the premise that as europeans we face a number of challenges with transnational implications, from climate change to the digital transition. but also, as we've seen, the pandemic and the war. all of these challenges must also be addressed from the perspective of the active and engaged citizens in our education systems, so that those citizens have the tools that allow for informed analysis and the necessary civic and political action to address and overcome them also in a context, unfortunately, of manipulation and misinformation. with the introduction of european citizenship in the maastricht treaty, citizens have rights also at european level. it's like this. citizenship is now - and has been for some time - multi-level: it is local, it is regional, it is national and it is also european and global. it was once said that you cannot love what you do not know, and without knowing how europe works, its institutions, its history, its values, the ways of participation available to it, its rights and opportunities, it is difficult for european citizens to exercise that active citizenship. if we deprive young europeans of citizenship education, including european citizenship, we are depriving them of a fundamental right: the right to be civically and politically active citizens. this report analyses the actions taken so far by the union and the member states in this field. unfortunately, this analysis shows that the space devoted to this subject is, in general, marginal in the curricula of most member states. in addition, there are large imbalances between countries and, in general, there is also no support for teachers on how to teach and assess this subject. there is also a big difference between what is proclaimed in policy documents and what is actually implemented in the framework of public policies. that is why we have taken the liberty of making a number of recommendations. firstly, we need a european strategy for education for european citizenship and a directorate in the commission responsible for this matter. we need a european-level competences framework for this key competences, citizenship, as key as mathematics or language or history. we also need a common curriculum for european citizenship education, which must be promoted by the commission, which has so far resisted like a cat with its back turned. but here we have a large majority, 80%, of this house in favour of this idea, in full respect, by the way, of the powers of the member states. finally, i would like to remind you that this is also a demand of the citizens' panels at the conference on the future of europe and that there too a reflection has been opened on the need for a space for sharing competences in education, at least as regards education for european citizenship.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, and in particular dear domènec ruiz devesa, with whom i had the great pleasure of working congratulations on your excellent work and i also greet the whole team of fictitious rapporteurs. kamran is a professor of history and geography in moscow. he's 28 years old. last week, he had to resign because he refused to relay the official speech of the putin regime to his students. in the face of russia's aggression against ukraine, it is obvious that europe must become a military and energy power. the report we are voting on tomorrow stresses an equally essential dimension: making europe an educational powerhouse. we cannot claim to preserve peace between peoples - our peoples - if we do not build a common educational culture in which civic education plays a key role in promoting the values that unite us: critical thinking, commitment to democracy, pluralism, the rule of law, human rights, respect for facts and history. the new ambition we advocate in this report focuses as much on our school curricula, which require more coordination and coherence, as on the experiences of engagement experienced by our young people. in this context, i am pleased that a priority of the french presidency of the council has been the subject of consensus: the creation of a genuine european civil service, which will amplify the dynamic of the european solidarity corps. that is why i am asking you to be there tomorrow so that this european civic mobility, which puts our values into action, will eventually become, like erasmus today, a powerful way to root our youth in the values that bind us together.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr domènec ruiz devesa, for the work he has done and for his willingness to include our input from the drafting of the first report and throughout the negotiation process. i must say we are satisfied with the result. the report includes a broad review of actions to implement the concept of european citizenship, taking into account different social realities and paying very specific attention to the realities of migrants and refugees, as well as a specific plan to combat xenophobia in all its variants, with special emphasis on women, lgtbi people and minorities. i would like to emphasize that the report includes linguistic diversity in the european citizenship strategy, with a focus on minority languages and those in danger of disappearing. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to the broad agreement reached in the basque country on the education pact, endorsed by the vast political and social majority, as a positive reference. euskera, the minority language, will be the main language of education and a qualitative leap in the acquisition of the basque language by students and society in general will be possible. it also sets out ways of ending segregation of pupils on grounds of origin and income. we hope that this reality will be taken into account in the implementation of actions in the field of education for european citizenship.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you very much for your good pronunciation. i also thank the commissioner and the colleagues that have intervened, some of whom are still with us now, ms cicurel, mr ademov, mr polčák. i thank them for having expanded on the ideas in the report and around this report. i couldn’t elaborate on all of them in my introduction. ms cicurel reminded us of the importance of transforming the solidarity corps into a true european civic service. we can say that that kind civic volunteering is the practical side of citizenship education, it’s very important. mr ademov reminded us of the importance of the ambassador schools. they are reflected as well. in the report we indeed call for expanding this programme. other colleagues mentioned the importance of environmental education, this is also reflected because it is a great challenge that we have to address. but as a conclusion, just to remind you that we have five political groups in this house: from the left to the christian democrats going through the greens, the liberals and the social democrats calling for more action in this field. it is good to remind people of the jean monnet programme for schools and the exchange of best practices, but this exchange of best practices is a tape we have heard now for 20 years. so we can do more, we can do better. the idea of the curriculum, for instance – many colleagues also supported it – is something that we are proposing to do in respect of member states’ competences because it will be demonstrative and it will be for voluntary adoption by member states. or including citizenship education modules in mobility programmes like erasmus+ and the solidarity corps. so i encourage the commission to be far-sighted and proactive in this field.
madam president, as an economist, you know i usually speak of numbers. not today. today the fall of bucha compels us to speak of something else: of our guilt, of our obligations. in life, the brave ukrainians remind us what it means to be european. in death, they demand that they are the last victims of our appeasement. citizens of europe, our energy addiction, our money, allowed the killing of ukrainians – the killing of fellow europeans whose only crime was to believe in our freedoms. is it not clear that our gas is tainted with blood? that the guilty are we who financed this monster? the package announced today by the commission and ms von der leyen means that europe will continue funding putin’s armies. president von der leyen announced today that the banned coal exports are worth eur 4 billion a year. but she did not mention that the gas and oil that we are allowing in are worth 25 times more. today, this parliament demands in its resolution that the ban also include oil and gas. some say that the gas ban is not possible. i tell you that we have not even tried. three examples: the groningen gas field, the largest on the continent, is still set to close this year. is that europe trying? germany is still set to close three nuclear plants this year after it closed three just a few months ago. they could be turned on tomorrow, but there is not even a discussion on that. is that europe trying? spain, instead of increasing its interconnection with europe, is trying to turn itself into an energy island. is that europe trying? we could be doing so much more. we could pay a price for freedom. instead, we pay for the bullets used in bucha. if europe does not do enough, history will not see us as a bystander; history will know we were complicit.
madam president, high representative, i thank president metsola for her courage in going to ukraine on behalf of all of us. today i want to speak to the people of ukraine, to you, children, youth, adults, old, who are facing the terror of a tyrant and raising your voice for freedom, not only yours, but everyone's; it is your home, it is your life; it is not just a territory, it is your country, it is the place where your grandparents grew up, your mothers, and your children will grow up. i would ask all europeans to be ukraine: imagine for a moment that in your country the sound of laughter in the streets is replaced by sirens, and that of children playing by the sound of bombs. i ask you to lose your fear, as the ukrainians have done: we defend our european values, which are today threatened and under attack. what's happening is a massacre, we can't look the other way. putin will go down in the history books as one of the worst criminals, as a great enemy of human rights and freedom. bucha, irpin, mariupol, the european union is on your side; kiev is resisting, and europe is proving to be up to the task: breaking off diplomatic and economic relations with putin is an obligation, and ambiguities are not worth it. the european union must be firm against putin now and when the war is over, and hopefully soon: we cannot allow ourselves to give in to putin again when the barbarism is over; it is not just today, but tomorrow. it is also our duty to strengthen europe in the face of populist and nationalist movements of the same kind which seek to destabilise our democracies. member states must meet the commitments of the european union and nato, increase investment in security and defence, reduce energy dependence on russia and take steps to alleviate the effects of war, which, combined with accumulated inflation, are devastating european families. we stand with ukraine, and we stand together every day to defend europe.
madam president, commissioner, i wanted to use this debate on the global approach to research and innovation to highlight the importance of academic freedom for the advancement of knowledge. because the university should be a space for debate and critical analysis. and we need to respect that academic freedom to ensure that function. and the first thing we have to do in europe is to really respect it, because that way we can also defend it all over the world. because one of the elements of the european union's leadership, precisely in research and talent, can be really greatly strengthened by international cooperation in research and development. cooperation which obviously must be based on fundamental principles and values and also on gender equality. in the resolution we are debating today, we call for greater collaboration with third countries to find solutions in the green and digital transitions. for these transitions to be successful and to be just, we need international cooperation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to innovation, europe needs more than ever to open up to the world, to exchange knowledge and to cooperate with those nations which can broaden our scientific, humanistic and technological horizons. the text we are debating today sets out the strategy for cooperation with other nations, partners and allies with whom we must advance in all kinds of knowledge, but with particular attention to the great challenges: the ecological transition, digitisation and health. we also made clear the need for closer ties with the ukrainian academic and scientific community. the funds from horizon europe should be used to create joint projects with our neighbouring country in the coming years. another major priority is the protection of academic freedom. europe must build its future around critical thinking and therefore we cannot tolerate freedom in educational institutions being endangered or questioned. finally, i would like to highlight three key elements of the text which i consider to be fundamental: the explicit promotion of gender equality in r & d teams, cooperation with our mediterranean partners on hydrogen and collaboration in r & d in semiconductors, an essential axis of our digital sovereignty.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for organising this debate. let me first say something about the recent revelations of civilian killings in the areas from which russia is withdrawing. i am shocked by the reports of unimaginable horror in these areas. and indeed, as mr glucksmann has just said, this is the face of evil. these are war crimes and the perpetrators will be held accountable. that is why the eu is now setting a joint investigation team with ukraine to collect evidence and investigate these crimes. the russian unjustified invasion of ukraine is a war also against democracy. russia had tried for years to destabilise ukraine and take it away from the aspiration of its people for democracy. they failed and now moved to the next stage with a brutal invasion. this highlights once more the need to prompt actions to strengthen the resilience of our own democracies and address their vulnerabilities, our vulnerabilities. let me start first on the extreme right in russia. the international institute for strategic studies reported in 2020 that russia supports white supremacist and other far—right groups, encouraging them with propaganda, which leads to polarisation and division in european societies. russian right—wing extremist groups have been known to have links to european groups, and there have been reports of russia funding and training right—wing extremist individuals and groups in the eu member states. for instance, the russian imperial movement, supported by the russian authorities and designated a right—wing terrorist organisation by the united states, cooperates with european groups such as the nordic resistance movement, banned by finland, against a globalised elite. the commission is working with member states to tackle the threat of violent right—wing extremism in the eu, including via europol, which is in close contact with member state authorities and partner agencies, to continuously exchange information and gather intelligence to draw up assessments of the terrorist and right—wing extremist threats. secondly, political parties financing. while the financing of national parties remains a competence of the eu member states, the eu has the competence to regulate european political parties. this is why we have recently put forward a recast proposal of the regulation on european political parties and foundations. we intend to strike a fine balance between, on the one hand, giving more possibilities to european political parties and foundations to fulfil their role in building and nourishing a truly european political space, and on the other hand, making sure that their action is free from undue interferences and that they use the european funding they receive in the best possible way. currently, all european political parties have member parties from outside the eu. these are often political parties in the opposition to authoritarian regimes, which fight for democracy and human rights under very difficult circumstances. for them, belonging to a european political party and receiving its support in the international scene is of the utmost importance. one example, very recently ukrainian president zelenskyy’s sluha narodu party was granted temporary affiliate status in the alde party. in the current political context, the commission considers that it is important to send to these parties a strong political message of support and encouragement. at the same time, we need strong safeguards against foreign interference, as included in the commission’s proposal, namely: a very strict regulation of donations which are totally forbidden if coming from outside the eu; the extension of the obligation to comply with the fundamental values of the eu to member parties or organisations of european political parties and foundations located both outside and inside europe; a financial cap on contributions coming from member parties organisations located outside the eu but inside the council of europe set as 10% of the overall contributions. they are capped at 40% of the overall annual budget of the party or foundation. also, defending our democracies includes defending the foundations on which it stands, such as media freedom, open discourse and informed decisions by voters. and we are acting on all fronts. we are fighting disinformation. disinformation campaigns from russia are part of hybrid warfare tactics to undermine the eu’s unity. far—right propaganda content are fuelling online polarisation, and we stand firm against all those who want to divide our societies through hate and violence. we also are addressing the issue of the lack of transparency in political advertising online and offline. the new regulation we tabled in november last year aims to introduce high common transparency standards for political advertising services circulated in the internal market, including from outside the european union across all media. it contains specific rules on targeting and amplification of political ads, promoting accountability and discouraging bad practices and interference to empower citizens. when adopted, these rules will also increase the transparency of money used to finance advertising campaigns. i hope we can advance rapidly on the proposals on european political parties and on political advertising. honourable members, thank you for your attention. i look forward for the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, this is a necessary and timely debate, but not all of them are here. right wing extremists? of course i will. separatists? what are you talking about? i certainly do. but there's no one on the left? because it does not take an expert in french politics to know what mr mélenchon's speeches are and what he thinks of the russian invasion, and it does not take an expert in spanish domestic politics to know that part of the governing coalition is still opposed to military aid to ukraine. and it is that putin has won the sympathy of those who see in the invasion of ukraine the resurrection, or at least the aroma, of the old soviet union, and also the sympathy of those who consider that russia is the refuge of no one knows what traditional or racial values and, of course, has won the complicity of separatist movements. in short, all those who want to set the european union on fire know that once the match is lit, putin will come with gasoline. the report of the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes in the european union, in particular disinformation, chaired by the rapporteur, mr glucksmann, clearly reveals the web of interests and complicity that we must undo, including those complicities with the separatists. even today, in this very house, representatives of catalan separatism, political instigators of sedition, who denounce a democratic state like spain, are still trying to teach us lessons on respect for pluralism, democracy and the rule of law, while we know that among them there are those who have rushed to seek the protection of moscow, the support of an autocracy, and who wanted the same disinformation and propaganda apparatus that today lies against ukraine to act in favour of their purpose of breaking the unity of a democratic state member of the european union - and russia collaborated. so if there is any conclusion to be drawn from this debate, it is to remember jefferson when he said that the price of freedom is eternal vigilance: the ukrainians know this and are suffering from it, and we europeans should not forget it.
madam president, commissioner, yes, we are concerned about russian influence in europe. we are concerned that the popular party is incorporating the extreme right wing of vox the puppets of putin in spain into the government of castilla y león and that this is only the prelude to a future reactionary government. we are concerned that josep borrell, in 2018, as foreign minister, thought that the best idea to fight fake news was to agree with the putin regime to create a security group against disinformation. i have bad news for those in this house today who are trying to do what russia does so well: misinformation and manipulation. the catalan independence movement shares the consensus we have in this house today: peace, defence of european values and the fight against the far right. our political commitments are transparent: we are working to be a full member state in a federal, diverse, socially just, green, feminist and radically democratic european union.
madam president! we have to tell ourselves that the bitter truth is that almost all of europe has been poisoned by putin and poisoned by russia against our warnings our polish warnings. the european right in many western countries has believed that putin is a defender of traditional values. some separatists believed that russia could be an ally in the drive to change borders in europe. the left die linke or jean-luc mélenchon in france has transferred its love of the soviet union to today's russia. but putin's greatest and most dangerous influence has been and is in the ruling parties - in the social democracy and the so-called centre-right. we know that france has been selling weapons to putin despite sanctions. and that's what we should be discussing here. only today are the names revealed by the supposedly independent media: millions have been counted, i can't count. today, there are no responsible for these years of appeasement. this debate is designed to blur that responsibility and to divert attention from the modern chamberlains who pretend now to pretend they've always been the churchills.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. today, i'm asking you to reflect on yourself, so i'm going to start with a quote. russia has given hope and strength to all minorities in the fight for their rights. and the crimean referendum has exposed the duplicity of the united states and the european union, which only support the self-determination of peoples, human rights and minority rights when their geopolitical interests demand it. other these statements were made by the hungarian far right a few years ago, when its members participated as election observers in the referendum on the annexation of crimea to russia and celebrated the russian annexation of the peninsula. the alliance between the far-right jobbik and the hungarian left was enthusiastically supported by the european left parties, with its prime ministerial candidate donald tusk on stage, and the european people's party entering the hungarian election campaign in support of him. ladies and gentlemen! when we debate the relationship between the kremlin and far-right parties, the european party families should look first and foremost at themselves and do some soul-searching, you on the left. whose interests are they really representing in their political positions like the above?
madam president, putin's worst nightmare is a strong european union and cohesive member states. that is why for years the russian president tried to sow discord within the european union by supporting disruptive projects like brexit or funding extremist parties, but also by encouraging secession within many european states by supporting separatist movements like the catalan one. some catalan secessionists, led by a fugitive from justice, did not hesitate to meet with oligarchs, with deputies of putin's party and with representatives of his security services; they went on excursions to moscow thinking they were secret agents, but they were nothing more than, as lenin said in his day, 'the useful fools of the kremlin'. we are not going to be taught lessons in democracy by anyone who has not been held accountable by the spanish judiciary: in a state governed by the rule of law like spain, the law must be respected and, of course, the judgments of the courts must be complied with. some secessionists wanted putin as an ally, they were willing to make a deal with the devil to achieve their goals: that's why those who met with putin's regime exhibiting the yellow ribbon will never be able to wear this blue and yellow ribbon of ukraine. in the face of putin and in the face of extremists and separatists, it is time more than ever for the unity of the whole of europe.
madam president, brave people in ukraine are fighting right now in a brutal war, also to defend freedom and democracy. ukrainian citizens are fighting for their right to live in a democratic system where the separation of powers means something, where fundamental rights and the independence of the judiciary will be safeguarded. women are fighting for their own self-determination. lgbti people are fighting for their fundamental right to be who they are. a record 91% of ukrainians are supporting the accession to the european union. why is that? because they believe in the values outlined in article 2 of our treaties. because despite the setbacks and the shortcomings that we clearly see in the european union, apparently we still stand for a promise of democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights. i urge you, colleagues, let us live up to this promise also by being tough about democracy and rule of law inside our own union. and this does not only need a vocal european parliament, this most of all also needs member states to open their mouths and to stand up for the rule of law and democracy. so i can only call on the french presidency to move on with the article 7 procedure, not only by hearings, because the next step is very clear. we need binding recommendations with clear timelines to protect the rule of law and fundamental rights inside of our common union.
madam president, what a late hour indeed, what a display of hypocrisy! first, they are setting up a fictitious, absurd debate here about the friends of putin, the parties of mrs merkel-nord stream and mr schröder-nord stream, the parties of mr macron, the biggest arms seller to russia, and they are coming here to talk about other friends of russia. the spanish socialist party, partner of eta, partner of the catalan separatists, who are in contact and conspiring with mr putin, partner in venezuela of the drug traffickers, of the mafia of mr maduro, of the mafia of mr diaz-canel, both partners of mr putin. and now they're coming with poland and hungary. you attack them because they are the counter-model of your hypocrisy, because they are functioning societies and are increasingly going to be an example for all the other countries in europe. and you're afraid of them.
madam president, the rule of law is being systematically violated in poland and hungary. we've been denouncing him for years. infringement proceedings were initiated in 2017 and 2018 for lack of judicial independence and, in the case of hungary, additionally for strangling the press. but we cannot suspend their voting rights in the council unless they themselves agree, because the sacred rule of unanimity applies. we cheat on the lonely and it undermines our credibility. orbán, autocrat, ultraconservative populist and friend of putin, has just won another election against the brussels bureaucrats that's what he said. it is precisely brussels which must ensure that it does not use everyone's money in its own fight against human rights. that is why it is so important that the commission, even if late, finally activates the conditionality mechanism. while we were thinking about it, lgbtq people, women and migrants have been persecuted, independent media have disappeared and the separation of powers has been canceled. the selective reception of ukrainian refugees cannot now be a bargaining chip or a whitewash for their repressive policies. as you can see, every minute wasted has had its consequences. let's make a note of it.
madam president, i don't know about you, but this is puzzling me. in just four weeks we have shown that it is possible to welcome more than four million people fleeing war and barbarism and guaranteeing the right to asylum. we have done so in conditions that have ensured a dignified reception. we did it with pride and determination. popular solidarity has been activated; even at the price of petrol, taxi drivers in my country have travelled 3,000 kilometres to pick up ukrainian refugees at the polish border. so how do we explain that at the same time we continue to see migrants drowning at sea? scenes of people getting beaten up on the southern border fence? bodies torn apart by concertinas, the criminalization of those who save lives? how do you explain the 40,000 hot returns in 2020? it's unbearable and it's also a manifestation of racist politics that feeds hate, which only benefits the far right, instead of being based on what makes human beings greater: empathy and justice. it is unbearable, especially after seeing that it is possible to make another policy of reception and refuge. that a migration model based on legal and safe pathways, based on the free movement of refugees between member states, is possible. it has been shown that a chance to live with dignity can be given to those who need it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure.)
the answer is 'blue card'. (start of intervention off the microphone) ... of the eu are an example, a melting pot full of cases of people who have not received sufficient legal guarantees to prove the need to enter reception, asylum and shelter systems. so i'm not mixing anything up. equal legal aid must be guaranteed. the geneva convention and international law must be applied. human rights must be guaranteed. and there are many examples at the eu's external borders that this is not the case.
madam president, the violations of the right to seek asylum and the non-return of refugees and migrants at various european borders are well documented by ngos - many of them - investigative journalists, the unhcr, olaf itself and even by evidence held by the frontex agency itself and parliamentarians who have carried out various missions. however, commissioner dalli, i am sorry to tell you this, but the commission has not yet taken action against the member states. it is well established that forced returns, hot returns or push-backs as we like to call them are perfectly accredited as a systematic practice, as an expression of their migration policy. this is very clear in the case of the greek authorities and also in the case of the polish authorities on the border with belarus. please open the infringement procedure at once.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the evaluation mechanism must ensure that respect for fundamental rights, including the right to free movement, is strengthened. and yet, since 2015, at the internal borders of the schengen area there are cross-border crossings that have been closed for more than a year, something that initially should have been a temporary measure. this is the case of some of the passes in the basque country, which the french government has decided to close or where it has set up internal controls. measures that affect the daily lives of people who work and live on both sides of the border and that, in addition, have caused the death of at least eight young migrants trying to cross the border on the bidasoa river that separates irún and hendaya. the european commission, on the other hand, in its revision of the schengen borders code, instead of ensuring that fundamental rights are respected, is normalising internal controls and rewarding member states that are violating fundamental rights. it's time to take action against pushbacks. the proposed revision - it should be noted - will make the abuse and death of asylum seekers the norm. and the ukrainian exodus shows us that we need a reform of space that ensures... (the president withdraws the speaker)
author. mr president, we are discussing the human rights situation in a country which is a black hole of information, democracy, rights and, in short, collective security. the situation in north korea is catastrophic. to political and economic isolation, natural disasters and famine we have to add the covid-19 pandemic. and, according to the united nations, a virtually total denial of the most basic rights. north koreans can't even move freely in their own country. they survive amid food insecurity, malnutrition and lack of vaccines. they suffer arbitrary detention, forced labour, torture, denial of the right to religious beliefs and practices and also sexual violence. the socialists in this house again call on the kim jong-un regime to allow humanitarian organizations access and work, to immediately stop the executions, torture, kidnappings and detentions and, in addition, to reform its penal system. we need, ladies and gentlemen, more specific european sanctions for those responsible for the serious human rights violations in north korea. we call on the commission to maintain existing humanitarian aid programmes and on all un members to take steps to fully implement the sanctions already in place in the un security council. finally, i also believe that we must work to hold the north korean regime accountable where it belongs, which is in the international criminal court, for crimes against humanity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-chairman of the delegation for relations with the korean peninsula of the european parliament, i am presenting today an urgent resolution condemning the systematic violation of human rights in north korea. the past few months have been especially dramatic for north koreans, with reports of abuse, beatings and unjustified detentions increasing. the european union must be strong and uncompromising towards the kim jong-un regime, and that is why this resolution calls for the international community to hold those responsible for this barbarity to account. as democratic representatives of the citizens of the european union, we cannot continue to look the other way: we cannot ignore the north korean regime's extreme repression of political freedom of thought, conscience, religion, expression and the press; we cannot ignore the extremely high levels of malnutrition and medical neglect that the population has suffered for years; we cannot ignore the extreme violence and slavery in the country's prisons and re-education camps; we cannot ignore its constant military and nuclear provocations and intimidation; and we cannot ignore the suffering of the women and girls of north korea, a country where state officials not only fail to protect their people, but perpetuate gender violence, sexual abuse and inequality. tomorrow, when we vote on this resolution, we will show that this parliament is facing this reality head on, that we condemn it in the strongest terms and that we demand an immediate end to these heartbreaking violations of human rights.
president. - mr president, the very limited information we have from north korea suggests that the situation is deteriorating further, and that famine may be returning. we have a repressive infrastructure that is increasingly brutal: north korean prison camps are nothing like the gulag or the chinese reeducation camps. and in fact, north korea's grounds for reeducation have recently been expanded. there is a new law on what they call "the elimination of reactionary thought and culture" that punishes with prison or even death those who are arrested with external cultural materials, for example simple bibles. and, as usual, the one party has used a crisis, in this case covid, to terrorize the population a little more, with the risk of ever more severe repression. we are still a little disarmed to find concrete ways of putting pressure on a power that is at once aggressive, delusional and closed. i think the first thing we can do is help the political refugees; secondly, support the return of humanitarian organisations; and finally, it has been said, to put unremitting pressure on china to convince, if possible, this totalitarian partner, this regime that has no place in the world.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, heading the delegation with the korean peninsula in this very parliament, it’s important to me that i emphasise that what the eu calls ‘critical engagement’ is also our approach in the european parliament in dealing with north korea, meaning that we push our objective of denuclearisation in north korea, and we work closely with our great partners in south korea. as in each and every case and in each and every place in the world, europe defends the values europe represents on the planet, and among them is human rights. that’s why this very report of the european parliament is so important. i myself have seen pictures and graphics of how prisoners are treated in north korea, and this is something we must not let happen. we must do our utmost to defend human rights, including the freedom of religion and belief, and all the other things that are important for our european values.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. ladies and gentlemen! numerous memes have been created about the communist leader of korea. the last one i saw today was the smiling leader of a communist country saying, "i'm not the world's craziest leader anymore". in the context of russia's aggression against ukraine, of course. only this laugh is actually dying on your lips, because can we laugh? but let's remember the 50,000, maybe 70,000 christians who are sitting in communist prisons in north korea, just because they're christians. let us remember the persecution of other religious minorities in this country, which is like a dinosaur, because it exists, although communism has long since fallen in most countries. we really need to put our fists together on this issue and bring this freak state to its complete ostracism.
mr president, 15 april in north korea, the so-called ‘day of the sun’, is overshadowed by the repressive regime committing widespread violations of human rights. north korea is, according to the freedom house index, one of the least free countries, with zero political rights and almost no civil liberties. it is a country with the most persecuted christians, with an approximate 70 000 people in prison just for their beliefs. moreover, there are reports of christians being executed while hiding and worshipping in secret. the european parliament strongly condemns the state repression and systematic human rights violation against its own people, including persecution of christians. their recently shown willingness towards using nuclear weapons is most concerning and should be met with a strong effort of the eu for reconciliation and denuclearisation. we ask the eu commission to take efficient diplomatic steps forward. thank you all, colleagues, for the negotiation and for the support.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, extermination, murder, slavery, torture, imprisonment, rape, forced abortion and other forms of sexual violence, forced exile of entire ethnic groups, disappearances of persons, forced fasting, persecution for various reasons, political, religious, racial and gender-based: this is what we're hearing from the hell out of north korea. consider that the recent report of the intergroup on religious freedom, which i have the honor of co-chairing, highlighted the ten countries where the situation has deteriorated in recent years for religious freedom, and north korea is not among them. not because the situation is not serious but because it was already so compromised that it was virtually impossible for even a bloodthirsty dictator to make it worse. it is estimated that between 50,000 and 70,000 christians are victims of the regime in prison systems and labor camps for no other reason than their faith, as are other religious minorities. rarely does one find a way out, sometimes to china, and when you get to china, you want to run away from there too because there is no peace even in china for those who want to practice their faith. we must not give up. we must use all our economic and political weight to make these countries understand that we are not willing to back down in the defense of human rights and religious freedom... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam commissioner, we are witnessing appalling war crimes in ukraine and we should not forget the crimes in totalitarian states such as north korea. killing, torturing, imprisoning, of course, inhuman treatment and now also killing all members of religious minorities. these are real state murders. there can be no religious freedom in north korea. we know that the korean people may not be able to hear us today, but they will certainly hear the news of our support one day. but those who hear us are undoubtedly representatives of the regime, and we must send them a clear message that they will be held accountable, that the sanctions of the security council are inviolable and that we will insist on them. our support must, of course, be extended to all the persecuted and unjustly oppressed people in north korea.
mr president, in the democratic people’s republic of korea, stories about its leaders are often told in epic biblical proportions. the ‘eternal president’ kim il sung and his sons not only fulfil the role of political leader to the korean people, but also of liberator, saviour, reformer, spiritual guide and even saint nicholas. this is the reason why religion is almost non—existent in north korea and why remaining religious minorities are persecuted. for the north korean state, religion is a rival and a threat to its juche ideology. the sanctions on north korea, while justified under international law, have also increasingly isolated the people. one could ask the question whether a ban on fisheries, for example, helps or worsens the situation in the country. let us not forget that the common folk of north korea never asked for their government, nor should they be the ones punished for their government’s actions.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, last week, for the 18th consecutive year, the human rights council expressed its deep concern over the widespread human rights violations in the democratic people’s republic of korea. regretfully, there are no signs of improvement. on the contrary, increased controls on the inflow of information, restrictions on market activity and the withdrawal of humanitarian agencies from the country indicate the situation is deteriorating further. i welcome the parliament’s decision to highlight violations of the freedom of religion or belief in the dprk. promoting the freedom of religion or belief is a priority for the european union. credible and multiple sources of information point to serious human rights violations against individuals for expressions of christian faith or engagement in shamanist practices. a particular concern is the treatment of people forcibly sent back to north korea who have had contact with faith-based organisations while outside the country. the eu keeps both the freedom of religion or belief and the overall human rights situation in the dprk high on the international agenda. the eu leads resolutions at the human rights council and the united nations general assembly. the latest human rights council resolution on north korea was adopted by consensus on 1 april. the eu global human rights sanctions regime has already brought consequences to senior individuals responsible for human rights violations in north korea. the union works with un human rights mechanisms and civil society mechanisms. i salute the work of the civil society organisations in building repositories of information on human rights violations. these contributions open up avenues to potentially hold perpetrators of human rights violations accountable for their actions. it does not have to be this way. for 25 years, the eu has urged north korea to recognise that the respect for human rights is the road to sustainable security and economic development. the eu keeps the door to dialogue firmly open. the dprk has a choice to make. i hope it will be the right one for the sake of the north korean people.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 7 april 2022.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation of the rule of law and human rights in the republic of guatemala (2022/2621 (rsp)) *. the president of the commission
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have had a long debate today on the rule of law in the european union. but we must also, of course, take care of the application of the law outside the european union. there is a country with which we have very close ties - guatemala - with an association agreement and an agreement on political dialogue and cooperation. in this country, the rule of law is constantly being broken, and institutionally broken. it is therefore time for us as the european parliament to take a clear stand here and to demand the rule of law in guatemala too - precisely because we are so closely linked. in may of this year, a new attorney general will be elected, and we want to make sure that this happens under fair conditions and that no candidate is elected who stands for breaking the law. we are in favour of the rule of law in the european union, but also in other countries such as guatemala.
author. mr. president, madam commissioner, persecution of human rights defenders, journalists; threats, arrests and harassment of judicial operators... since 2019 in guatemala the institutions created capable of fighting corruption and impunity have been dismantled: this was pointed out by the high representative, the united nations human rights council at its last session... there is a clear and very worrying trend towards corruption and the erosion of the rule of law and judicial independence in guatemala. women at the forefront of the fight against corruption, such as judge erika aifán, have been forced to flee the country; also juan francisco sandoval, former special prosecutor against impunity, precisely dismissed by the current attorney general, consuelo porras, sanctioned for corruption by the united states fiscal who today also presents himself to reelection. that is why this parliament could not remain silent: we sent a message to the guatemalan authorities to reverse this drift immediately, not just with promises, but with action and results.
author. – mr president, since the closing down of the international commission against impunity (cicig), guatemala suffers from a dismantling of rule of law and institutional co-optation. we are deeply concerned over the legal action initiated by authorities in guatemala against independent judges, lawyers and prosecutors, who have been involved in investigating anti—corruption cases. more than 20 of them have already left the country out of fear for their safety. we urge the guatemalan authorities to put an end to the criminalisation of justice operators, to ensure the independence of the justice system and to guarantee a transparent process when selecting the new attorney general. we also see that the attacks and the criminalisation of land and environmental defenders are increasing. we greens defend the rights of the citizens, and not of a corrupted elite who sacrifices people and natural resources for their own profit. i remember lolita chavez, our sakharov prize finalist in 2017, she warned us that ‘various eu companies are violating rights of the people in guatemala’. therefore, we must call on the eu companies to apply strict due diligence to ensure human rights compliance. we should continue the constructive dialogue that we have built with guatemala and its embassy in brussels. in this dialogue, the eu has to promote democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law.
author. – mr president, we have three urgency resolutions here this evening, one on north korea, one on russia and one on guatemala. there is a vast difference between guatemala and russia and north korea. guatemala is an important like-minded partner of the eu in central america. there is a growing trade cooperation between the eu and guatemala. and guatemala has shown great solidarity with ukraine and the eu, which had strong condemnation of the russian invasion of ukraine. and, of course, many of the offenses here mentioned occurred before the present government was elected in january 2020. nevertheless, we have to be concerned about reports of recent legal actions against guatemalan prosecutors and judges who played a prominent role in anti-impunity and anti-corruption efforts. this is also combined with the detention of human rights defenders, particularly environmentalists and indigenous people. there must be full respect for the country’s constitutional order and judicial independence. we call on the government to root out corruption and impunity, and improve the human rights situation.
author. mr. president, álvaro marcos román is one of the twenty-three leaders of the indigenous organization codeca murdered since 2018. bernardo caal has been imprisoned for more than four years for defending the rights of his community against a hydroelectric project. lolita chavez is in exile for opposing megaprojects that affect indigenous territories. union leader carlos mancilla and his family have recently received death threats. in guatemala, those who oppose the interests of extractivist capitalism, impunity and corruption are increasingly persecuted. megaprojects of european transnational companies, such as the renace hydroelectric project or the phoenix mine, are responsible for this situation and also for this persecution. we demand that no european aid should allow extractive projects which do not comply with the free prior informed consultation of indigenous communities, that the provisional application of the trade pillar of the association agreement be suspended immediately... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe group. i think that this resolution is too weak. the situation in guatemala has reached a very high level of alert. just think of what secretary general guterres said last thursday when he spoke clearly about the persecution of more than 15 judicial officials in guatemala. among these 15 officials is the great erika dávila, who wrote memorable pages in the fight against corruption in guatemala and who cannot find a fair defence and is forced into exile, forced to leave the country she has always tried to defend. her story, davila's, is one of continuous difficulty, precisely because she is a woman. let us not forget that guatemala has recently passed a violent anti-abortion law, which favours sexual discrimination, and dávila is probably paying for being a woman. his history, the difficulties of his career show how he had to fight each time to overcome these difficulties. we therefore ask the commission to take a strong stand against these injustices against judges.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, the road to dictatorship always starts in the same place: the independence of the judiciary is destroyed, freedom of the press and of expression is threatened, dissidents and the organisations that bring them together are persecuted and all the control mechanisms are broken. the guatemala of alejandro giammattei is already descending that slope on the backs of corruption and impunity. but this deterioration is catalyzed by despair. nearly half the population lives below the poverty line. the eta and iota storms and the pandemic have only aggravated this situation. too many people in guatemala, because of these factors, already have very little to lose. that is why efforts must be focused on restoring democracy, as well as on ending injustice and poverty. i hope the presidential commissions on corruption and peace and human rights will succeed, but it is equally urgent to push for measures against poverty in favour of inclusive growth and equality. the european union must use the clauses of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement to stimulate these decisive changes.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the truth is that a resolution on cuba should have been discussed here, because there have been brutal sentences in cuba of decades of imprisonment for people, including minors, for demonstrating and asking for freedom on 11 july. that resolution has not been adopted and a resolution is being invented to punish one of the few countries which is making progress in its institutional structure, which has cooperation with the west, which has continuous positive cooperation with the european union, such as guatemala. with a country that is within our orbit, wants to be and is moving forward in it, and does not want to be like the other countries that support many of you here, like el salvador, like nicaragua, like cuba or like venezuela. that's really what you guys seem to want in central america for everyone. guatemala, with costa rica, is the only country that is moving forward and you are trying to destroy it here with ridiculous accusations.
mr president, the guatemalan authorities are sliding the country down the slope of corruption, attack and judicial independence and the rule of law. a slope that ends in the precipice. the guatemalan authorities have to decide whether to take a step forward or take a step back, to go backwards and to orient public policies in guatemala towards the path of recovering the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary. that is a key decision, for your future depends on it. this resolution is intended to send a warning signal, which is in addition to many others, because we are interested in democracy in guatemala, because we are interested in the future of the guatemalan people and what we want is for the guatemalan authorities to reflect and realize that they are on time. if you do, if instead of taking a step forward and falling backwards towards nicaragua, you take a step backwards, you will find the european union there, working side by side to guarantee a future of prosperity and freedom for all the citizens of guatemala.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the roma community is discriminated against in europe and has been criminalised since time immemorial. now, with the brutality of the war, it seems that far from being tempered, this criminalization is hardening and worsening: in ukraine, roma are the target of military groups and militias on both sides of the conflict, and we know that human losses have been recorded, especially in regions where different ethnic groups coexist. in poland, moldova and slovakia, there is a selective solidarity which is based on prejudice and racist stereotypes and which is openly anti-gypsy. it is surprising that europe is silent in the face of such a violation of the right to asylum and refuge. we have to assume that roma, many of whom may be undocumented in ukraine, face specific vulnerabilities, and we must redouble their protection. it is in emergency situations that we must demonstrate our true commitment to international and union law.
mr president, commissioner, the roma people in my country, spain, are one of the most disadvantaged communities in europe. their access to public housing and education services is very limited and there is a clear and pernicious interrelation between the two deficits. a child living in a crowded, poor home will need 4.5 generations to reach the average income level of their context. this problem of lack of social uplift is much more serious in the case of roma children, because 85% of them are at risk of poverty, compared to 24% of other european children. and the dropout rate is very high in this community. in spain, for example, 80% of roma pupils drop out of school. it is clear that the miserable environment of settlements and slums discourages school participation. that is why we must start from the bottom, with children, guaranteeing them access to a decent housing, which is a necessary condition for the promotion and social integration of any person. it is necessary to respond to the situation of inequality and discrimination in access to housing that the roma community experiences in relation to the rest of the population. this parliament made this clear last year when it adopted the report on housing. ensure access to decent housing, foster inclusive and sustainable urbanisation, involving roma in all stages of planning. access to basic water and sanitation services in existing settlements must also be ensured. the european union's strategic framework for roma sets a number of targets to be achieved by 2030 and provides guidance to eu member states on how to do so. but we need to mobilise more resources from the european social fund plus and invest in these communities. in this respect, the child guarantee fund must play a crucial role.
madam president, madam commissioner, we are debating here today a resolution which we hope will soon become law and become a reality for all european citizens, because that is what the great european society demands, since more than 77% of the citizens of the european union would prefer to have their devices repaired rather than buy a new one. in the society we live in today, where climate ambition is becoming more important every day and young people have played a key role in this new agenda of the european green deal, we are in a world where resources are becoming more limited every day and therefore the need for a circular economy based on a pillar such as the prohibition of planned obsolescence is becoming more important. so today we are asking for a real right to repair in the whole value chain, from design to labelling of the final products, to production. but we also ask that the product warranty be extended beyond two years and, also - and very importantly - that consumers be empowered by being given clear and concise information. it is time for the european green deal and the circular economy and the right to redress must play a key role in the european pillar.
mr president, according to the oecd, the number of people suffering from anxiety and depression has increased substantially since march 2020, even, in the case of spain, my country, for example, has doubled. it is something that many members have already commented on: the impact of the pandemic, now the impact of war. but i think the issue of mental health, the stigma of which, by the way, we have to help erase, is much older. i think we should go back to the beginning of the neoliberal era - the late 1970s, early 1980s - with the lack of emphasis on social policy that we have had in the last 40 years. so this change of era in which we live must be the great opportunity to move forward in that european mental health strategy that needs to be put in place, and also to promote emotional education from early childhood, investing in children from disadvantaged backgrounds. the child guarantee fund plays a key role in this respect.
the rapporteur. mr president, vice-president jourová, thank you for your presence and thank you also to the colleagues who remain in the chamber. i also want to thank my colleagues on the negotiating team for this bill, sven simon for the epp, guy verhofstadt for renew, damian boeselager for verts/ale, leila chaibi for the left and fabio castaldo for the ni, for their excellent contributions and their excellent cooperation. because we have actually put forward this proposal for a european electoral law between all of us, five democratic and pro-european political groups: the socialists, the christian democrats, the liberals, the greens and the left. the proposal comes to the house today after ten months of intensive work and difficult negotiations. i sincerely believe that we have drawn up a bill that is certainly innovative and ambitious, but also balanced. all the political groups have found some of their most important priorities reflected. the commission is proposing a solution to reinforce the principle of the first-past-the-post system for the presidency of the european commission by creating a pan-european constituency of 28 additional seats. but it's a balanced solution. citizens will be able to vote not only for national candidates but also for candidates put forward by european political parties, with the number one on that european list as the candidate for president of the commission. this second ballot will be the same throughout europe. the elector thus receives a new empowerment, since in addition to electing meps he can directly support a european political party, a common electoral programme and a candidate for president of the commission, as is also the case in national parliamentary democracies. the same mechanism achieves three objectives: it europeanises the electoral campaign with twenty-eight candidates, who must campaign throughout europe and not just in one member state and on national problems; it makes european political parties visible and empowered; and it makes the principle of the head of the list, which has hitherto been virtual, a reality. this parliament already approved the idea of a pan-european constituency in 2015 and there has subsequently been a political agreement from this house mid-term to go in that direction too. we believe that the agreement which is being put forward today faithfully reflects that half-term agreement. if we are to avoid the system of list heads being ignored again in 2024 as regards the candidates for president of the commission, this reform is absolutely necessary. why is this proposal balanced? first, by the number. the 46 seats available are not exhausted, leaving room for future enlargements. the current national constituencies with their current number are respected. two thirds of the list is reserved for small and medium-sized states, ensuring that eligible posts are not predominantly filled by candidates from the most populous states. we must also take account of a fact which i consider to be incontrovertible. amendments have been tabled, separate votes have been requested, but no alternative to this proposal has been put forward. it is therefore clear that for those who do not accept the status quo, who understand that we need to move forward so that those 2024 elections are fully europeanised, the bet has to be on this report. there is no alternative but to amendments or separate votes seeking to amputate this report. i therefore encourage you with conviction and confidence to move together towards a stronger and closer european democracy by supporting this report in its entirety in the vote tomorrow.
mr president, we are talking about democracy, but if a democracy does not include people with disabilities, it is incomplete. we must remember that there are 14 member states where more than 400 000 people are still unable to exercise this fundamental right. with this reform of the european electoral act we would make europe 400 000 times better. in spain we have done it: we have reformed the electoral law so that people with disabilities can vote. we are in time and that is why i ask you to vote tomorrow in favour of dissociating legal capacity from the fundamental right to vote and to vote in favour of improving the electoral colleges and making them accessible, not only physically but also sensorially. europe can be 400 000 times better if we include people with disabilities. this reform of the european electoral act does that. i ask for the vote in favour.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you to all the colleagues who have taken part in this lively debate. the report, at least, has the courage to have generated such an intense and dynamic debate. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you of what the vice-president said in her last speech about whether members elected on a european list would be accountable to those who elected them, leaving the question open. it should be remembered that, according to the treaty, madam vice-president, members of the european parliament already represent the whole of the citizenry, not just the country in which we were elected. but i think it has also become clear that, although there has been a lot of negativity on the part of some colleagues, particularly with regard to the pan-european constituency, not a single alternative proposal has been put forward to solve the problem of the 27 parallel national elections we have at the moment in the european parliament elections, nor to visualize the candidate for president of the commission. i also think we should remember, as one of my colleagues has also said, that to actually vote against this bill, whether in part or in whole, is to vote against the improvement of the electoral rights of disabled people, to vote against the possibility of voting by post and also to vote against gender equality, whether through zip-lines or through quotas. let us bear this in mind when we vote tomorrow. moreover, this project comes at an important time for europe, following the pandemic, putin's aggression against ukraine and the conclusion of the conference on the future of europe. europe is already getting stronger in health, finance, energy and defence. our internal political cohesion is also important at this time. the system of the leaderboard, if properly applied, is a reinforcement of europe's political leadership and its democratic legitimacy. this electoral bill strengthens our political union, builds the european demos. this parliament, at this very moment, cannot afford to be absent from this historic meeting.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, ms schmiedtbauer, and the shadow rapporteurs for the report on the action plan for the development of organic production. the commission shares parliament’s goal of the european food system delivering sustainably produced and nutritious food at affordable prices, and ensuring food security in a way that ensures a healthy society and healthy planet contribute to social and economic well-being, protect the health of the ecosystems, and ensure the profitability of agricultural production and therefore of fair living for farmers. to contribute to the achievement of this goal, the commission has included in both the farm to fork strategy and the biodiversity strategy, the green deal target of 25% of european union agricultural land under organic farming by 2030, and a significant increase in organic aquaculture. the reason for this commitment to organics is the various benefits that organics can bring. the increased area to 25% of organic production will also contribute to other objectives of the farm to fork strategy, in particular, it is expected to contribute to the target of a 50% reduction in the use and risk of pesticides. in this context, we are pleased to observe that parliament recognises the various environmental benefits that organic agriculture offers, including reduced greenhouse gas emissions, increased carbon storage by plus 26% compared to conventional, and its potential to help the agricultural sector play its part in the fight against climate change, while addressing key challenges such as the loss of jobs in rural areas, soil fertility and biodiversity loss, as well as promoting resilience in the face of economic challenges. to support the achievement of the 25% green deal target, the commission has adopted on 25 march 2021, the action plan for the development of organic production. this plan takes a demand-driven approach and aims first and foremost to increase the demand for organic products. at the same time, it goes beyond demand and takes a comprehensive approach in the sense that it also aims to increase further the supply of organic products and the sustainability of the organic sector. it addresses the public sector at all levels of governance – eu member states, regions and cities – and the private sector along the value chain: farmers, food processors, wholesale, retail, etc. it also puts much emphasis on research and innovation, which can really make the difference in creating a competitive and sustainable farming system. against this background, the commission welcomes parliament’s overall support for its communication on an action plan for the development of organic production, and in particular its favourable stance – the objective of increasing the european union’s agricultural area under organic farming by 2030 through the development of supply and demand – and the commission’s recognition of organic farming as one of the main components on the eu path towards more sustainable food systems. in particular, in this period where it is of the utmost importance to reduce the long-term dependency on chemical raw materials, organic farming that doesn’t use any chemicals, inputs for fertilisation or pest control increases the resilience of the european food system. the commission is looking forward to the final adoption of this report and its recommendations. they will contribute to support the development of organic agriculture in the european union. honourable members, i thank you for your attention and will be happy to listen to your comments and suggestions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if we want to make agriculture in europe as a whole sustainable, organic farming obviously plays a very important role. of course , not the only one . it is also about making conventional farming more sustainable, for example through integrated production. but the organic farming action plan presented by the commission recognises the central role of the market in the development of organic farming. only if people also take up organic products and are willing to pay the additional costs that are necessarily incurred in production will organic farming have a chance of long-term development. and we can support that: we need to promote organic products, get people to make that purchase decision. and then the public sector itself buys a lot of food, for public catering in schools, in hospitals. we must create the conditions for a focus on regional, high-quality and organic food. and there are great examples in europe where schools, for example, are buying high-quality food, trying to waste less food, and not spending more money overall than they used to by changing the food plan. we are also in a very sensitive moment at the moment. food prices are rising across the european union, and the overall cost of living is rising. many families want or have to find a way out of this situation and unfortunately then also resort to cheaper food. and the positive market development that we've had for many organic products in recent years is threatening to collapse. this also reduces the incentive for farmers to switch to organic products. here we must be careful that this difficult moment does not become a longer-term brake on the organic market.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mrs schmiedtbauer and all the rapporteurs, especially eric andrieu of my political group, who have done a great job with this report, which concludes here with the vote tomorrow on the new eu action plan for organic farming, which is the continuation of the previous one, which ran from 2014 to 2020, and which sets out 23 new proposals. i think the development of organic farming has been evident in the last decade: it has grown by 66% (still perhaps still a low percentage for what we would like) and 8.5% of the area is dedicated to it. i am very proud of my region, andalusia, where we have devoted 23% of the agricultural area to agriculture, which means that we will soon be on the verge of reaching 25% without even having a green deal. there is a great deal of inequality between regions and between countries. there is no doubt that we must increase consumption and increase knowledge. but i believe, as the report says, that development and growth must be linked to a market-based approach.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our current model of agriculture is a triple disaster: for farmers' employment, for biodiversity and for public health. the new cap is an accelerator of this ongoing drama. the war in ukraine, on the other hand, reminds us of the absolute urgency of moving away from an agricultural model based on the injection of hydrocarbons for fertilisers and pesticides. this week's vote on the organic farming action plan is therefore a good opportunity to set the bar straight. unlike the industrialists and the financiers, i believe, as does commissioner timmermans, that there is an urgent need to produce better, and certainly not more, to ensure food sovereignty in europe and the world. i therefore tabled several amendments to ensure that the final text remains true to the objectives of the green deal and the 'farm to fork' strategy. among these, the objective of 25% of organic agricultural land in the european union by 2030 and, as you have just pointed out, commissioner, the creation of tools to make communities actors in the agricultural and food transition through the public procurement tool, for example for canteens. the agricultural disaster is not inevitable: let us send a strong signal for the sovereignty of farmers, the environment and our health.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the report by mrs schmiedtbauer balances the emphasis on ecological ambitions with the economic realities in the eu countries so well that it was accepted by acclamation in the committee on agriculture, which i would like to emphasize. however, the level of organic farming varies widely between member states, as discussed here. therefore, the setting of a binding target at union level requires a significant increase in expenditure in a short time, which puts member states with a lower level of agricultural development in a difficult position. it is therefore good that the rapporteur stresses the need to provide adequate financial incentives for the modernisation and maintenance of the viability of farms. however, it should be stressed that russia's aggression against ukraine and the ongoing war there is a blow to all eu strategies and may also be a blow to the development of eu organic agriculture. in the current situation, the priority should be to increase the efficiency of food production and in particular to maintain the supply of agricultural raw materials, in order to avoid famine, especially in africa, where ukraine has so far met a significant part of the demand for grain. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for supporting the amendments tabled by my group, the ecr. we were particularly keen that the promotion of environmental awareness and standards should also be extended to our trading partners in third countries, in order to reduce the disparity in requirements and burdens between eu farmers and their non-eu partners.
president. - we are continually crossing the limits of the earth. two weeks ago, in the netherlands, we used up all the raw materials that the earth can provide us with in one year. this is not the time to be lax in hoping that the next generation will come up with a solution. intensive farming is causing suffering to billions of animals, is highly dependent on pesticides and fertilizers, destroys biodiversity and emits a huge amount of greenhouse gases. now is the time to be ambitious and embrace the farmer-to-table strategy's target of having at least 25% of agricultural land organic by 2030. that means high animal welfare standards, no harmful poison and a clear quality label, so that citizens can make informed choices that are important not only for their own health, but also for the health of the entire planet and all its inhabitants. finally, i believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank mrs simone schmiedtbauer for her report. it was unanimously adopted. this shows, on the one hand, how important it is for us to promote organic farming across the political groups, and, on the other hand, of course, the high quality of the report by simone schmiedtbauer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. organic farming plays an important role in this, especially in terms of its contribution to the climate and biodiversity. in future, when we talk about organic farming in europe, one thing is very important to me: organic farming is important and must be promoted. however, conventional farming is just as important. both forms can be sustainable and are important for food security and affordability. i therefore believe that the promotion of organic farming must focus on these four points: the promotion of organic farming must be in line with the market. organic farming must be worthwhile, incentive-based, non-coercive and not subject to quotas. it needs to be accepted by the population, and the objectives must be realistic. second, organic has to become more productive. the current uncertainty on the markets and the increase in hunger in the world make it necessary to increase production also among organic farmers. thirdly, bio has to become more innovative and open-minded, including in terms of technology. there must be no formal exclusion criteria here in terms of resilience and in terms of resistance. fourthly, because of the war in ukraine, we are experiencing a shortage of organic egg protein feed. organic farmers have to resort to conventional feed. it is clear that not only conventional farming needs to become more independent, but that we need a pan-european protein strategy. i would like to stress once again the quality of the report and ask for your agreement.
madam president, commissioner, as we all know, the development of organic farming is a major challenge for the future of european agriculture. this is the way to really reduce the use of pesticides and to address human health issues. it is also a means of contributing to the social and economic vitality of rural areas and of making progress in animal welfare. the report we are voting on tomorrow is very balanced and supports the ambition of the commission, and i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs simone schmiedtbauer, for her report. but while this report voted in committee supports the objective of increasing the area under organic farming by 2030, it does not reach the 25% figure mentioned by the commission and we felt it was important to produce an amendment, if only to assess the benefit of public policies in the future. i would also like to stress that halving pesticide use by 2030 is not a leap in the dark, alternatives such as biocontrol are being developed and the most advanced research centres on the subject consider that the end of synthetic pesticides is achievable by 2050, provided that the means are provided and the course is firmly maintained, as is the case in this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank simone schmiedtbauer for her excellent work. we all agreed on your organic action plan in the agriculture committee. we have thus underlined our fundamental agreement that a higher share of organic farming can help achieve the objectives of the green deal and the farm-to-fork strategy. but the way to get there should not be based on compulsion and rules. i am convinced that increasing the production of organic food can only work together with an increased demand. we also know that organic products are generally more expensive than conventional products. and with the current inflation, with higher energy prices and higher food prices, it is questionable whether consumers will buy more organic products in the near future. i would also point out that we need to give farmers adequate support in developing more organic farming. the transition to organic farming remains a major challenge and carries many risks for the individual farmer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transition period is not too long, and that the transition period is not too long. for example, a clear logo for conversion products could help consumers to recognise this and thus also make targeted purchases to support farmers in this phase. with consumers on our side, we can work together to bring organic production forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already done so. i would like to mention the so-called new genetic engineering. for organic farmers, the push for deregulation is particularly worrying: they must remain 100% gmo-free, and so do the customers. what does the future hold for organic farming if gmos are allowed to flood the market undetected? this should have been addressed in the report. another aspect that is particularly close to my heart is animal welfare. i hope that the amendment will receive broad support, which will recognise that organic farming is a leader in animal welfare. of course, animal welfare can also be improved in many organic farms and in transport. however, organic standards should serve as a compass for the planned 2023 revision of eu animal welfare legislation. and i know, i know the counterargument, which is always, "it's too expensive". well, in the last two years, we've all seen firsthand how much poor treatment of animals can actually cost us as a society.
madam president, commissioner, i agree with mrs schmiedtbauer when she takes up the reality of the situation of organic production in her report and points out that the measures and instruments proposed by the commission must be based on impact assessment and comprehensive analysis, with, of course, the scientific basis taking precedence over political ambition. because when the commission says that the basis for this action plan on organic production is the european green deal and the farm-to-table strategy, it is wrong. the basis, in my view, for the reasonable development of this action plan is common sense. and common sense tells us that to advance the european food system we must give priority to the profitability of agricultural production and therefore a fair life for farmers. so i firmly believe that organic farming can coexist with traditional farming without the need for us to impose quotas or targets that would strangle the profitability and survival of our farms and our farmers. i am very grateful to mrs schmiedtbauer for a splendid report.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate, which assured me that i will have the support of parliament for ongoing work to protect the media in the eu. i said before that the eu has never done so much in the field of media, and it is maybe because we hear from many different sides ‘do not regulate media, they have to remain free’. this is exactly what we want. we want rather than regulate, we want to support, to protect and to give the media sufficient space and protection in the eu because we need a well—functioning media sector for our democracy. we discussed today about slapp or anti—slapp and as tiemo wӧlken said, we owe it to the journalists because we see too many processes and too many cases of abuse of justice, against freedom of speech, in fact. as the former justice commissioner, i have to fight against that. i do not want our courts to be abused. there is something elementarily unfair or incorrect. we have to narrow the space for abuse of justice. and why? also because we see that the goal of these abusive litigations is the process itself. and the longer and the more costly, the better for those who complain and who abuse the system. so this is not what european justice should be used for. this is a pioneering exercise. ramona strugariu said that it has not been easy to come to this point. it will not be easy to come to the point of the final adoption because i had a debate with the ministers of justice, and only some understood fully why we need to act. i am not criticizing them, i just say that this is surprisingly new for many of them and that it will require a lot of work not only to convince them to say yes to the cross—border directive or the directive which is looking into cross—border cases, which are always more costly and more difficult. we are doing it for a very good purpose, but at the same time to convince them to address the issues of domestic cases. the argument i heard from the ministers mainly was that we have to balance or guarantee free access to courts for everyone. even the rich and powerful person has the right to go to the court when he is facing some unprofessional behaviour from the side of the journalist or human rights or rights defenders. it can happen. so, i will keep promising to the ministers of justice that we will, in any case, balance these rights. i think already the text itself of the legislation shows that we tried to find the right balance. i said that never before so much attention to media. when you look into our rule of law reports, there is a very strong chapter on media. we are mapping the situation in all the member states this year. for the first time we will issue the recommendations. this might be a very strong instrument for the years to come, to have the proper insight on how the media situation looks like in the member states and what might be the measures to be taken. in the rest of my time – i have a generous five minutes, so i will use it in full. we have to do more for the media, especially now when we are in the information war. now we see things very clearly what we didn’t see several years ago. i have to say i was calling on action already several years ago when i saw that disinformation is part of the russian military doctrine. it was openly known that disinformation will be used as a weapon and they are exactly doing this, and disinformation can be very efficient. russian disinformation already is bearing fruits and it has the potential to do a lot of dirty work in the eu. that’s why we have to fight against disinformation by all means, and not to forget that our primary obligation is also to protect freedom of speech. but freedom of speech cannot be absolute and is not absolute in the eu. we have laws which are limiting the freedom of speech. nicolaus fest said that it is not defined anywhere, but hate speech is defined in all the member states penal courts. it is clearly defined. as for disinformation, we define it in several strategic papers and also in the digital services act it’s defined in the way of harmful content. if we give the freedom of speech absolute power, then we also absolutely resign on the truth. i truly believe that we must not be naive, especially now, in war time. we have to defend ourselves. we see how disinformation works. it’s not new. it was here already since 2014 and the annexation of crimea. we saw a lot of disinformation campaigns against ukraine and our campaigns which were organised to influence and manipulate european people. what we saw in covid time, disinformation was used as a poison. now in the ukrainian war, disinformation is used as a weapon. this is why we have to act. sorry, i had to also mention this because in the fight against disinformation, the media, the professional journalists, play an extremely important role because we need to get the facts right and we need the european people to understand the situation and make their own decisions and choices based on trustworthy facts. this is the job of the media, and that’s why we have to protect journalists.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. it is clear that in our current society we desperately need quality journalistic content and independent media to expose and interpret hidden flaws and to report reliably from the ground. this has been highlighted, for example, during the war in ukraine. we need a communication system that we can trust. we need a strong international agreement that protects journalists and our freedom of expression globally. the eu should also help journalists whose lives are in danger because of their work in third countries by means of a special protection and visa programme, such as the one i have previously proposed to women's rights defenders. given the many challenges facing our democracy, such as the widespread disinformation and misinformation and the fake news and troll factories that spread them, we need to create an environment where the media can fulfill its role as both a watchdog and the fourth branch of government. citizens must have access to diverse and independent news sources and the working conditions and safety of journalists must be guaranteed. it is regrettable that the trend in europe has also been negative in recent years. a free press is the lifeblood of a democracy, and we must do everything we can to ensure the safety of journalists in every situation.
the next item is the report (a9-0088/2022) by mr axel voss, on behalf of the special committee on artificial intelligence in the digital age, on artificial intelligence in the digital age (2020/2266 (ini)). i would point out that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats and therefore all members can move close to the speaker. you can use your voting machine to request spontaneous messages and to insert blue cards after you have inserted your voting card. i would therefore ask you to bring your voting card with you at all times. instructions are available in the chamber. if you wish to register for a spontaneous debate, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. in line with the recommendations of the focus group, the speaking time for all speeches during the debate on priority issues shall be at least two minutes. the same is true of spontaneous verbal communication. i would also like to point out that blue cards can also be held up for a short verbal message and that a follow-up question is permitted afterwards. i would also point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium. this does not apply to spontaneous speeches, blue cards and statements on the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time. i had to say this because these are innovations beyond the focus group and secondly, of course, not all colleagues in our house have been able to live up to these customs yet, because we have two years of pandemic and special regulations behind us.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i also want to thank you for being able to explain all this so well, and i think it's good that you're here. but i also want to thank you very much, madam vice-president, for coming, and i also want to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for what we have achieved here, and of course also the secretariat and our assistants. we've achieved a lot, but we could have been even more daring or even more revolutionary, because artificial intelligence is a key technology. it's the key technology, basically a kind of booster of digitization, and it has a high strategic relevance for us. every area of our lives will be affected by this technological change, and the consequences for our competitiveness, for our prosperity, for our security, cannot be underestimated. and i think that we really have to ask ourselves here, in this fast-paced development, how do we really want to survive as an eu, as europe, in a digital and data-driven world? how are we going to compete with other regions of the world that are far more consistent and targeted in their research and development, investing, training talent, putting a lot of money into their hands and being much more flexible in responding to new developments? we have something to offer the world as europe, by combining our values with technology. and that's not what you have in these other regions. but it has to happen at a speed in our very complex structure, that we are the first to come up with new ideas, that we can anticipate future developments. to insist on what was once created is the wrong way. we have to sit down every night and figure out how to be better tomorrow. and this is not to scare us, this is to encourage us, because this change has huge opportunities for us to benefit society as a whole, whether it's health, whether it's sustainability -- these are just a few examples. all these opportunities must be seized. we have listed them in this report, and with our human-centred, trust-based approach to ai, which is also based on fundamental rights, on european values, we can also respond appropriately to all those risks that threaten our freedom and security. social scoring, disinformation, automated weapons or less drastic examples: these are of course what we do not want. but with this european approach, we have the chance to set global standards. we need to be more proactive. and we would be squandering that opportunity if we were not the global leader in global competition. otherwise, our standards fall back, and instead we end up as a kind of digital colony with the very forces that don't share our values. the european union is currently lagging behind in terms of competition, and we lack market power, research and competence. and this is where the report starts: what more needs to happen for us to possibly make better progress? what steps do we need to take in the next few years to help shape ai and not just sit back and watch? artificial intelligence is the turning point in this digital revolution in europe, and this report is intended to be the turning point. unfortunately, my time is up. i would have liked to have said something more about the content, but perhaps we can catch up later. i would like to thank everyone once again for the opportunity to commemorate this achievement.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this debate. i find it very important that we are here today. and, first of all, i want to congratulate all members of the aida committee. the report is very comprehensive; it draws, i think, a rich picture of the landscape of artificial intelligence in europe. artificial intelligence can be a precious tool, solving some of the biggest challenges in our time, or at least helping us solve some of the biggest challenges. because artificial intelligence, as any other technology, is a tool for humans and no matter the technology, our societies will be no better or no worse than the choices we make as humans. but we have choices to make because some citizens are still left out when it comes to health, and we are all still not quite there when it comes to fighting climate change. we see many synergies in the aida report and the commission approach to artificial intelligence. our approach to ai also recognises the two sides of the ai mettle that we just heard of, providing enormous opportunities in terms of economic growth, to our well-being. but using ai for certain applications, well, it also carries risks, risk of something fundamental that are the building blocks of our society and our democracy. and there you have use cases that should be tackled with legislation. we want artificial intelligence to flourish, to reap the benefits but, of course, also to make sure that we address any possible concern to ensure what is trustworthy technology, what is technology used in a way that puts the human at the centre and that respects europe’s social market model. we want to make europe a global leader in adapting these latest technologies and in developing these technologies, seizing the benefits, promoting the development of this technology. our ambition is to increase public and private investment to a total of eur 20 billion per year over the course of this coming decade. well, currently we stand at about eur 14 billion per year of combined public and private investment in artificial intelligence throughout europe. for the commission side, we’re investing 50 billion in horizon europe to create a network of ai excellence centres, to bring together excellence, because we know that talent attracts talent, and if we want the best to come here, we need to invest. and we are also investing in industrial research. we just set up a public—private partnership on artificial intelligence to deal with data and robotics, strengthening the use of artificial intelligence when it comes to our industrial needs, and of course, also how we can make our societies more sustainable. and in the context of the ai act, we foresee a number of measures that ensure that startups and smes are encouraged and not discouraged from developing their technologies within the european union. foremost is the creation of regulatory sandboxes, which will ensure an environment in which business and regulators can cooperate in ensuring the development of ai is in compliance. but i think the most important thing here is that, as legislators, we are not suggesting you to regulate technology. we are suggesting you to regulate the use of technology in order for that to be future-proof, in order not for making the next developer, the next researcher, the legislator look as if we were in the past. but to regulate in the use cases, and i think that is how to create trust, that elected representatives as you are thinking about something that is indeed future-proof, that preserves the fundamentals while at the same time enabling this technology to serve us at our best when we want to fight climate change, increase cohesion and make sure that all the other use cases they can be as prosperous as possible. i think together we can achieve this, and parliament has already put forward suggestions for civil liability regimes for ai and we will follow up on this with legislative proposals later this year, to create the necessary synergies between the ai act and ai liability rules to develop an overall regulatory framework for ai, because that is part of creating trust – that, if damaged, you can get compensation. together, i think we can achieve this. i have been enjoying and i’ve been learning from the cooperation with the european parliament in these many months, and i look forward for our continued cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, executive vice-president, rapporteur, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in the past, whoever ruled the waves ruled the world. in the future, i believe whoever rules artificial intelligence will dominate the world. and this is where i believe europe’s challenge lies. just as we seek to use ai for the betterment of society, we see autocracies seeking ways to weaponise it. they do so by trying to create a digital dystopia. what we notice is that when it comes to the spread of disinformation, mass hacks, the dark web, cyberattacks and autonomous weapons systems, all these phenomena can be aided by artificial intelligence. if the west loses the race to gain the social, economic and security benefits of ai, there will be a fundamental shift in global order, and this is why i believe this report seeks to shape ai in our democratic image. and it is precisely to build trust, to create an ethical framework for innovation; we have to try and be the champions for a future that ensures ai is the vessel for those ground—breaking innovations when it comes to health outcomes, when it comes to effective cybersecurity or scientific discovery or greater sustainability. we cannot let authoritarian states such as china and russia beat us to this technological punch. and i believe if we have enough political will, which i hope we show in this report, enough financial investment and legal certainty, i believe we could attract the so much needed investment, but also be able to foster world—leading innovation. so i would like to congratulate my colleague axel voss on this report, because i believe technology and democracy have to go hand in hand. and i think with this report, we set the right path in achieving that.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president vestager, artificial intelligence presents many opportunities and potential benefits in many fields, if used in accordance with our fundamental values, with respect for human dignity and the environment, for the good of society. this is our european model. a year and a half of work by the special committee has enabled us to explore the fundamental aspects of these technologies and their impact on various economic sectors, the social repercussions, the geopolitical implications. the implications of this call for europe to play a leading role in establishing its own model for artificial intelligence, in working on global standards, because technology will be one of the main theatres on which the future of international relations will be played out. this requires a unified and competitive internal market, where everyone is able to innovate within the rules, from privacy to competition. that is why we are working on the regulation - which you mentioned earlier - which will be a fundamental element in the development of a genuine european industry in this field. among the various points made in the report, i would particularly mention the proposal for a legislative initiative on the use of artificial intelligence in the workplace. teleworking has accelerated and made more apparent not only the efficiency gains but also the potentially harmful effects of the use of these technologies on workers. monitoring their performance without their consent or without their knowledge, without prior consultation of their representatives, as we unfortunately see happening, must not be allowed in europe. at the same time, we will have to combat possible misuse of real-time biometric recognition in public places for security reasons. we don't want a surveillance company. i therefore thank the rapporteurs and all the members for the constructive discussions over the past few months which have resulted in a balanced text full of proposals, very useful for the legislative work ahead.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, axel voss, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their good work and excellent cooperation. i consider this report a good vision paper which describes our ambitions and how to reach them. our aim is to build human—centric artificial intelligence, which will serve our people while respecting their privacy. the report encourages us to use more solutions based on artificial intelligence. the report is carried out by the sense of urgency. the european union must significantly increase its investments in artificial intelligence so we have competitive solutions. the european union must also significantly improve the access to data, but bearing in mind that the only legal basis for the processing of data is the general data protection regulation. i hope this report will lead the way in the development of artificial intelligence in europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. artificial intelligence is fuelling the imagination of both technology enthusiasts and opponents of increasing automation in the economy and society. reconciling these two approaches and building a broad compromise is a difficult task, but it is possible. unfortunately, we do not think that this report has been entirely successful. we appreciate the efforts and commitment of the rapporteur in working on this report, but as the ecr we abstain. the final text lacks a clear, coherent and strong message that europe is serious about joining the global technological race and being a place where innovation is not only consumed but also created. ai is a huge opportunity for our businesses, including small and medium-sized businesses, to develop cutting-edge products and services if they are given the right support. this is why it is so important to invest in research and development and to work closely on ethical, legal and technical standards with international partners who can and want to share their knowledge and experience in ai with us. we cannot allow our strategy for advancing artificial intelligence and the data-driven economy to fall victim to long and fruitless discussions. especially since we are working on the regulation of the ai act, which should first of all create a legal framework that is friendly to innovation. i hope we will take this opportunity and not build another bureaucratic corset for companies, including european ones, operating in the new technology sector.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president [...] (start of speech off mic) works of the aida committee. it took a lot of effort and a lot of mutual understanding as well. i have to say that we are highly critical about the main ideas of the final draft. i have to admit that some progress was made in the course of the procedure and that some slight positive elements were introduced as regards artificial intelligence and the labour market, health and data privacy and digital skills literacy as a component of basic education. beyond those points, the report acknowledges that it’s not possible to devise artificial intelligence algorithms, as our group pointed to. however, our group cannot share the overall flexible and risk-based business approach of artificial intelligence and the dramatic one on the european union at risk, including a bold narrative of a pro-united states and anti-china approach throughout the report, instead of a broader, multilateral and collaborative global vision. we particularly regret that our proposal to include a multilateral approach for artificial intelligence cooperation with third countries, using international organisations such as the united nations, was not accepted in the committee. the final report lacks relevant points, like the absence of regulation for high—risk cases and no strong message on the environmental impact of uncontrolled development of artificial intelligence as regards raw materials, co2 emissions and energy consumption. the report acknowledges the gender gap, but falls short on making clear policy recommendations for increasing the role of women in artificial intelligence research and development. the worst part is the one concerning law enforcement and defence, where it calls for closer cooperation with nato in cyber defence and calls on nato allies to regulate the military use of artificial intelligence. no ban on the deployment of facial recognition and no ban on all autonomous weapons systems. these are key points for a civil liberties—compliant development of artificial intelligence. therefore, we are left with a report with no clear goals except for flexible regulation for business, aligning with nato and the us in foreign ai policy, and stressing on china’s standard setting of artificial intelligence posing as an evil challenge for the european union. these issues are crucial for our group and i encourage you all to support our amendments on nato’s role and on the implementation of ai in the field of the development of european minority languages. but may i call your attention to our amendments, particularly regarding the banning of facial recognition and autonomous weaponry. as i said before, these aspects should be taken on board in a sensitive document like this.
mr president, we are debating a report which is indeed a key one, which concludes eighteen months of work and which is also a very important exercise in dialogue in the european parliament. i would like to thank in particular the coordinators of this special committee, also the chairman and the bureau, for the work they have done, in particular the many debates and conferences and a total of fourteen public hearings and eight seminars. in short, it is a joint effort by the whole of the european parliament, covering everything from transport to agriculture, health and the fight against cancer, the economy, competitiveness, finance, the green deal and the data strategy. and we have also talked about the impact on democracy, misinformation, the risks to fundamental rights, discrimination, including gender equality, and the role that women should also play in the development of european artificial intelligence. two points should be made: firstly, this was a fully democratic debate. various views were expressed with the participation of stakeholders from industry, civil society, academia and also users, as well as national parliaments. secondly, there has been a balance needed to foster innovation and limit risks in artificial intelligence. i would also like to thank the socialist and democratic group for the work done by the rapporteurs and the alternative rapporteurs in drafting this report, which is a very balanced report, with over a thousand amendments, many of them by the way from the socialist and democratic group, and which responds perfectly to the task assigned to us. it indicates a majority position of the european parliament on all aspects relating to the development and dissemination of artificial intelligence in europe. it also emphasises very specific aspects, with examples, in each case, of the potential benefits or risks that may be presented by the use of artificial intelligence. to give some examples, in health, we highlight the benefits in treating diseases and new medicines; in the green pact, we highlight the need to create artificial intelligence to make it sustainable and support the environmental transition; in foreign and security policy, we make a geostrategic analysis; in competitiveness, we highlight the need to improve our research and support for small and medium-sized enterprises; in the labour market, we call for a specific legislative initiative that can regulate use at work and that respects the rights of workers and ends surveillance in the workplace; also in school, by encouraging digital illustration. finally, i think this is a report which will be particularly useful for future work and i would like to thank everyone who has taken part in it.
madam president, dear vice-president vestager, colleagues, we are in danger of european values being replaced globally, our businesses being marginalised and our living standards being drastically reduced. these are not my words, as you know, but those of the report we adopted today after months of work in the special committee on artificial intelligence. fighting for the technological leadership of the european union is not an option. not only because our competitiveness depends on it, but because we cannot risk others who do not share our values imposing the rules on us. europe is brave and setting the global standard for artificial intelligence: ethical, trustworthy, serving citizens and focused on our democratic values. the challenge will be to avoid over-regulation, avoid duplication and a system of governance that avoids a fragmented market with 27 different interpretations. our companies, especially small ones, need a single market, free of bureaucracy, which will enable them to innovate and grow in europe. that said, the report we are adopting today is more than a wake-up call. it's a road map with clear proposals that must accompany legislation if we are to compete for leadership. i am talking, for example, about the creation of a nasdaq-like stock exchange, which helps our digital companies to be able to be financed quickly with european capital. i am talking about increasing public and private investment to at least 20 billion euros a year. i am talking about investing in training to reduce the shortage of skilled workers, but also to ensure that workers are able to integrate technology into their daily lives and to free themselves from repetitive tasks that machines can do. and above all, i am talking about a european area of interoperable data that will free us from foreign dependence. it is urgent to make up for lost time to ensure that the huge advances in artificial intelligence benefit all of society. and today we take a big step.
madam president, madam commissioner, thank you for submitting to this exercise, which is the first time we have done it and i know it is a challenge. and thank you for the measures you're taking. we will not have energy autonomy in europe without reducing fossil fuels, without increasing renewable energy, without interconnections, and we cannot begin to increase that strategic autonomy if we do not think about the problems we have with prices, right now, in the electricity market. the recent acer report has just made it clear to us that this market was not designed for emergency situations and we are facing an emergency situation. so my specific question is, are you going to address electricity market reforms in terms of these emergency situations, because i think it's important. and finally, as regards interconnections, i shall be more specific than mrs maria da graça carvalho. i will ask you clearly whether you intend to finance green gas or hydrogen-friendly connections in the iberian peninsula.
madam president, i wanted to say that commissioner simson has not been very specific about the gas interconnections. i understand that there is a need for evaluation, but as regards electricity interconnections, which are less than 3% when they should already be almost 15%, the iberian peninsula is not being met. so what are you gonna do about the electrical interconnects? because we're cut off from gas and electricity. so we have to sort this out somehow if we are to really integrate the market. because if we want everyone to play by the same rules, we're going to have to have the same conditions.
the id group can well understand, mr president, that the knights and maidens of the european empire, the powers in the european parliament and the commission, the advocates of a european union that is moving towards a centralized state, have become very frustrated over the years. it must be frustrating to see that more and more european citizens are rejecting their vision of cooperation between european peoples. the fact that a large member state like the united kingdom simply ignored it hit like a bomb and left a deep trauma. the frustration of this elite club at the threat that one election after another poses, namely the slowly emerging and growing awakening of a public opinion critical of the way things are going, is understandable. everyone knows and feels that the legitimacy of the empire's strategy is waning. when the powers that be felt obliged in 2019 to assign the key posts to unelected eu fanatics for the sake of their delicate balance of power and their imperative to preserve power, von der leyen and michel macron felt that this large democratic deficit had to be compensated. in the tradition of macron, this could not of course be done by means of a referendum, but, following the example of his grand débat, it had to be a well-directed and tightly staged piece of theatre, which could then be labelled as a decision of the citizens. of the 400 million people on this continent, 800 were carefully selected, brought to parliament and locked up with guy verhofstadt until they had approved the continuation of the imperial strategy as their own proposal. the confusion of this conference with what is happening among the citizens, according to the id group, is therefore a sign of great cynicism. stop this commedia dell'arte. she was a fine piece of macronian and courtly theater, but she's nothing more than that.
madam president, we are being given five pages identical to the original document to vote on as conclusions of the conference on the future of europe, because you had already written the conclusions. come on, be honest: you don't give a shit about the europeans. what you want is more power. if it were not for you, there would be no national parliaments. they talk about democracy, but they impose the noose of silence on those who dissent. they talk about social rights, but their elitism and climate fanaticism blinds them to the fact that their green transition is leading to the collapse of the working classes in europe. you've silenced the real debate, but you've gotten yourself a good globalist romp at the expense of europeans' money. in the midst of the economic crisis, they propose a new treaty. they're like true sociopaths. the europe they are drawing is a europe subservient to agenda 2030, without nerve, without spirit, without nations to nourish its richness and diversity, a europe that betrays the pillars on which it was built, surrendered to foreign economies. but now, be brave, go out now and say that this document does not mention the family, business, european culture and tradition, radical islam, sexual violence in the streets, unemployment, closure of businesses or unprotected borders. look, centuries ago the elites were the first to go out to the battlefield; now you hide in the tower of babel and send europeans to the slaughter. (the speaker agreed to reply to two interventions made under the 'blue card' procedure.)
the answer is 'blue card'. it is very simple, because you, without informing any of the europeans who voted for us, are now talking about a convention to change the treaties and want to change even the rule of unanimity, which is absolute respect for democracy and the nations that make up europe, for their parliaments and their governments.
the answer is 'blue card'. my political group is the only one to have held a conference on the future of europe, visiting all the capitals of europe. 800 citizens are representative of the european people. i, as a politician, go back to my country every weekend and talk to farmers, i talk to cattle farmers, i talk to fishermen, i talk to the self-employed, and i can assure them that the problems of european citizens are not unanimity or a new treaty to create a more resilient europe that is absolutely condemning them to economic failure and the collapse of their lives.
madam president, we are living in uncertain times, we have been dealing with the pandemic for two years and we have managed to make social europe stronger, but the monstrosity of war has brought back the ghosts of economic austerity and the ultra-rightist nightmare of the safe enclaves (religion, the nation state and the conventional family). europe is once again torn between the politics of hope and fear, between a bright tomorrow in which we all fit and the atavisms which always represent the future as a threat. we cannot have a europe of merchants or of the fear of their god, but a europe of care, democracy and the sustainability of life. that is why it is so important that we amend the treaties: to strengthen the european social pillar, to constitutionalise feminist and environmental demands, to articulate real mechanisms of participation, to avoid vetoes in the council and to give parliament the legislative initiative it deserves. because this is where the citizens sit. no more goods in front of people. never again the few against the many. nor a government overriding the decisions of others. it is time for a social, feminist, democratic and federal europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens have shown that they have no doubts about the future of europe. they want it to be more democratic, more transparent, more just, more equitable and above all, to be more courageous in facing the challenges of the climate crisis and the ecological crisis. the citizens selected by lot have proved to be ahead of their representatives by making careful and far-sighted recommendations at this extraordinary experiment in participatory democracy, the conference on the future of europe. let me give you an example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they therefore ask us to develop an agricultural model in balance with nature. we are asked to drastically reduce, for example, the consumption of meat and animal products, and to promote plant-based diets. i am therefore far ahead of this european policy. i therefore ask the institutions, and in particular the governments, not to ignore the call of the citizens, but to make it the cornerstone of the renewal of our european home, which is now more necessary than ever. we are moving forward with a european convention.
madam president, it is very amusing to watch you try to justify the untenable clown show you have created and loudly called the 'conference on the future of europe'. what conference, what future for europe? where's your representation? the ngo mob, the merry band of the children. that was your representation. you should have invited mickey mouse, donald duck, and duck duck. they would be more representative and would show exactly what you did with that ridiculous clown act that you spent an awful lot of money on that you should... (noise) (speaker interrupts and turns to the chairman) madam chairman, would you please ask this colleague to behave properly, and not act as if he were in the stadium in his hometown? - thank you. - thank you. but i insist that you give me my time back. (speaker resumes his speech) colleague, you seem a little excited, if you've calmed down, let's continue. the question is, how much money did you spend on this job? who gave them to you and what did they go for? the truth is that we are fighting for a europe of homelands: a normal europe, with a normal society, a family made up of a man and a woman, in the natural, beautiful, good order of things. and since you keep talking about a european identity that does not exist, has not existed, cannot exist, i will quote a great european, otto von bismarck. some of you who are book lovers may have come across this name. he says, 'i have always found the word 'europe' in the mouths of those politicians who demanded from other powers something they did not dare to demand in their own name.' that's it, fellas. shame on you. this conference ended in disgrace. but it's worth seeing how much money you spent on it. (the speaker accepts to answer three 'blue card' statements)
blue-card reply. – honourable colleague, it was not a question; it is against the procedure, under the blue-card procedure you are expected to ask me a question, not to make a statement. no, it was not a question. madam chair, is it normal for the member to take the floor for himself?
he asked you a question. it was the way he felt. we have to be careful of our language in this room.
blue-card reply. – i am very careful. my hands are over here, just so you know, because maybe someone will misunderstand my gestures. dear colleague, it’s not about the people here. it’s about the so-called conference of europe itself. it was a charade. it was a mickey mouse fake organisation. this is the truth. ngos ... who picked the people here? please, i am answering here. show some respect. do you know how are organised, the people from the ngos, here? who picked them? no? you don’t know? yes, of course you don’t. nobody knows. that is the answer. ah ok. member states? no, it’s not true.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a 'blue card' intervention. yes, mr dzhambazki, you have said (you have it in the podium) that there is no such thing as a european identity and i want to ask you about that. i think there is. do you not think that figures like beethoven, molière, cervantes, elements of greco-roman culture, the contribution of the intellectuals of the renaissance and the enlightenment, all of these make up the european identity?
blue-card reply. – no sir, with all my respect, i believe these people were germans, austrians, hungarians, italians, greeks. and yes, we share this continent, and we need to live together and work together, but we have our differences and we have our own national identity and we must be proud of our identity – respecting the others, of course – but there is no such thing as a european one, because people are different. what was it? ‘united in diversity’? isn’t that right? yes, it is. so there is no european identity. there is a national one, and there is a european union and we have to work together respectfully for each other.
the conference on the future of europe has taken a positive step forward, madam president. those of us who doubted whether this was a positive step towards a more united, democratic, transparent and fairer europe were shouted at, insulted and derided by the far right wing of the european parliament, and this fact convinces us that something good has been achieved by this conference for the future of europe. and now we have the challenge to take the next step, colleagues. the joint resolution proposed by the chairmen, from the european people's party to the left, is a positive step. it means that we listen to the voice of the people and that direct participatory democracy strengthens representative democracy. but we must go further and we want you, vice-president šimečka and council members - who were absent and a little 'mad' in this process of the conference on the future of europe - to help and not undermine the initiative that the european parliament will take to call for a constituent assembly to revise the treaties on the basis of article 48. we shall take the initiative as a european parliament with large majorities, no matter how much the extreme right shouts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up.
madam president, the conference on the future of europe, which was launched under the portuguese presidency and will end on 9 may, was a very important exercise in participatory democracy and it is now the duty of the european political institutions to take its conclusions seriously. the citizens have spoken. they have asked us for a europe that is more true to its values, closer, more democratic and more participatory, a europe that is more social, more united and more just, with less poverty and less inequality, and a europe that is stronger and more efficient, with fewer obstacles in its decision-making processes. some of the proposals require an ever more complex revision of the treaties and must be discussed in the proper place, which is a convention. but many others can and should move forward now, exploiting the potential of the lisbon treaty and implementing progressive reforms for a europe that meets the expectations of its voters. that is what the citizens are asking us to do. that's what we should do without delay.
madam president, there was a lot of excitement in this house a few days ago when the conclusions of the conference were adopted. people hugged and congratulated each other after a year of work. a mother came with her baby of a few months and told us about the future of europe. this is exactly the emotion we need to give europe a new soul and a new spirit. for me, there are two lessons from this exercise in participatory democracy. the first is that it is time to make this exercise of direct consultation with citizens permanent. the second is that we have a duty now: to implement these conclusions of the conference, including by triggering a convention immediately.
madam president, dear commissioner, the conference on the future of europe has been an interesting democratic experiment with promising results in terms of further european integration. it has provided a way for citizens, especially those randomly chosen for the panels, to lead the debate and to decide on recommendations for the future. however, it has failed to reach a wider audience and to have a relevant impact on public opinion, and we have to admit it as well. many of the proposals are an invitation to reform the union through changes in the treaties, increasing the union’s powers, putting in place better decision-making and allocating a stronger role for our parliament, and that is good. but i regret that highly endorsed proposals in the digital platform, like the one on a clarity mechanism to apply the right to self-determination, have simply been ignored. now, the official ending of the conference should mean the beginning of a reform process, a reform that incorporates the lessons learnt during the last years and brings about a stronger, more federal european union. yes, let’s honour the conference results with the convention. if not now, then when?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, last saturday in this house i announced on behalf of the ecr group that we were withdrawing from the conference. i did so with the sincere disappointment of those who have been actively involved in the work over the past few months. i spoke of a missed opportunity, but in the last few days i have had to admit to myself that whoever came up with this was actually good, because he carried out his plan on time. we needed a mechanism of sham participation with supposed representatives of the citizens who in reality represent no one but the ngos and friendly associations that have indicated them. organizational chaos and unclear decision-making mechanisms were needed. it was to prevent even the proposals of those who, like us, have a different idea of the future of europe, from being traced, so that the 9 may rally could end by saying that there was a consensus, the same consensus which, paradoxically, you want to eliminate from the treaties by majority vote. that's what this expensive circus was for, and you got it. but outside this bubble are hundreds of millions of europeans who have not been involved in the slightest and are not even represented. and finally, mr president, these hundreds of millions of europeans have the right to express their opinion in their national democracies if they continue to be, in spite of everything, in spite of you, the salt of european democracy.
madam president, first of all, we have to thank the citizens who have invested their time in the conference on the future of europe, those who participated in the citizens' panels and in the plenary sessions and all those who left their feedback in the contributions of the multilingual website. these people have shown us once again that citizenship is ahead of the european institutions, which are more flexible and more effective in detecting what is wrong and how to fix it. that is why the outcome of the conference, in general, offers a much more progressive vision than the composition of this parliament, for example, which is a matter of satisfaction. in this regard, citizens supported as the second most voted contribution on the digital platform an initiative to resolve sovereignty conflicts in the european union based on the application of a clarity mechanism that has not been included in the final text of the conference. we believe that this is a mistake; europe cannot reinvent itself by leaving out stateless nations, and we will insist on this. finally, we support the call by the european convention for a possible reform of the treaties. it will be an opportunity to separate what works and what does not and to highlight the europe of human rights, the social europe and guardian of the rights of peoples, so that they can freely decide their future.
madam president, thank you, vice-president, for your presence in the debate and also for what you have done by co-chairing this conference with these very good outcomes. they are clearly pointing to the need to improve the competencies, the capabilities of the european union to act in very important fields, but also to improve the degree of democratic legitimacy, and the participation of citizens in the european project. many things have been said. i made them my own. also, what prime minister draghi said this morning about pragmatic and ideal federalism. now, i would like to address you directly, because you have been saying, and i understand that as a positive thing, that you believe that the commission should play an honest broker role in this process. but i believe that maybe the commission can also join parliament. parliament has made clear the position in this resolution about the next step, the convention and the reform of the treaties. and also, by the way, as you very well know, we approved today with a large majority the electoral law, including the union-wide constituency. why doesn’t the commission and the parliament join together? because we know the council, they are good guys, but not particularly the vanguard of the european union. so, the commission and parliament working together, what do you think? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card intervention)
the answer is "blue card". i know, you ask, because of mr sandro gozi, who is standing before me, and who is a dear comrade and friend, and i know that it is absolutely possible. he did it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, mr commissioner, cybersecurity is a matter of democracy. the war we are living right now, which affects children, women and men, has faces, but also the face of computing. the european union must therefore rise to the occasion. ukraine is facing unprecedented cyber attacks on the ministry of defense and also on the banking system. the european union is challenged to update its cybersecurity strategy. it is important, as the commissioner said, to update the cybersecurity directive. we need to be up to date, but we also need to do a deeper analysis of what we consider to be critical infrastructure. it is no longer the traditional infrastructure, nuclear power stations, value chains or, for example, power stations, but now also among those critical infrastructures are digitisation, banking systems and also electoral systems. the european union must be able to give a coordinated response and protect its single market. war and cybersecurity are also increasingly coming together. the european union must be more digital and protect its cybersecurity.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, it is clear that putin's war is not only being waged in ukraine and that the european union has more than enough mechanisms at its disposal to further weaken the moscow regime: sanctions, sanctions and more sanctions. but we must not forget that all this comes at a cost and that it can bring us to the brink of economic ruin and also the collapse of our own energy system. sanctions, which are absolutely necessary, have consequences for our logistics network, for our supply chain and for our transport. every day they raise the price of fuel and gas more and more, in an exorbitant way. ladies and gentlemen, let us put an end once and for all to dependence on russian gas and oil, but let us also prepare for the storage of that gas and oil in the medium and long term, especially in winter. there is a solution to this, a viable alternative solution, 100% european and strategic, which also counteracts putin's supply cuts and allows us to end our dependence on russian gas. that solution is spain. spain has a unique gas and oil storage capacity in europe, gas and regasification, capable of importing liquefied natural gas from any other market and becoming the gateway for gas to europe. it has six gas plants unique in europe. however, there is a bottleneck: the lack of connection beyond the pyrenees to what is the central european connection system. what is needed is called project midcat. ladies and gentlemen, in times of crisis, political will is needed, and just as we are calling for sanctions, which are absolutely necessary, we cannot have the audacity to ask for unnecessary sacrifices from the citizens of europe, especially if we have not done everything humanly possible to make that happen. ladies and gentlemen, in this case we have not yet tried everything. the midcat project is precisely that opportunity for spain and europe. ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer blame others. it depends on the political will and it depends on us.
the next item is the debate on the report by javier zarzalejos, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2016/794 as regards europol's cooperation with private parties, europol's processing of personal data in support of criminal investigations and europol's role in research and innovation (com ((2020) 0796 c9-0401/2020 2020/0349 ((cod)) (a90290/2021).
rapporteur. – mr president, in my capacity as rapporteur i am particularly honoured to address the plenary on the new europol regulation. this regulation, the new mandate for europol, marks a substantial, i would say, leap forward in the capabilities of the agency, in its ability to support member states, in the governance framework and, last but certainly not least, in the enhanced system of safeguards that we have put in place. this regulation is the result of a shared concern about the need to have a better and more efficient instrument to support member states in a security landscape with evolving and increasingly complex threats. let me underline that the parliament has been at the forefront in promoting the europol recast. i’d like to commend and express my appreciation for the work done by my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, from the very beginning of this process following the presentation of the legislative proposal by the commission on 9 december 2020. we have dealt with sensitive issues from different views but we have been able to create an atmosphere of real cooperation and open exchange. no concern has been overlooked and no contribution has been disregarded. and let me add that in the best spirit of compromise even those outside the majority consensus can see some of the contributions reflected in this regulation. we have established a sound legal basis for the analysis and processing of large and complex data sets, and accordingly, there will be extended information sharing and enforcement rights for the edps on europol planned data processing operations. under the new mandate, europol will cooperate effectively and directly with private parties for establishing jurisdiction. and will be allowed to exchange data with private parties directly in online crisis situations related to the massive dissemination of terrorist content and in the fight against child sexual abuse material online. europol will be able to support member states in the use of emerging technologies and in developing common technological solutions. and under the new mandate, it will be possible for those projects to include the processing of personal data for the sake of security, subject to very tight safeguards. the new mandate also provides for the capacity of europol to propose member states the entry of information alerts in the interest of the union in the schengen information system, based on information received from third countries or international organisations. the new mandate clearly improves and widens the scope of the cooperation with the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) and with the european anti-fraud office (olaf). europol and eppo should conclude a working arrangement setting out the modalities of their cooperation, taking due account of their respective competences. the increase of the capacities should ultimately be matched by adequate resources for europol. but more importantly it will be accompanied by more transparency, parliamentary oversight, greater democratic accountability and a wide array of safeguards that guarantee full respect for data protection. that is a major political achievement of the parliament and it shows our ability to reach reasonable and workable compromises, first among us, the political groups represented in this parliament, and then with the council. and i have to commend the role the commission has been playing. i think that the parliament has delivered on its duty. we have taken into account the new operational requirements of law enforcement, the necessary balance with the basic responsibilities of members states, which remains in the hands of member states, the conditions for an enhanced police cooperation and the safeguards and democratic oversight that go along these developments. a better governance, an efficient system of oversight and controls proportionate to the new capabilities that we place on the agency will only result in a better and more efficient europol which is fit for the challenge. that is exactly what this regulation is all about.
mr president, i am convinced that we need a solid legal basis for the handling of such sensitive personal data and i therefore welcome this proposal for a regulation and the rapporteur's report. it is clear that we are facing a whole series of cyber attacks, as we have already discussed in the previous debate, and we must respond to the new terrorist challenges. of course, there are many ways to respond. from the private companies, of course, the expansion, the terrorism warning, that's all the personal data we're working with. at the same time, however, i would also like to stress the need for clear legal guarantees that these data will not be misused and that the procedure will be conducted in accordance with precisely defined legal rules, i.e. transparency in this procedure, parliamentary oversight and, of course, a certain security mechanism. i think we can build a better and safer europol, but with clear guarantees.
madam president, commissioner johansson, you heard it clearly, the european parliament is well aware that in the years of the pandemic there has been an exponential increase in cybercrime - such as phishing or online sexual abuse - which requires a reinforcement of europol's mandate to handle big data, but to do so in a way that is always consistent with globalisation and the technological revolution and with the european standard of protection of fundamental rights, which is the highest in the world. that is why you have heard with insistence the message that it is essential to safeguard the european standard of protection of fundamental rights in this strengthening of europol's mandate to cooperate with third states, with private actors, in the handling of big data and in its capacity to fight serious transnational crime. i think that is the message that emerges clearly from this debate and that is why it is important that the regulation should include the fundamental rights officer, which is what we have demanded in the renewal of each agency that is accountable to the european parliament and in particular to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
member of the commission. – thank you and thank you very much for the debate. europol was created to facilitate police cooperation and support national law enforcement investigations. when terrorist and organised criminal groups are becoming more violent, more international, more digital and deeply involved in corruption, the tools for law enforcement must develop. and to be able to deliver on its core a task for europol to facilitate police cooperation and support national law enforcement investigations, europol really needs this new mandate. hopefully it will get it, thanks to the excellent work by the rapporteur javier zarzalejos and together with the shadow rapporteurs have been working very constructively together with the council to find this good compromise. many of you here in the debate have raised the very important issue of safeguards and transparency, especially when it comes to handling personal data and big data. i should say that thanks to the constructive works in the trialogue, we have that now in place in the new mandate. europol will represent a model of transparent and responsible law enforcement innovation. and i’m proud of that.
rapporteur. – mr president, madam commissioner, at this time of the evening i think that it is not the support some of you have expressed, but your physical presence in the hemicycle that i really have to thank you for. let me just say that europol’s record is a success and we have to prolong and to strengthen that success, that i am aware of the doubts and the criticism that has been expressed from some groups and some members. i regret to say that some of them stem from an utterly inaccurate representation of what the regulation says. for example, europol is not allowed, and won’t be able, to enter alerts from the schengen information system on its own, and certainly not on persons who have no relation with any criminal activity. that is simply false. but let me stress that, once the regulation is in place, we will all have a different and a new role. there will obviously be a new role for europol – a new mandate, new responsibilities, new capabilities. there will be a new role for the commission, of course. some of the new duties brought back about the development and implementation of the europol regulations are, and will be, very important. there will be a new role for the edps in reinforced intervention in the activity of the agency. and there will be a new role for parliament and the instruments that we have placed in the hands of parliament to increase and strengthen democratic oversight. i think that if we all use the instruments that the new regulation places in our hands, europol will be better and all these doubts will simply disappear.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, just a quick few reactions to your proposals, ms von der leyen. i was very happy to hear about the rrf2, this recovery reconstruction fund using the lessons from what we learned for ukraine. that’s good news. there was no news on how to finance it, so i hope that’s coming. also, i think that spending on reconstruction is very good, but as you very well said, there are very urgent funding needs and we need to see how we’re going to address them. and thirdly, you mentioned the embargo on oil. this parliament is really happy to hear that, congratulations and that’s great news that we are moving on the oil embargo. but as you know, this is far short of what this parliament wants. we actually asked, a month ago, for a full embargo on gas and oil. while the debate goes on, the eu has sent eur 50 billion to russia since the start of the year, eur 52 billion today. and by the time we get all this oil embargo set, etc., putin will have received over eur 100 billion more in revenues. we are now in the worst of all worlds. consumers are paying higher prices, but these high prices are sufficiently high that putin gets higher revenues than before, more than compensated for the loss of volume. and some say nothing else can be done, and this is false. there is a clear solution which will collapse russian revenue, incentivise substitution, protect consumers and even, ms von der leyen, increase eu resources. what is this miracle? it is the oldest trick in the book: a tariff. a tariff on russian energy would allow us to shift some of the extra revenues from higher gas and oil prices to us, the consumers from the russian producers. with a tariff, the price that european consumers pay will go up a little bit. some consumers will continue consuming. some of them will stop. it depends on how much needs they have. but the gap between the price that the consumers pay and what the russians receive is actually the revenue from the tariff that would flow to the european taxpayers, the european union, and that could be given back to europeans to compensate for the higher gas prices. and the suppliers would be the ones facing the trouble, since a lower quantity is going to be supplied, it will be supplied at a lower price. don’t forget that russian oil and gas suppliers are desperately dependent on european purchases. between us and our allies, we purchase 80% of the oil and gas and they will be willing to supply at the lower price that the tariff will involve for them. why? first, the eu and us are buying 80% of their fossil fuel exports and the infrastructure bottlenecks make it very hard to shift those exports to asia. second, production costs are low at usd 20 a barrel, so they will actually have to accept those lower revenues rather than shutting down the wells. in short, a tariff would allow us to shift russian revenues to the european union consumers, all while accelerating an end to european dependency on moscow’s fuels. even if a high tariff comes with a cost for the european union, it is a more efficient way to stop putin than any of the other sanctions that we already have in place before the embargo comes in as fast as possible. let’s do it now. it must be a new tool in our armoury, enhancing our capacity to act.
the respected chairman! ukraine is and will remain part of europe. we have to realize that since the russian invasion of ukraine, europe has been living in the shadow of war, but unlike the ukrainians, we are safe, we are not being killed, we do not have to hide from missiles and run away from home, so it seems inappropriate to complain about inflation and the rising cost of living. giving up some of the comforts of life is the least we can do to help ukraine win the war and return europe to economic normality. no leading european or world financial institutions are currently forecasting an economic recession in the european union. even in the worst case scenario, inflation is expected to change by around 2%, compared with around 12% in the baltic states at present. the result is that the people of poorer nations are now bearing a far greater burden because of war than are the people of richer nations. the longer the war lasts, the more there will be casualties, refugees and economic hardship, and i therefore appeal to the governments of the european countries to act swiftly and decisively to hasten the end of the war. to win, ukraine needs to get enough heavy weapons as soon as possible and train its soldiers to use them, which is already happening. strengthen european union sanctions against russia, including a full oil, coal, nuclear fuel and gas embargo, and stop funding the kremlin's war machine. the war economy of ukraine must be helped by large financial injections. the international monetary fund estimates that about $5 billion will be needed each month for the next three months. we have to think about the future. the international community, institutions must create a financial fund for the reconstruction of the war-torn country and prepare ukraine for membership of the european union. every european must understand that ukraine cannot lose this war, because a russian victory would mean the downfall of europe.
mr president, my first message is to the ukrainian people: we are with you. from the pandemic to war, crises overlap and give no respite to europeans, our families, the self-employed, workers, smes, industry. the exorbitant energy prices have exposed our weaknesses in such a strategic sector as energy. we must stop these increases now by lowering vat and taxes on electricity and fuel. europe must reduce its energy dependence, diversify its sources of supply and strengthen interconnections such as the step gas pipeline and the midcat project between spain and the rest of europe. the war has also hit our agri-food market, for ukraine is the granary of europe. we must not take food supply and food security for granted. we need to open up to other markets to ensure that our cattle can be fed. we need a cap that is less restrictive and that guarantees quality food at reasonable prices. inflation, rising electricity bills and the increase in the cost of shopping are suffocating millions of europeans. you don't play with food. the european commission has today presented a package of good measures, but, for example, the european commission has not yet received the proposal from the spanish government to fix a maximum gas price on the iberian peninsula. a government that neither listens to the opposition nor carries out what it promises and abandons the spanish people. spain needs less government propaganda and more rigor. we, the people, are calling for lower taxes, for european funds to reach the real economy and create jobs, and for the spanish macro-government to reduce superfluous public spending. europe needs governments with presidents who put the interests of their citizens above their own.
madam president, madam minister, commissioner hahn, chairman lehne, 2020 was a difficult year for everyone, with a strong impact on the functioning of all european institutions. it was a year in which the union had to demonstrate its capacity to react and adapt, as well as to put on the table a historic political response, the next generation eu stimulus package. the institutions had to find ways of continuing to fulfil their mandate, adapting to a changing working environment and, at the same time, protecting their staff. i am pleased to be able to say, as rapporteur for the 2020 discharge for the other institutions, that the european institutions have fared well in this test, as well as playing a crucial role during the pandemic, such as the eeas with the repatriation of european citizens or the data protection supervisor with the evaluation of tracking applications, to give two simple examples. the reports we are voting on today highlight the measures taken to deal with the pandemic, which have allowed the institutions to continue their work, proposing innovative solutions and without sacrificing sound budgetary and administrative management and internal controls. they also identify a number of challenges and opportunities for the future of the union, such as the need to ensure the resilience of our institutions by reviewing continuity plans; to continue and improve the internal digitalisation process, which is essential for a modern, efficient and capable european public administration to function in all circumstances; and to remember the duty of care towards staff, which includes both physical and mental health and safety. we regret, however, that for various reasons the committee on budgetary control voted to postpone the discharge of three institutions: the council for another year - and this is now 12 years in a row - because of the lack of cooperation and the lack of consideration for this parliament; the economic and social committee, because some of the recommendations of parliament requested in previous years are still pending. although i am aware that important progress is being made, we need to verify that they are a reality, especially the agreements with the victims of the serious case of harassment of the former group 1 chairman and the review of the ethical framework that is under way. who watches the watchman in this case? trust, credibility and transparency are fundamental to the interinstitutional relationship between parliament and the court of auditors. the role of the institution as the auditor of the european budget is not in doubt. i want that to be very clear. but as ambassadors of the institution, the conduct of its members and the management of their own budget must be exemplary and blameless. is it an ethical example for the president of the european court of auditors to receive a settlement allowance in luxembourg and monthly residence allowances, while sharing and subletting a house to members of his own cabinet? is it an ethical example for members of the european court of auditors to use official cars for personal use in exchange for €100 a month or for missions to be used to attend party events, when impartiality and independence are presupposed? is it an example of transparency that the official missions of the members of the court are not kept publicly available on the website and that there is no attendance record to show how well they are fulfilling their mandate? perhaps to some people these may seem appropriate behaviours, but i am sure that they are not for european citizens. these behaviours have seriously damaged the image of the guardian of the financial interests of the european union and we must all help to restore it. but we can't look the other way as if nothing happened. we cannot allow the slightest question of the court to exist. that is why we have asked for clear rules linking sound financial management and the exemplary ethical behaviour of its members. something that goes beyond regularity or legality. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and his team, and the secretariat, for their work and support in reaching compromises which strengthen our defence of rigorous and impartial budgetary control. i am glad that, following the first draft report, a diligent and rapid process of modifying the court's internal rules was initiated, which lasted until yesterday, when we became aware of the latest reform. i welcome these new rules, which will solve many of the problems encountered in 2020 and contribute to improving the institution's reputation. but this shows that those patterns of behavior allowed in 2020 were not the right ones and needed to be modified. that is why i recommended that the discharge be postponed in the committee on budgetary control and that is why i recommend it again to be postponed now in the house. i remind you that we evaluate the 2020 management and, if we are consistent and fair, the court of auditors does not pass the evaluation. i know that there has been intense pressure on both groups and members to get us to approve the discharge. but at this point, everyone vote in conscience. but bear in mind that the image of parliament will be marked by the outcome of this vote.
madam president, this is the second year in a row that you have proposed to delay the approval of frontex's accounts. in this case, we are awaiting the final report of the european anti-fraud office, a report in several phases, which has already claimed the life of fabrice leggeri. while it is good news that he has finally resigned, it is essential to point out that frontex has a fundamental problem and that, beyond the resignations, it is necessary to clarify why, how and by whom an allegedly irregular use of public resources has been made. under leggeri's watch, the agency has increased its funding sixfold. and all this for what? well, for violating human rights. however, thanks to the commission's proposed pact of silence, we shall never know the details and the real extent. in order to ensure that respect for human rights is not an accounting problem and to prevent european money from being used to beat and kill human beings, a change in the eu's migration model is a priority.
the rapporteur. madam president, the letter sent yesterday by the court of auditors, with the latest changes to its code of conduct, told us that these reforms are proof of its commitment to a rigorous discharge process. i'm glad to know that we agree in the pursuit of that rigor that i have maintained from the beginning. i am also glad that the court has gradually adjusted its position on the draft initial report and the resolution adopted in the committee on budgetary control, has admitted the need for changes and has started work on the revision of the code of conduct so that the highest ethical standards are guaranteed. the court of auditors decided not to answer certain specific questions from certain alternative rapporteurs, and i referred them to it, but that is not the reason for not giving discharge. the reason is the information that they have given us. and the key is in ethics. you said it yourself, mr lehne: we must apply the same standard. that is what we are doing: our monitoring work for the sake of maintaining the credibility of the institutions. finally, mr kuhs, i would be ashamed to do the opposite. the difficult part was my position. the easy thing would have been to profile myself.
i am not aware of any banners and i don’t think that this is a room that can punish people who are guilty of something like that.
the next item is the vote.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, today we have the opportunity to finally put an end to the regulatory free fall that is pitting european companies that are subject to rigorous state aid control against competitors in the single market from third countries who are benefiting from distortive foreign subsidies. it is high time to close this regulatory gap once and for all. europe remains open for business, but we will no longer be naive. today we have just one amendment from the s&d, no 95, which would reduce the threshold for the notification-based instrument on public procurement even further. so this would go against the position adopted in the committee by unanimity and would go against the opinion-giving committee, imco, who had a shared competence on this article. and most of all, it would go against the interest of the regulation. it would instead be making the instrument more effective if we could reduce the red tape. this amendment would raise red tape and would make the instrument to become a regulatory paper tiger. this has to be avoided and we need the contrary i would say: a strong regulation that re—establishes fair competition, allows us to enforce the same rules for all players in our markets, and that will help us to give the impetus for the global fight against distortive foreign subsidies. the inta committee, as i said, endorsed it with unanimity, and i hope i can count on your support to start as well the negotiations with the council with a very strong mandate.
rapporteur. – madam president thank you and thank you to all the colleagues for the great support for this report. madam president, i would like to request referral back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to article 59(4).
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 2.49 p.m.)
the session is resumed. i see we have a point of order. you have the floor.
mr president, i would really like to make a point of order colleagues, an important point. we have just learned the horrible news that swedish-iranian academic dr ahmad reza djalali will be executed in iran on 21 may. this house repeatedly called on iranian authorities to hold the execution of djalali, to pardon and release him. this house has also proposed targeted sanctions of the iranian authorities if the iranian authorities did not free djalali. i really would call on you, mr president, and on the president of this house, to do all in her power to ensure that mr djalali will not be executed in a few weeks.
thank you very much. point taken. although it was not exactly a point of order according to the rules, but was anyhow very important. so we do take note of this.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted have been distributed. i see that there are no comments and therefore the minutes are approved.
we now move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the priority debate on the use of pegasus software by member states of the european union to spy on individuals, including members of the european parliament, and the consequent violation of fundamental rights (2022/2659 ((rsp)). i would remind our colleagues that there will be no 'catch the eye' procedure or 'blue card' questions in this debate. the seats are vacant except for the first two rows which are allocated to the heads of the political groups, according to the new rules. speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the central platform, except for spontaneous requests to speak, in this case for points of order only. let us now begin our debate. i would like to start by giving the floor to saskia bricmont.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first i would like to thank you for having included this item on the plenary agenda. it is indeed very topical. the commission has already had the opportunity to state on numerous occasions that we strongly condemn any illegal access to interpersonal communications. member states are competent to guarantee their national security, but when doing so they must apply relevant eu law, including the case law of the european court. in addition, member states must supervise and control their security services to ensure that they fully respect union law, including fundamental rights such as the protection of personal data, the safety of journalists and freedom of expression. in this respect, robust institutional checks, but maybe also international checks, and balances need to guarantee the functioning, cooperation and mutual control of state organs so that power is exercised by one state authority under the scrutiny of others. this is precisely the criterion that should apply to determine whether any illegal activity could be taking place, such as the illegal use of a spyware to access data of citizens. some governments may have themselves been subject to the illegal access to their communications. the investigation of such issues is the responsibility of each member state. indeed, the commission is not best placed here to investigate individual cases. the commission expects national authorities to thoroughly examine any such allegations and to restore citizens’ trust. i also wish to recall that the eu has a strong legal framework for data protection and privacy. the privacy and electronic communications, the so—called e—privacy directive, prohibits taping, recording, storing or other types of interception or monitoring of communications by other persons than the user. the adoption of a new e-privacy regulation will further strengthen the provisions of the e-privacy directive. moreover, the directive on attacks against information systems requires member states to ensure that illegal system access and illegal interception are punishable as a criminal offence, in their national criminal law. finally, any processing by public law enforcement authorities falls under the scope of the law enforcement directive and, in certain cases, the general data protection regulation may also apply. this framework must be fully respected, and supervisory authorities and national experts have an important role to play in this respect. the commission expects that they will make full use of all the powers. last, but not least, the charter of fundamental rights of the union and the european convention of human rights protect freedom of speech, in particular as regards journalists. the use of pegasus constitutes a very serious interference with freedom of speech. such an interference is only allowed if its duly justified and proportionate. for its part, the commission is collecting information on the use of pegasus. the commission is also following with great interest the activities of this parliament’s committee of inquiry on this issue. the discussions and presentations at its meeting on 19 april clearly show the importance of the issues in many member states. the commission is ready to contribute to the activities of this committee and looks forward to its conclusions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, when we had a similar debate here about two months ago, i predicted that we had not yet discovered the full depths of the pegasus spyware scandal and i think the revelations of recent weeks have certainly proven the point. it has also proven that it was a very good decision of this parliament to set up a committee of inquiry and get to the bottom of this, because that is exactly what we should do now: get to work and leave no stone unturned. i am happy to report that the committee started two weeks ago and that we will have a full and ambitious agenda for the next 11 and a half months, because we cannot over-emphasise the severity of the scandal when this kind of spyware is used against innocent citizens – whether they’re journalists, activists, lawyers, businessmen or politicians. and regardless of where in the european union, or even beyond, this happens, it’s first and foremost, of course, a horrible experience for the victims themselves, but it’s also a wider threat to the overall rule of law and democracy in europe. and this is why it’s so important that the parliament takes this very seriously. it’s also why i’m disappointed in the approach of the european commission – refusing to investigate pegasus spyware abuse in the member states, hiding behind national security arguments. because this scandal is not about using pegasus to prevent terrorism or serious crime, but about using it to spy on innocent citizens; and that is not national security, that is about the rule of law, and the european commission has a responsibility and it must take it. i mean, it was even reported that commissioner reynders was the target of such spyware himself. so unless the commission believes that mr reynders is a national security risk, i am sure that this is a common responsibility that we need to address together. in any case, this parliament will take its responsibility for fundamental rights, democracy and rule of law in the european union. we are at the very beginning of our work, so it’s too early to draw any concrete conclusions yet, but it’s certainly not the last you’ve heard of us.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, i would like to start by pointing out that, as so often, the council doesn’t seem to think that this debate is worth attending. this debate is an important political debate, but i would like to point out as well that the debate we are going to have 11 and a half months from now will be based on the inquiry. we hope to get all the facts on the table so that we can draw our conclusions and make recommendations based on actual facts and knowledge. first of all, we need to find out who is behind those hacks, who is using the spyware and for what purposes. those traces need to be found and that is extremely important because, as has been pointed out by my colleagues, this is not just about individual victims whose privacy has been violated in the most horrifying way, this is about attacking the integrity of the decision—making processes in the member states and in europe. that brings me to the hacks, or the attempted hacks, of the european commission. i’m a bit shocked at the reaction of the european commission, saying: ‘oh, you know, it didn’t even succeed’. there was even a commissioner saying: ‘oh, ha ha, i have a very boring life, there’s nothing on my phone.’ i can’t believe what i hear. i would like to point out, mr commissioner, that investigating this matter is not optional. this is not about individual problems. this is about the accountability of the european commission to the european citizens and to the european parliament. you have a duty to investigate and to find out who else has been targeted in the european commission. here, the fact that the hacks may not have succeeded is irrelevant, mr commissioner, because, if it turns out that the suspicion is true, that it is member state governments trying to hack the phones of commissioners and officials, then we have the biggest scandal since watergate on this continent. because that means that member state governments are trying to influence the commission and the decision—making process. i will not pre-empt the conclusions and the work of the inquiry committee, but i think there are a couple of things that we will be looking into specifically. one is what legal framework is there for this kind of surveillance, this kind of spying in the member states, and how can people be protected against it? we will of course also look at the eprivacy regulation. then, i think we urgently – and i’ve had this debate with the commission many times over the last years – need a definition of national security because, if national security becomes a kind of space where everything is possible and there are no protections anymore, then we need a definition of what that space is. it needs to be demarcated. we need a blacklisting of companies – like the americans have done – selling this kind of spyware in the european union. finally, i think we should have a serious look at the cyber-security of our own institutions. after the conclusions of the prism investigation eight years ago, we finally need to get going with the cyber-security of our own house.
thank you very much, i’d like to let you know that the council has informed us that they will join us later on and will still intervene in this debate.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, democracies, when they are not taken care of, degenerate. there is a fine line between a sound democracy, which guarantees rights and freedoms at all times, and a democracy which in certain cases violates rights and freedoms. every time this line is crossed and no action is taken, every time the other side is looked at, the governments that shelter these violations feel more impunity to continue to erode the foundations of democracy. commissioner, in the european union we have governments that like to play at being spies, but even worse, they like to practice political espionage. and some fanatics of the reason of the state, circumstantial democrats, dare even to justify it. i was one of the 65 catalan independence fighters who were victims of pegasus. we've most likely been spied on by the spanish secret services. i have some questions for the political leaders of my spy ring. who gave the order to violate my right to privacy and that of my family? was there a warrant? if there was no such thing, we are faced with a flagrant crime. and if there was, how could a judge have authorized such massive spying and violation of so many rights? where's the data that was stolen from me? what have they been used for? how much public money have you squandered on my spying? this week we learned that president sánchez and defense minister robles claim that they too have been victims of pegasus, although we also know that they knew this for a long time. have you chosen this moment to send the message that there is no point in our business, because in the end we are many victims of pegasus and here everyone is spying? do you want to normalize or dilute our case, the catalangate scandal? we must not tolerate political espionage in the european union. there are no first-class spies and second-class spies. no government spy is less bad than another. commissioner, you must demand explanations from all governments that have illegally used pegasus. and it's up to us, all of us, to demand transparency and accountability and to legislate so that this never happens again.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation by the european parliament of a committee of inquiry into the pegasus scandal is good news. it is true that this spyware issue is primarily a matter for the member states, since national politicians have been victims of it, such as the spanish prime minister or even, even if he denies it, the president of the french republic, emmanuel macron. several of these states have already set up their own committees of inquiry. but the european union is also concerned, since several meps and the justice commissioner, didier reynders, are among the personalities spied on. in addition, the large number of citizens of all eu nationalities who are spied on via their smartphones justifies the european parliament joining forces with the member states. our committee of inquiry will therefore have to clarify a number of points. first, it will have to determine the extent of the espionage carried out, identifying its victims as precisely as possible. secondly, it will have to expose the states or organizations that have been the sponsors of this espionage. i will ensure, as a member of this committee, that no accusation is published in the final report without sufficient evidence. finally, we must draw the consequences of this case by proposing solutions to prevent such serious espionage from happening again as much as possible. i am pleased that the first meeting of the committee of inquiry on 19 april was instructive. the experts who have been interviewed have already given me a lot and the programme of investigation we have agreed promises to be exciting. i will therefore take part in this inquiry with confidence and determination, which i believe is of vital importance for the future of our european democracies.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i’m very happy that you care about freedom of speech and freedom of the press. i’m very happy that you mentioned pegasus and many other tools which were used by the governments of the member states. let’s start with germany. i was just wondering, where you have been, dear hypocrites, when a huge scandal was announced by the media in 2009 in germany? in a report we can read ‘the state spyware finfisher or finspy is developed in munich and sold to police and secret services in dozens of countries, including the german federal police.’ where have you been, hypocrites? where have you been in 2019? where have you been when donald tusk was prime minister in poland and 38 journalists were under surveillance? maybe mr halicki would answer. where have you been? where have you been, hypocrites? you know the names. you know the names. you know the journalists who were under this surveillance. everyone knows that. but now you’re pointing to poland and hungary. so what about germany? what about france? what about canada? you care about abortion in the usa, why don’t you care about canada and mr trudeau? so don’t be a hypocrite. if you want to solve the problem, do not be a hypocrite. do not point to poland and hungary – point to everyone. because who was in charge of the german government? madame merkel. you were shaking in front of merkel. everyone was silent. no one ever asked anything. so with the scandal in september 2019 – it’s silence. we’ve got eight years of mr tusk in poland, 38 journalists under surveillance – silence. where have you been hypocrites? what do you have to hide? why are you so scared of legal surveillance, legal democratic governments who are using the tools to protect themselves. where have you been? where have you been? what do you have to hide? what are you scared of?
thank you very much. no blue—cards are allowed. i would like to say that this language and insults are not proper arguments in a discussion in this chamber.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a state of law, nothing, absolutely nothing, justifies surveillance by means of pegasus and similar spyware on elected politicians, journalists and activists. the european institutions must investigate which governments have violated european law and fundamental rights by illegally spying on political opponents. it is important to stress that we are dealing with a matter of european scope. it is proven that hungary and poland have used pegasus, and we now know that the intelligence services of the spanish state have also used pegasus to intercept the communications of dozens of catalan and basque politicians, including the secretary general of my party. let us not forget that pegasus is only within the reach of the states. it is particularly serious that a member state such as spain illegitimately spies on elected political officers, including members of this parliament, violating their privacy and the right to exercise their mandate without external pressure, as provided for in the statute for members of the european parliament. this parliament has set up a committee on pegasus. we need to examine the industry behind the spy software, because pegasus is just the tip of the iceberg. our group has been advocating a general ban on mass surveillance technologies for some time and the european parliament must take the initiative to ban illegal spyware such as pegasus and to ensure that member states who use it face consequences for doing so.
mr. speaker, jamal khashoggi's wife's phone was infected with pegasus four days before he was killed. the lab that certified khashoggi's spying, citizen lab, has just revealed the spying on more than 60 people in catalonia, mostly elected politicians, lawyers and journalists, and calls it the largest documented case of spying known to date: catalangate. pegasus is used unchecked by authoritarian regimes and also by democracies to spy on journalists, lawyers, policymakers, and ordinary citizens. the threat, therefore, is very serious. the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union are in danger and europe cannot understand itself without them. without them there can be no democracy in europe. pegasus and democracies are not exactly compatible.
mr president, in spain some pro-independence politicians have struck a blow against a european democracy, the spanish democracy. some were convicted of sedition and embezzlement and others are fugitives from justice, like the deputy who preceded me, from whom i will not accept a single lesson in legality because he is a fugitive from justice. they have all found in this debate their opportunity for victimization and, of course, another political offensive against the state. the least that can be expected of the intelligence services of a country, always under judicial protection, is that they investigate those who promise to repeat crimes against democracy and the rule of law. if the state is attacked, the state must defend itself.
please colleague, can i ask you to stick to the theme of this debate.
the report on which catalan political independence is based should first of all be investigated as to whether it is a coincidence that a person is being investigated for promoting violence in the streets of barcelona and promoting the assault on the airport. the publication of this report also comes the day before the pegasus commission is set up here in parliament. it is too much coincidence for those who want to destabilize democracies and base everything on their fraudulent victimhood. this is something a government can never accept: neither blackmail nor yielding for fear of losing power. because you can't negotiate the government of a nation with someone who wants to destroy it. the spanish socialist government should not keep them as partners or share state secrets with them. sanchez can't put the wolf in charge of the sheep. it is the responsibility of the state to defend spain and its security and to demand that its president give an explanation to the spanish people and to the european union as a whole when he and his government are not up to the task.
mr president, i was spied on by pegasus while i was a member of the european parliament. so, all of you in this room are also collateral victims of this spying. my political rights, your political rights, have been violated, and the integrity and independence of this house have been compromised. my case is not unique, of course. hundreds of journalists, activists and politicians, including colleagues in this parliament, have also been victims. we now know that the spanish prime minister and the minister for defence have also allegedly been arrested. in the spanish case, when the spies were sixty-five independence fighters, the response of the executive was nil. they even went so far as to insinuate that we deserved to be spied on because, of course, we are independence fighters. we won't say the same. no one should suffer from mass and illegal spying. it is a matter of democratic principles. if it is true that members of the spanish government are victims of pegasus, let us hope that they will now act at once. the spanish government is solely and ultimately responsible for clearing up this scandal. he has already admitted that he acquired pegasus and therefore, given the gravity of the situation, the spanish government has no alternative but to report on who is using it in the state, how it is being used, against whom and what is being done with all this stolen information. if the executive were involved in this scandal, the situation would be very serious. but if it does not, the situation would be even more serious, because this would mean that there are reactionary sectors that are still anchored in pre-democratic dynamics, that have their own political agenda. and you know what? the biggest opposition, the biggest resistance to the authoritarian dynamics in spain is the independence movement. that's why we're imprisoned, ruined financially and now spied on. i would like to appeal to the european institutions to stand by those who are fighting for democracy, transparency and fundamental rights, not only in poland and hungary but throughout spain.
thank you very much. for sure we take note of the fact that the council is now with us, and we welcome you. i will now give the floor to idoia villanueva ruiz for one minute.
mr president, various investigations reveal pegasus spying on activists, journalists, lawyers, national deputies and members of this house. we recall that it can only be bought and used by states to spy on other states or to spy on their own citizens. and it not only spies on conversations, but it has control of the device (documents, camera activation, microphone, at any time, so it can record). therefore, not only the people involved are being spied on but also anyone who has had contact with those people, extending this violation of fundamental rights to a large part of the population and to the houses in which popular sovereignty is expressed. in spain, more than 65 people from the catalan and basque independence movements, journalists, lawyers, mps have been revealed to have been spied on, and the list of names keeps growing and becoming recognised within the institutions. we welcome the fact that this inquiry is being opened in the european parliament. we should all, as we do here, support the various research projects in our member states. pegasus is being used against democracy, against the rights of everyone. and europe and democracy must defend themselves. the rights of its citizens must be defended, investigated, accountability demanded and guarantees of non-repetition generated.
mr. president, the question is not whether or not pegasus spying is legal. if it's not legal, should those responsible for this crime be convicted? will someone have to take political responsibility? and if spain does not have the capacity to identify criminals, then it is not a reliable rule of law. the right question is: if our spying is part of a democratic regime. i was spied on in the days leading up to the great gathering in perpignan of the catalan government in exile in january 2020, where i was leading the organization of this gathering. if a spanish judge authorized my spying in those days, it means that he considered that my actions could constitute possible criminal offences. at the same time i was engaged in negotiations with the french police to ensure the safety of the concentration. at that time, for france, this concentration was an exercise of the right to demonstrate, but for the spanish state it was an alleged crime. that is the difference between a democratic state and one that is not. my case illustrates this difference perfectly. i do not want to leave without asking a final question to the members of the ppe, the pse and ciudadanos: why do you support the creation of a committee of inquiry into pegasus in the european parliament and why did you vote against such a committee in the spanish congress yesterday? to make a good impression on our european colleagues, but to deny transparency when they're not looking. is that it?
mr president, technology is never essentially good or essentially bad. it all depends on the purpose of its use and who employs it. nuclear technology, with a missile, can be used to cause the greatest destruction ever conceived by mankind, but also to eliminate cancers and save lives through nuclear medicine. the same goes for pegasus. cyber surveillance tools are critical to protecting our security forces and for them to protect us. this type of software has been used to thwart jihadist attacks, dismantle mafia networks and curb drug trafficking in many european countries. but when governments deviate from the legitimate use of this technology, violate the rule of law and use it outside the law, they deserve our utmost revulsion. it is not like what some people have just said is happening in spain. in spain, the rule of law is upheld to the fullest extent. the use of technologies is therefore strictly carried out in accordance with the law and under judicial supervision. we spaniards have every reason to be proud of our democracy and of the work of our security forces and bodies, as well as our intelligence services. it should therefore not surprise anyone that some interviews have been possible with people convicted of sedition, people who have repeatedly said they would commit these crimes again and people who have even gone so far as to say that achieving a hypothetical independence is worth human lives. but, despite this, today the catalan secessionists are trying to set up their usual media and propaganda theatre. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and the commission has been asked to take a decision on the matter. they try to hide it, but fortunately, their theatres no longer fool anyone.
mr president, the use of pegasus is an unprecedented scandal: a private company backed by the israeli regime is marketing with impunity a weapon of mass destruction of democracy, a weapon of mass destruction of political trust. in my country even the telephone of the prime minister has been tapped. and then there are other political leaders, social leaders, journalists, lawyers. and it is not that we do not feel the fragility of any system: it is that in the face of these facts which change the rules of democracy, how will any european citizen feel protected? what is clear from this is that, in the end, whoever has enough money and power can skip over fundamental rights. and how do we protect ourselves? first, enough with the secrets. we need transparency and to broaden the base of democracy. responsibilities must be clarified and decisions taken in this regard: diplomatic, political and legal.
mr president, there are no spies of the first or second kind, what is on the table are very serious accusations affecting fundamental rights, affecting the very health of the rule of law throughout europe. so we need explanations and we need evidence - very transparent explanations and conclusive evidence - of who has actually been spied on, how they have been spied on, when they have been spied on and who is behind that spying. we also need explanations from governments, we need explanations from the company itself, because we are taking for granted what the company says as a revealed truth, that they are only sold to states. well, that's something we're gonna have to figure out, too. and what's very important is that we don't jump to conclusions. this debate is certainly timeless in this respect. we have formed a special commission to find out the truth. this committee will have 12 months to do so. what i think is that we must not give in to the temptation to capitalise on our local affairs issues that affect the backbone of democracy in europe. so, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have to be patient, do our job and take advantage of this special commission we have in order to find out the truth.
mr. president, i thought we were going to talk about security, but i see that's not the case. i'm not here to entertain you with games of espionage between politicians who spend their lives poking around in the lives of citizens. the most outrageous thing is to see separatists, coup plotters and convicted members of terrorist gangs come here to say, without evidence, that they have been spied on. but they have spent their lives spying on children and teachers in schools, businessmen and workers; kidnapping, coercing and killing spaniards! they have seldom spied on them and seldom pursued them. europeans are tired of seeing you fail to get through one crisis after another. debt crisis, migration crisis, brexit, energy crisis, inflation, more unemployment, more debt, and now pegasus. this is the first time that the european union has been involved in a major crisis. it's exhausting and all because of a mixture of sectarianism and weakness that makes us hostage to any threat. do you want a stronger and safer europe? the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not a mere political machine. security at the borders against illegal assault; on the streets against mass violations; security for companies, so that no worker has to lose his job because his company goes abroad drowned by climate fanaticism; and also energy and food security, so that goods produced in third countries do not enter semi-slavery regimes. let us devote ourselves to that security and the rest will come to us in addition.
mr president, it is paradoxical that catalan separatist politicians, who abrogated the constitution in catalonia by staging a coup d'état against democracy, should denounce the rule of law without any evidence. it is paradoxical that those who were accused of spying and following catalan politicians, journalists and constitutional activists now denounce alleged espionage, without evidence. it is paradoxical that those who prevented the creation of a committee of inquiry in the catalan parliament to investigate allegations of spying are now using this house and a committee of inquiry for their propaganda campaign, without any evidence. and it is paradoxical that whoever stole seven million data of the catalans is amazed that they get into theirs, without proof. but well, it's not paradoxical, because the catalan separatists are experts in propaganda and lying and in defending their rights while violating everyone else's. in any rule of law, the burden of proof is on the accusation, but the catalan separatists accuse without proof, using and abusing this parliament, not to know the truth, but to spread lies. we must therefore prevent those who are accused of being putin's trojan horse in europe, catalan separatism, from using the pegasus scandal as a trojan horse to overthrow the democratic rule of law by using this parliament.
mr president, commissioner, political questions - and a conflict over sovereignty is a political conflict - are resolved by politics. when instead of opening a debate, recognizing the other, negotiating and seeking agreements, one opts for the "for them" approach, for espionage, for "control of the courts through the back door", for the abolition of parliamentary inviolability, for the imprisonment of ideas, when political police brigades are created whose chief says in congress that between the law and spain, choose spain, when much more than the far right applauds this behavior and no prosecutor has to act, these things happen. we've reported him here many times over the years. and today we pray the prayer of martin niemöller, because behind every illegal spying in every state there is a "for them". we need a thorough investigation with results in all the states involved. we ask the commission to be more principled and less self-interested in defending democracy, but we also want dialogue, peace and freedom of speech, democracy and more democracy. because this is the best antidote to shame and to this scandal.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's an old principle that something that can be used for defense and for good can also be misused for attack or for evil. and that's exactly what happened with pegasus. we need tools like pegasus to fight organized crime, to fight terrorism, to fight outside attacks. and the crime is all the greater when such an instrument is then misused to attack people in parliamentary and journalistic circles, to attack people in civil society, and indeed to attack people in the business world. and no one should ever assume that they or they themselves could not be affected, because to misuse such instruments is to bring division into our society, to restrict freedoms, and that is exactly what we must not allow. that's why it's important that there's this pegasus investigation committee. and the committee of inquiry will not only investigate and produce a very clear report - that is for sure. but the committee of inquiry must ensure that those who abuse such a tool - and i repeat, this is a crime as such already - that those who have done this, who are doing this, who may still do this, do not feel safe, because something that can be broken technologically can also be traced technologically at some point. and let all those who imagine that they can commit the crime of abusing pegasus quickly know this. we won't let that happen. and the committee of inquiry will also make clear recommendations on how these instruments, which are important because they are also used to attack europe, can be used correctly and correctly, in accordance with the rule of law and in a democratic manner, to defend europe. this is gonna be important. i am glad that our commissioner, johannes hahn, said in his introduction that the commission is looking forward to what the committee of inquiry will bring, and that it will be of substantial value.
mr. president, the recent revelations about pegasus are shocking. and the simple fact that we have to have our phones monitored here is actually kind of scary. yes, the spanish government has confirmed that prime minister sanchez is being bugged. in hungary, journalists and activists and students were targeted, in poland, opposition members are being bugged. even citizens are being victimized on a large scale in europe, and free elections are being damaged by pegasus. let me be clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. democracy cannot function if governments know everything about their policy makers, opponents and voters. that's more than an unwanted invasion of your privacy, of your secrets, of your intimacy. it's not allowed. the new pega committee of inquiry, here in the european parliament, clearly calls on the european commission to act effectively and to defend the fundamental rights of europeans. first, by collecting information on the extent to which member states are illegally monitoring people. transparency is essential to ensure that the governments of the european member states that use pegasus spyware illegally are also held to account.
mr president, yesterday was world press freedom day. in this parliament, we reinstated again that democracies can only exist when critical media can do their jobs – scrutinise all of us without pressure, without any limitation. and one day later, we are discussing european governments using spyware on the phones of journalists. imagine investigating the people in power and finding out that your phone is infected by spyware. it’s invasive. it gets in your head. are your sources safe? does this have consequences for your friends and family? wouldn’t it be wiser to start writing about a less controversial topic? this is happening in the eu and not only to the press, but also to activists, lawyers, academics and politicians, to members of this house. let’s make sure that the pegasus committee, our inquiry, will serve its purpose to protect and defend our people and our democracies.
mr president, this is such an important debate and the subject is so serious that we must be careful not to allow in travellers without tickets, free riders, those who want to appropriate the concern of this house to turn it into a sounding board for their victimhood. these unticketed travellers, these pegasus free riders, like to present themselves as persecuted exiles, when in reality they are simply fugitives from justice, or they want to pass themselves off as defenders of the rule of law, when in reality they have been the protagonists of the most flagrant and unusual breach of the supreme expression of the rule of law, which is the constitution. even some parties which are now giving us lessons played a leading role, for example in my own country, the basque country, in some famous cases of political espionage, which were actually proved before the courts in other times. i will always maintain that a fundamental right, and of course the fundamental right of those travellers without a ticket, can only be affected in clearly defined circumstances for well-founded reasons and with the guarantee of an independent judge. and i have no reason to assume that the law establishing these guarantees has been violated in the case of spain. so we must distinguish between dissidents and refugees. we must distinguish between those who legitimately wish, claim, ask for the independence of a territory and those who in the name of independence organize, participate and lead seditious processes. the victims of arbitrariness and legality must be distinguished from those who may be the object of legal action by a democratic state when the state legitimately defends itself.
in writing. pegasus spying has compromised fundamental rights. we urge the european parliament to obtain information to know the victims of the spyware, its use and who is behind this incident. we demand these explanations from european governments and the company developing the spyware nso group, we question the information coming from the nso group, particularly in the statements that assume that due to its high cost it is only accessible to governments. the spanish socialists have stressed the importance of giving the pegasus commission room for manoeuvre, avoiding the use of the issue to capitalise on local issues. the use of spyware compromises the european idea of democracy, its values and its rights. the pegasus commission will aim to develop european legislation that strengthens the rights of europeans, the confidentiality of communications, the right to privacy and the secrecy of communications with the guarantee of judicial authorisation. the use of pegasus spyware may be incompatible with the european standard of fundamental rights enshrined in article 8 of the european charter, and cybersecurity and counter-espionage measures must be strengthened if the strategic autonomy of the eu's foreign security and defence policy is to be credible.
in writing. pegasus spying has compromised fundamental rights. we urge the european parliament to obtain information to know the victims of the spyware, its use and who is behind this incident. we demand these explanations from european governments and the company developing the spyware nso group, we question the information coming from the nso group, particularly in the statements that assume that due to its high cost it is only accessible to governments. the spanish socialists have stressed the importance of giving the pegasus commission room for manoeuvre, avoiding the use of the issue to capitalise on local issues. the use of spyware compromises the european idea of democracy, its values and its rights. the pegasus commission will aim to develop european legislation that strengthens the rights of europeans, the confidentiality of communications, the right to privacy and the secrecy of communications with the guarantee of judicial authorisation. the use of pegasus spyware may be incompatible with the european standard of fundamental rights enshrined in article 8 of the european charter, and cybersecurity and counter-espionage measures must be strengthened if the strategic autonomy of the eu's foreign security and defence policy is to be credible.
in writing. pegasus spying has compromised fundamental rights. we urge the european parliament to obtain information to know the victims of the spyware, its use and who is behind this incident. we demand these explanations from european governments and the company developing the spyware nso group, we question the information coming from the nso group, particularly in the statements that assume that due to its high cost it is only accessible to governments. the spanish socialists have stressed the importance of giving the pegasus commission room for manoeuvre, avoiding the use of the issue to capitalise on local issues. the use of spyware compromises the european idea of democracy, its values and its rights. the pegasus commission will aim to develop european legislation that strengthens the rights of europeans, the confidentiality of communications, the right to privacy and the secrecy of communications with the guarantee of judicial authorisation. the use of pegasus spyware may be incompatible with the european standard of fundamental rights enshrined in article 8 of the european charter, and cybersecurity and counter-espionage measures must be strengthened if the strategic autonomy of the eu's foreign security and defence policy is to be credible.
author. mr president, the kavala trial has resulted in the most serious sentence possible, aggravated life imprisonment, for a person who until a few years ago was a philanthropist virtually unknown to public opinion. a process that has also dragged seven other innocent citizens into the same wave of blind revenge. the turkish authorities were fully aware of the political consequences of their resistance to the release of kavala by order of a court of justice which is part of the turkish judicial system by decision of turkey itself, the european court of human rights of the council of europe. when a political system, when a whole political system culminates in one person, in a summit without balances and counterweights, in the end everything can be reduced to prejudices or personal mania, but that pollutes the entire state and its international image. it is the present turkish government which has deliberately decided to blow up any prospect of resuming the accession process. it was not this parliament, nor the commission, nor the council, nor the member states. the current turkish government has closed that door to itself, a door which cannot be opened with this turkey. there are many aspects of the relationship in which we can continue to work with turkey, but certainly not in the accession process. what is not worthwhile is to use the role of mediation in the war as an alibi to accelerate the domestic authoritarian process. not, at least, waiting for the silence of this parliament. and i hope that the silence of the commission and the council will not be enough. free kavala and reverse the current destructive trend of a not so distant nascent democracy in turkey.
author. mr. president, kavala's life sentence without evidence shows how the judicial system in turkey has been destroyed and politicized, and how people critical of the government are attacked, harassed and prosecuted. another good example of this is the case of demirtaş, who has been imprisoned for years, or how the hdp faces an impending illegalization that aims to leave millions of people without representation. the european union cannot look the other way any longer. clear and decisive action is needed, such as making any improvement in the eu's official relations with turkey conditional on its obligations to respect human rights and the rule of law and demanding that the judgments of the european court of human rights be implemented, by releasing kavala, demirtaş and the hundreds of political prisoners currently imprisoned in turkey. violation of human rights must have a political and economic cost, and this must be made very clear.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can already see what mr erdoğan has achieved with this absurd persecution of osman kavala: that we are all practically in agreement, that there are no disagreements here in relation to the persecution of osman kavala and his entourage. the persecution and the obsession that the erdoğan regime is showing in persecuting kavala has really become an international scandal that is hurting him and hurting the regime very much. we must now try to find ways of at least bringing our positions closer together, even though we are aware of the catastrophic human rights situation in turkey and of the thousands of political prisoners in turkey, political prisoners and prisoners of conscience, in dramatic situations, much more dramatic than those in kavala. but kavala is a scandal with that acquittal, with the arrest of the judges who acquitted him, with the new arrest, with the sentence, finally, to an absurd, ridiculous, grotesque life sentence. that's the term, perhaps, we should use. in that sense, mr. erdoğan has to know that this obsession is going to haunt him and is doing him immense harm. let him rethink and let's really get back to some civilized terms. for that, the best sign is for you to release osman kavala.
author. madam president, for a person to have parts of his own body removed against his will is one of the worst human rights violations we can imagine. but let's be serious; there's no evidence that this is happening in china. what we do know is that the chinese government has invited un high commissioner bachelet to see if there is any truth to this allegation. what there is evidence of, for example, is the forced organ harvesting from palestinian prisoners by israel. but this regime does not allow the entry of the united nations to document these facts reported since 2015. why do we focus on something for which there is no evidence while silencing something for which there is evidence? here's my take: the us national security directive singles out china and russia as systemic enemies. and here we are again, in the european parliament, taking up the agenda imposed on us by the united states.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, we are unfortunately returning today to a terribly, horribly and inhumanly appalling issue: the forced removal of organs from prisoners and other oppressed people. this, in the people's republic of china. it is a monstrosity that has been practised for decades, that has not stopped being practised and that now, with the regime of xi jinping, is being carried out with a massive aggravation of all repressive measures and we believe that it may be on the rise again. doctors against forced organ harvesting have denounced at their recent congress that this is so, that this practice is on the increase. however, we in our resolution do no more than ask china to do so. we're asking china for favors. without some sort of mechanism to deal with china, both in terms of doctors and their health structures, we're not going to make any headway on this terrible, terrible issue.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, we are discussing today the threats to stability and security in the sahel and the sahara, and this is not just another debate. not only because russia's invasion of ukraine reminds us that unless we act proactively and decisively and with agreements in dealing with conflicts, they will end in barbarism, but also because the european union can no longer rely on a concept of militarized security and on a false stability that hides conflicts and interests. to build joint security, to put an end to violence in the area and to avoid its consequences, we must be committed to security based on the economic, political and social rights of the people, on a non-extractive economy and at the service of the people, and on a privileged relationship with the women's, social and trade union movements, which underpin the social and democratic basis. and what can we do immediately? first, to recognize the legacies of the colonial powers and to act in accordance with international law so that the saharawi people can exercise their right to self-determination now. secondly, to end the spiral of arms sales by strictly complying with european legislation and to address the responsibilities of some member states which have directly contributed to the escalation of conflicts, as in mali. third, to bet on the rights to mobility of migrants and refugees; also, on the climate emergency in the area. and fourthly, to take a further step towards ensuring that the human rights which the states must respect are also strictly respected by european companies.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the european left says loud and clear: all our solidarity is with the suffering peoples. more than two months after it began, the russian invasion of ukraine is now leading to the loss of thousands of lives, more than ten million displaced people, mainly women and children, the systematic destruction of vital infrastructure and skyrocketing food and energy prices worldwide. today it is moldova that fears a russian invasion and that this will escalate into the decades-old conflict in transnistria. a country which has taken in a large number of refugees from ukraine today feels the threat of this escalation very closely. and what is the european union going to do? to continue to encourage the warmongering, saying that this war will be won on the battlefield, while those who fight and lose lives every day are others? we must urge in the strongest terms for a ceasefire, for russia to stop its invasion of ukraine and any threats to moldova. and we must put all our resources and capabilities into looking after every open negotiation channel and pushing forward and adding to open diplomatic channels, like the united nations. we must also promote the work to resolve frozen conflicts such as that in transnistria by implementing solutions through dialogue and agreement between the parties to the conflict, also with the mediation of russia, ukraine, the united states, the osce and the european union itself. we must do this for the people of moldova, to stop the disaster in ukraine, to prevent another disaster and another european economic crisis and for the right to a future with a just and peaceful international system.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, two hundred thousand comfort women were turned into sex slaves by the japanese army before and during the second world war. many were killed, others committed suicide, and the survivors were stigmatized. in the former yugoslavia systematic rape and forced pregnancies were used as a form of ethnic cleansing. the genocide against the yazidi community at the hands of the self-styled islamic state resulted in thousands of women and girls being kidnapped, enslaved, tortured, raped and murdered. in nigeria, abduction of school-age girls by armed groups, premature marriages, and early pregnancies are common. rape, sexual slavery, mutilation and other forms of torture are the currency of the armed conflict in ethiopia's western tigray. yemen, syria, afghanistan, in all the conflicts of war, women's bodies are a battlefield, and ukraine is not and will not be an exception. there too, women and girls are spoils of war and rape is a strategy of terror and torture that will leave indelible traces. those fleeing ukraine, 90% of whom are women and children, face similar risks in transit and destination areas, some of which do not respect sexual and reproductive rights. displaced women are also particularly vulnerable, because in most cases they sustain and care for those who are more vulnerable than themselves. today we have time to stop the relentless wheel of history. let's get some reception resources going. we offer study and employment opportunities to those seeking refuge. let us work with girls who are less likely to access education and are exposed to sexual violence, human trafficking and trafficking. we provide women with reporting mechanisms when they are subject to violence, good physical, psychological, sexual and reproductive health services, emergency contraceptive methods and adequate care in case of abortion. let us take care of the victims and let us not forget the perpetrators, because the sexual crimes that have been committed in ukraine are war crimes and possible crimes against humanity, and as such they must be prosecuted and punished.
madam president, commissioner, in ukraine we are once again faced with a devastating reality: war has always had a woman's face. girls and women in war situations are objectified, blatantly exploited and almost always systematically left out of decision-making. this violence, which disproportionately affects women and girls, is exacerbated when different forms of discrimination are combined. being a roma woman, stateless, disabled, migrant, racialized or from the lgbtiq+ group sharpens this vulnerability. we see this with particular concern in the case of transgender women, for whom the recognition of their identity may mark, among other things, the possibility or not of fleeing the war. that is why we are not content to ask for a humanitarian response in general terms. in this crisis, the european union must respond to the specific needs of women and girls, for example by ensuring the availability of support services on gender-based violence and access to all sexual and reproductive health services, including emergency contraception and abortion. but above all, our response must start from the conviction that women are not only witnesses and victims or weapons of war and spoils. women in ukraine are fighters and caregivers, leaders of their communities and providers. just a few days ago, they were teachers, journalists, civil servants. that is why we are claiming the preeminence of its role, but above all its capacity as an agent of change. without the voices of women there will be no peace and no reconstruction possible.
madam president, madam commissioner, the consequences of war are terrible and disproportionately affect women, girls and children, who also, again, make up the majority of those who have left ukraine. we must ensure their attention and integration into our social, health and education systems and make available the necessary funds to do so with dignity. in particular, the european union must protect these women and girls from the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war and ensure that women have access to sexual and reproductive health services, including legal and safe abortion care. europe must also take part in the collection of evidence against the atrocities of the war, including rape, which should not be prescribed, and open its eyes to the barbarity of surrogacy and not allow the commodification and dehumanization of going to ukraine to collect purchased babies and leaving pregnant women, who are not even named as mothers, to their fate. in short, we must guarantee the rights of women and girls now, and in the months to come, because we cannot forget that we are facing an anti-gender agenda that, on a global scale, does not respect our rights, especially sexual and reproductive rights.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, we have come to ask for a statement from the commission on the attack on palestinian journalists by the israeli occupation forces, in particular the case of shireen abu akleh. the israeli regime kills palestinians almost every day: in the last year, more than 300 people have been killed, two of them journalists; in addition, there is also a journalist in prison. the israeli regime, however, enjoys a privileged relationship with this union, with the european union, a privileged relationship which is helping it to perpetuate an occupation which has lasted for many decades. we believe that this matter must be discussed here and that we must take a stand on it, because otherwise it could appear that the european union and this european parliament are dead first and dead second. i think this debate is unplayable. we therefore ask that this matter be discussed. we know there's another proposal on the same subject. the important thing for us is that the debate should take place and we are therefore prepared to unite both proposals.
on behalf of the left group. mr. president, on wednesday morning, may 11, at 6:13 am, the al-jazeera newsroom in ramallah received the following email: the occupation forces are storming yenin and surrounding a house in the yabriyat neighborhood. i'm on my way, i'll bring you the news as soon as i gather clear data it was signed by shireen abu akleh, a veteran and renowned journalist. when she got to her job, she was cornered by israeli sniper fire. she got out of the car in a fully-identified press vest and helmet, and was shot near the ear, just where the helmet stopped covering her. it was an extremely accurate shot. fifty palestinian journalists have been killed by israel since 2000. it's not a coincidence. it is a response to the attempt to silence the fact that in the last year alone more than 300 civilians have been killed by the israeli occupation forces. israel does not want witnesses to the system of apartheid and ethnic cleansing it imposes on palestine. israel cannot continue to participate in european projects, programmes or agreements, nor can it continue to receive funds, as long as it continues to violate international law and the human rights of the palestinian people. we cannot be complicit in the murder of this journalist, or the forcible transfer of populations, or the mass detention of children, or the expansion of illegal settlements. parliament is now accepting this debate and i thank all the groups who have supported it and made it possible. but now it is time for the union to move from words to deeds.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pleasure to be back with you to discuss your parliament's report on the commission's report on the rule of law, the second edition of which was adopted in july last year. the commission shares the objectives of your parliament, also expressed in this new draft resolution, with regard to the promotion and protection of the rule of law. it is essential that all the union institutions work together to this end. the rule of law report is an important instrument in pursuing our common objectives. with the second edition of this report, we see once again that it is having a real impact. it is not just an assessment of the rule of law for analytical purposes, but rather an instrument to influence reforms in many member states. the report also proved that it could serve as a basis for a genuine political dialogue on the rule of law, both at european and national level. the commission welcomes the draft resolution of your parliament that we are debating today. i appreciate that it underlines a number of positive aspects of the rule of law report, such as the equal treatment of all member states and the fact that the functioning of justice systems, the anti-corruption framework, media pluralism and certain institutional issues related to checks and balances are all part of this report. i am grateful that you acknowledge all efforts to engage with civil society, giving full credit to the vital importance that civil society organisations play for the proper functioning of the rule of law. civil society organisations are also very important partners in the preparation of the rule of law report as they provide valuable information on the situation on the ground. for the 2022 report, we have conducted more than 100 meetings with civil society organisations. we have also received over 250 contributions from stakeholders, many of these from civil society organisations, but also from professional organisations, or from other institutions. moreover, your resolution notes that the commission engaged in debates with your parliament and with national parliaments. first of all, i have had the opportunity to hold several discussions with this parliament in the plenary and in several committees. let me reiterate that i am ready to engage with you even more, perhaps in a more formalized format, and notably in debating the situation of the rule of law in country-specific exchanges regarding all member states. as regards national parliaments, last year the rule of law report was the most discussed topic amongst the more than 100 meetings that all members of the commission had with national parliaments. i can tell you first hand how important and valuable these discussions are for both sides. without the rule of law report, such informed and objective political debates would not be possible. the resolution also welcomes the fact that this year's report will include specific recommendations for all member states. i also take note of some more critical points of concern and concrete suggestions in your resolution. these are important contributions for further advancing our work. as regards the call to link the country-specific recommendations with country-specific tools to be used if member states will not follow up, allow me to recall that the report is only one of the instruments at our disposal. while there must be synergies between the instruments, they are separate, with different conditions for their use and different objectives. they require a separate and detailed assessment in each case. it will not seem appropriate to preempt or rule out possible future decisions to use one of the tools at the time of the adoption of a specific edition of the rule of law report. we need to ensure our ability to react to developing situations with the most appropriate instruments at hand. let me also assure you that the commission does not hesitate to use the instruments we have to protect the rule of law and eu values in general. as you know, most recently the commission sent a written notification to hungary under the conditionality regulation. in addition, we pursue the protection of the rule of law through various other initiatives. this includes the recommendation on the safety of journalists adopted last year, our recent proposal to protect journalists and human rights defenders against slapps and the 10th edition of the justice scoreboard that i will be presenting tomorrow. in parallel, the commission is continuing its enforcement actions against those member states that violate eu law, including through daily penalty payments in case of continued failure to respect decisions of the european court of justice. also next week, the council will be holding a hearing under the article 7 procedure concerning hungary, where i will participate. in conclusion, the commission is now preparing the 2022 rule of law report and we aim to adopt it in july. we will assess developments since the previous report and we will examine to what extent concerns have been addressed or processed or whether the situation has further deteriorated. as i said, for the first time this edition will include country-specific recommendations for all the member states, which i know was very important for this parliament. of course, i am looking forward to discussing this third edition of the report with you, if its possible, with debates dedicated to all the member states. but already today i thank you for your attention, not only for my speech, but for the rule of law report since 2020.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – madam president, first of all, congratulations to the rapporteur. as i was the rapporteur of the initial legislative proposal in october 2016, there is a special place in my heart. whereas the idea of the annual rule of law report, or the annual rule of law health check, has been very favourably received by the general public, the commission has been as eager as a toddler about vegetables. it initially rejected the idea altogether, and only after a few years it introduced a drastically slimmed down version. now, the addition of country—specific recommendations in this year’s edition is very welcome, but key elements from the 2016 proposal are still missing, notably, the panel of independent experts. and that is important because the commission is simply not free and independent enough to really critically assess the member states. it will mince its words. fortunately, in the reintke report, there is a proposal to set up a panel by this parliament. i would really urge the commission to give a full and swift follow—up to all the elements of the 2016 proposals. i also think that the timing of the publication of the annual report, at the end of july, is particularly unfortunate. and i ask you, commissioner, why? why is it buried in the summer break? we call, instead, for an ‘annual values week’ in september. finally, the eu governance structure should equally be subject to scrutiny, and therefore i’m very happy to note the support of this house for my call for an opinion of the venice commission on key democratic principles, in particular, the separation of powers, accountability, and checks and balances.
the committee on petitions has already adopted a number of amendments. madam president, commissioner, in the committee on petitions we adopted an opinion which had two main objectives. on the one hand, it must reflect the fundamental principles of the rule of law, principles which must be respected by each and every member state: separation of powers, independence and impartiality of the judiciary, equality before the law, enforcement of judgments, the fight against corruption and fake news, protection of whistleblowers and journalists and, of course, honouring the victims of terrorism by making every effort to clarify unsolved crimes. but on the other hand, this report should also reflect, and it has done so, the large number of requests from citizens of the union that have reached the parliamentary committee relating to the defence of the rule of law and the denunciation of violations that have occurred in the territories of the union. let us not forget that the defence of the rule of law must always be accompanied by consistency: we shall have no credibility if we only denounce violations and breaches in the light of the political colour of the government in office and keep silent in other cases because of alleged ideological affinity; this game, which is being played by some, and not a few, members of this house, is very harmful to our institutions and to our project of rights and freedoms.
madam president, commissioner, the state of the rule of law in europe is not in its best health. neither the one on fundamental rights nor the one on democracy. in this robust report by my colleague, terry reintke, we therefore ask that the annual report also cover these two fundamental principles which are the essence of the european union. similarly, for this annual report to be a useful exercise, the commission must provide solutions for each problem and also ensure proper follow-up, including infringement procedures, article 7 procedures of the treaty on european union and budgetary conditionality procedures. because in this house, the rule of law and fundamental rights are upheld. and not just to point to poland or hungary. there are many european countries with worrying democratic shortcomings and a serious deterioration of the rule of law. it is time for the commission to take this matter seriously and act firmly before it is too late. are they the guarantors of the treaties? prove it to me!
madam president, commissioner, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur aurore lalucq for an excellent report. tomorrow, the parliament will speak. clearly, we want the minimum level of taxation for multinational groups to be swiftly adopted. i have to say that my group is really puzzled by what is going on in the council at the moment. that we are not able to agree on that proposal, which is basically what the commission presented, a copy-paste of the international deal – and it’s not something that is really revolutionary, it’s an important first step, but it’s only a copy-paste of the international deal – is simply unacceptable. we need to tell poland very clearly that they need to unblock it and they need to do it now. and if that is not the case, colleagues, the risk really is that if the eu does not apply this deal, the us may not do it either and maybe the whole deal may fall. so, i think we cannot afford to do that. so, all the pressure needs to go to poland, i hope that next week we will have good news. but otherwise, if that is not the case, we will have no other option than to explore other legal ways, like article 116, or maybe enhanced cooperation. but we cannot fail this time.
we are in favour of fair taxation and a level playing field as far as possible. at the same time, we are also in favour of a single market with sufficient competition. that means tax competition. at a time when our citizens are being hit hard by rising prices, additional burdens on businesses are not the right answer, because who is going to pay additional business taxes? employees, as revealed by imf research, consumers and shareholders. the additional costs are also additional bureaucratic rules, in which we in the eu are unfortunately already world champions. this directive means that large companies have to pay extra for lawyers, legal experts, accountants and consultancy firms. governments will also have to hire a new army of bureaucrats. the water always flows to the sea. it is a strange idea that countries which already give tax advantages to their companies will not find another way to give advantages to multinationals. this proposal will have many undesirable side effects. let's reconsider this.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. it succeeded last october in getting 137 countries to agree on a global minimum tax under the new bridge. yes, but the work on the international scene is not progressing as expected, and the fulfillment of promises has been called into question. the effort to tax the theorists, which was originally intended to tax the theorists, but has now been transformed into a first pillar, has completely failed, so there is a risk that they will be the ones to escape taxation. what the commission is certainly moving forward with is the harmonisation of taxation for eu companies. the adoption of a directive on this subject would jeopardise the union's competitiveness. it is in our common interest to have an agreement not only on the global minimum tax, but also on the second pillar. if the us votes against it in the senate, for example, or if china does not follow eu regulations, we will further increase the gap that already separates us from our competitors. do we really want to shoot ourselves in the foot when war, energy crisis and inflation are already putting our companies in a difficult position? i suggest we don't rush ahead. our compass should be the interests of european companies and citizens, not the appeal of champions of taxation.
madam president, commissioner, today's debate is a debate to ratify a decision taken by the major states within the framework of the oecd to decide that there should be a minimum tax rate. we can debate whether this minimum tax rate should be higher or lower, but really what we have to do is ratify a decision that has been taken, which is what the commission is doing by putting that ratification on the table. what i am very concerned about is that this debate is used - as is always done in this parliament whenever there is a debate on taxation, as this debate is, which is a very important debate - to talk about more interventionism, more bureaucracy and more costs for european companies. we are living in a terrible time, a time in which we are still dragging the consequences of the financial crisis of the year 2018, in which, in addition, we have lived and are seeing the social and economic consequences of covid-19, in which we are living the very harsh economic consequences of russia's illegal invasion of ukraine. and it is certainly time to talk about making europe more competitive, creating more jobs in europe, and that also means talking about tax cuts. we cannot take every opportunity - as happens in this parliament - to talk constantly about the need to raise taxes. we have to lower taxes. it is proven that this makes it easier for companies to create jobs, easier for them to grow and create that much needed progress and, finally, more capacity to raise money and pay for much needed social spending.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of this pandemic and in the face of the potentially devastating effects of russia's aggression against ukraine on our economies, we have never been more aware of the urgent need to invest in human capital, that is, skills. i therefore welcome the commission's proposals for the establishment of individual training accounts, inspired by the french system, and the introduction of micro-certifications. these accessible and flexible tools are essential to change the face of lifelong learning. i would like to emphasise the use of micro-credits, micro-certifications, the recognition of psychosocial skills acquired during a european mobility experience or a solidarity commitment. i can testify that our young people come back completely transformed from these experiences in terms of self-confidence, the ability to listen and communicate, to get out of their zone of confidence, the ability to adapt and innovate, and to work in a team. a european-wide psychosocial skills framework is needed, which translates into better employability in both business and government. this will have the double advantage of meeting a strong expectation of our young people and of serving as a major lever to embark on erasmus, the european solidarity corps, or alma, the young people furthest from europe. we need a big bang of nontechnical skills. with the will, this is now possible thanks to micro-certifications. are you ready to start this project? how soon?
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, in 2020, 46.1% of the adult population needed training and retraining. without this upskilling or reskilling, it is clear that we will not have quality jobs, much less a just green and digital transition. that is why we need a successful european education area, but above all one that is inclusive, accessible and cohesive. a space that promotes a lifelong learning mindset, which, in addition to skills and competences, puts people at the centre and takes into account soft skills and sustainability and includes the creative and cultural sectors. we need to go beyond formal education and integrate vocational training, volunteering and informal modes of learning, so that each and every one of us can be truly active in a more inclusive and sustainable society.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following an interesting proposal for micro-credentials, which can offer useful and flexible training adapted to the present moment and to the situation of each person throughout his professional life, another idea is also being put forward, which is not very clear: the concept of the european education area with objectives for 2025. it is concerned that this idea may amount to an interference with the sovereignty of the member states in terms of educational competences in the service of promoting ideologies such as gender and climate in an effort to homogenize the interests of people in europe that limits the subjects, as mentioned here today, to the consecration of ecological sustainability: it seems that there is only a need for training along this line. it is also disturbing that it is intended to promote education for european and global citizenship and the activist appeal of young people for a more inclusive and sustainable society; that is, indoctrination. let's get this straight.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, commissioner, this motion we are debating today comes from the question with request for an oral answer that several members asked about micro-credentials in education in the context of the european education area by 2025. the text contains ambitious proposals in the framework of universal access to education, emphasising issues such as the close link between lifelong learning and employability, strengthening links with the green transition, the formulation of a framework for the recognition of skills and competences acquired through informal and non-formal learning, and the insistence that the available options should not be strictly limited to the needs of the labour market. in any case, the situation of persons studying in minority languages of the union should be taken into account in the micro-credentials. it should be stressed that these languages are vehicles in the education system - in my country, for example, almost 70% of pupils choose euskara as a vehicle language - and should not be ignored by the european education area, and micro-credentials should also serve to promote the movement of students across borders, thus helping them to complete their studies in our european languages.
mr president, the aggression against ukraine represents in the most dramatic way the opposition of two models of society and of two attitudes towards the centrality of international law. this must also be seen in the different approach to the criminal consequences of russian aggression. we - and in this "we" of course i include ukraine - have to be extremely careful in our procedures. we must be decisive, given the gravity of the facts, but we must also be irreproachable, exemplary, transparent and always conduct ourselves anchored in the law. any mistake in this area will be more fuel for the russian machine of disinformation regarding ukraine and the western world. commissioner, two years ago this parliament, as the budgetary authority, approved the creation of a european observatory on the fight against impunity. the commission has been dragging its feet for two years and apparently has only one study, and in this situation the european union observatory on the fight against impunity would have been very useful. the european union must have this observatory and other mechanisms which, although not permanent, can be activated immediately in situations such as the one we are experiencing.
mr president, i would like to thank in particular maria arena, the author of this resolution, which i fully support, and in particular the initiative to create this special tribunal to try the crime of aggression, not because we want to weaken the international criminal court; we have also asked for financial support for it. we have recently learned that the foreign policy instrument service is going to provide this ad hoc funding so that the international criminal court can investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity. but it is not within its competence at the moment to try and investigate the crime of aggression, which, as has already been said, is absolutely obvious. and in that sense, i take this second to address myself directly to commissioner reynders, who is here and whom i thank for his presence, so that the european union takes the lead in a proposal to establish this special court, as well as a legislative proposal so that we can use the assets of the central bank of russia for the reconstruction of ukraine.
mr president, commissioner simson, thank you for the efforts you are making in the energy situation and for the package presented: this is about solidarity, and we must be in solidarity, for example with bulgaria and poland, and i think we must make progress there. our energy dependence is being used as a weapon of war, and russia can no longer be a reliable supplier to the european union. the energy transition must be accelerated, and repowereu is a solution to this: promoting decarbonised energy, increasing renewables, increasing energy efficiency... and, moreover, they have listened to the member states, seeing how there are several proposals, such as the use of windfall profits, the joint gas purchase mechanisms, the hydrogen proposals or the agreement this very morning to increase gas reserves for the coming winter. repowereu is therefore moving in the right direction, it is a boost, but these measures, let us remember, must not increase emissions, they must be compatible with the european green deal, and we will also be vigilant in these aspects. our aim is climate neutrality and reducing emissions: climate change is here and there is a heat wave all over southern europe right now, and we need to be aware of it.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
in writing. the russian invasion of ukraine has made it clear that the european union must eliminate the union's energy dependence on russia. the spanish socialist delegation to the european parliament welcomes the repowereu plan and the associated legislative proposals proposed by the commission to reduce europe's energy dependence on russia. the measures are in the direction of the solutions proposed by the socialists; accelerating the deployment of indigenous renewable energies, improving the energy efficiency of the union, while diversifying our energy supplies and planning investments in energy infrastructure compatible with climate neutrality. the socialists also call for more far-reaching measures to curb the rise in energy prices. in the short term, it is urgent to decouple the price of gas from the price of electricity. the socialists in parliament also support initiatives to provide greater security of energy supply to the union, especially in the event of abrupt cuts in gas supplies. but we are calling for decision and coordination to put the necessary measures and policies into effect.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the periodic report on the candidate countries describes their progress in converging on european standards of all kinds, and at its core, of course, is the examination of the situation of rights and freedoms and the rule of law; it is not unusual to recall this in an environment where principles and values tend to yield to crude geopolitical considerations. the european union remains a club of advanced democracies, as the measures against existing partners that deviate from that principle prove rather than deny. this introduction is very appropriate when we talk about turkey, because everything there seems to be based on a miscalculation: since we are useful from a geopolitical point of view, all western criticism must give way and the accession process must be accelerated. this is a very damaging misconception, i hope for all the institutions, but certainly for this parliament, and that is why the heart of the report is the current disastrous situation of democratic standards in turkey, but it is more serious: it is not just that unfortunate level, but that the consolidated trend is to get worse. other authoritarian systems are so because they have not matured sufficiently or because they have stopped their democratic impulse; in the case of turkey it is not that, but a deliberate regression from a better situation: the majority of adult turks have lived a better turkey, a more democratic, more advanced, more open, less isolated turkey; an incipient democracy is not in turkey an intellectual aspiration, but the life experience of several generations of turks, turks and turks who see their democratic hopes sink into an authoritarian spiral that seems to have no end. the authoritarian character which is, at this stage, when all the alibis have disappeared, a state policy fully deliberated, programmed and executed with frightening coldness by the ruling elite: repression on an increasingly disarmed society, sectarianally informed and maintained with pathological media doses of a nationalism that puts the rights of the nation above the rights and happiness of citizens. the core of the report reflects this situation; moreover, in the last few days we have had to add new cases of rights violations and, if we waited two weeks, we would have another handful of new cases, some even announced: in a few months the third party of the country, the hdp, which voted almost six million citizens and got 100 mayors, is likely to be outlawed, and all to go more comfortably to the elections. if this trend is confirmed in the next elections, i personally do not believe that the accession process can survive another five years, even though that is the best resource we have to defend that civil society. the report also examines other aspects of the relationship and in the period under review there has been a better tone than in the previous period and some modest progress has been made, but again in recent weeks tensions and aggressive statements about greece have come back on the table, reinforcing an impression of unpredictability which helps to understand the very costly political isolation of turkey. secondly, the war has given turkey an opportunity to assert itself as an important actor in security matters: turkey's mediation attempt was welcomed, even if it failed, but what turkey cannot do is pretend that, given that geopolitical role, it is time to accelerate repression, trying to reduce external criticism; in reality, what turkey is doing is wasting its scarce international credit, reinforcing its bad image and underlining its isolation, and this parliament is certainly not going to be silent before outrages such as those of kavala, kaftancıoğlu, kılıç or boğaziçi university, whatever turkey's geopolitical role. a role, by the way, not at all clear at this stage; it is not just not following the sanctions, it is expressly inviting the kremlin kleptocrats to enjoy and invest on the turkish coast, to issue credit cards for russian citizens by the thousands, to the exponential increase in flights between russia and turkey, to the passage through the straits of civilian merchants who can carry weapons or to the lack of progress in the export of odessa cereals: measures which, taken as a whole, are very similar to a system to get around the sanctions. if war clearly marks the division between democracies and authoritarian systems, it is obvious that turkey is not on our side, because the model of society it offers is the russian model; if war clearly marks the division between countries that defend international relations based on law and not on the force of arms, it is obvious that turkey, with its operations in nagorno karabakh, iraq or syria, is not on our side; if war clearly marks the division between military allies and rivals, it is obvious that turkey, with its irresponsible veto against sweden and finland, is making a gift to the kremlin. i'm finished, madam president. turkey has no problem with sweden and finland: turkey has a problem with any democracy, and this report shows that.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank the work of the alternative rapporteurs. this is a complicated, demon-possessed dosage, but the truth is, working with them has made it very easy. our commitment, ladies and gentlemen, is to a country, not a government. and when we think about the relationship with the country, let's think about its civil society, because we are the little thing that is left of that civil society. let us not forget that when we talk about turkey. as i always say: turkey is not erdoğan and erdoğan is not turkey. and we go to this bazaar diplomacy of the nato veto to sweden and finland, which is an irresponsible veto, because it's a political gift to the kremlin. does turkey think that sweden and finland are happy to join an alliance in which one of their members has russian missiles of the same type that could theoretically be used against them? is it not a mockery that turkey is allowed to lecture sweden on its anti-terrorism legislation when there is a universal outcry over turkey's use of its own? turkey may be missing its penultimate chance, but it will have been this government, let us not forget, not turkish civil society.
mr president, yesterday, radical islamists carried out a serious attack on a church in nigeria. over half a hundred catholics were killed, including many children, and the priest who was officiating at the mass was kidnapped to be subjected to god knows what torments. last month muslim students in the same country beat, stoned and burned alive a catholic girl for saying she loved jesus christ. this parliament has expressly refused to condemn these savage acts. instead, this week they bring back the debate on how bad poland is for not putting up traffic lights in skirts, and they bring us a debate on the pro-life movement in the united states, on an abortion ruling that has not been passed. meanwhile, here in europe there are more and more areas where the states have no control. in saint-denis it was clearly visible the other day and in spain the socialist and popular governments are looking the other way, for example, on the coast of almeria. when will they realise that their complicity in the immigration invasion has cost them control over large parts of europe?
mr president, commissioner, we have spoken a lot about justice in this debate, but we all know that justice is a rather difficult concept. the commissioner said that no one is left behind, but nevertheless we are in a situation where these differences easily give rise to incomprehensible situations, which are far from being fair. we talk about biodiversity, but biodiversity also happens in different countries at different rates, and for example, mutations happen in very different ways in different forests and are linked to the life cycle and biological age of an organism. there are also phenomena that are difficult to measure. how much finnish forest is needed to offset the emissions of a dutch pig, for example? i don't know this. i suspect that commissioner timmermans does not know this either, but let us see if we can find some answers. building heating has caused a lot of problems and controversy. most finnish homes are already heated by district heating or heat pumps, so it would have been quite easy for us to switch. for others, it would have been very difficult. but we are now obviously being forced to move into the future in a way that is not necessarily good for finland but is socially relevant for other countries. but you see, we're constantly struggling with different metrics, and we don't always get the right answers. in january we had a discussion with the commissioner about the most difficult part of this reform. he said that the hardest part was maintaining power, and that was in january. on september 24th, this too became much, much more difficult. but despite all this, i am voting in favour of this motion.
madam president, colleagues. commissioner timmermans, we’ve always said the green deal should also be a social deal and we have now a unique opportunity to actually make that happen. we have to support the most vulnerable in the climate transition and at the same time make the biggest polluters pay. now we managed to protect families from a new carbon price and we will invest eur 44.5 billion eu funding into supporting them in social climate measures. that means, for instance, insulation of social housing, that means more and better investments in affordable public transport. now let’s make absolutely sure that we focus on lifting those vulnerable households out of energy and mobility poverty – not only smes as the epp is proposing. we already have enough funds to support those smes and at the same time there’s nothing to support the poorest families. how is that even possible when people right now can’t even afford to heat their own homes? finally, we need to make those biggest polluters pay, and that means getting rid of the free allowances as soon as possible. i’m actually quite amazed that the epp wants to delay the phase-out of those free allowances even beyond 2030, especially with cbam kicking in. colleagues, let’s vote this down. otherwise we can simply forget the people’s support for the climate transition, because social and environmental justice cannot be separated.
madam president, 'to be fit' means to be ready to do something under better conditions and without adverse effects. that is the first lie of this authoritarian social engineering project that is the green deal, which includes the fit for 55 package that we are going to vote on tomorrow. the process of decarbonising the economy is a legitimate objective in itself. to do so under conditions where the assured damages outweigh all the possible benefits is not at all so. using legitimate citizen expectations in a cleaner environment to impose an economic and social model steeped in interventionist, socialist and climate ideology is worse than illegitimate. it is a swindle on the european nations. to do so with little impact study and no scientific basis is also an attack on the safety and well-being of europeans. the package has unrealistic targets which are at odds with the needs of the sectors affected by the proposals on land use, effort sharing, emissions trading or the border carbon adjustment mechanism. the consequences will be greater relocation of our companies and increased dependence on strategic industrial sectors, with a disproportionate impact on the most disadvantaged classes which will in no way alleviate that social fund vine leaf. with those wicks, the fit for 55 climate package is not part of the solution, it's part of the problem.
madam president, mr timmermans, this is not a debate on environmental protection or sustainability, because we all agree on that. this debate is about whether your measures will improve the quality of life of our europeans or whether they will lead to economic and social ruin. and i'm sorry to tell you, outside of this bubble, our industry is dying. and, with a war, much more. you know perfectly well that this legislative package was created in the offices with the sole aim of generating slogans on twitter, ignoring that behind the decisions that are taken here every day, the lives of thousands of citizens are at stake who may close their businesses, who may lose their jobs because for some it is simply more important to put a green sign behind each of the legislative packages that this commission approves. you know perfectly well, too, that many of our companies are not able to adapt, but not because they can't, but because it's technologically unfeasible. they can't. i could give you many examples, but one is particularly bloody: the case of the port of algeciras in spain, which is mortally wounded simply because the decisions that are to be taken here are not based on technology or scientific evidence. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind that our decisions are extremely important and that no hashtag or twitter slogan can be worth more than our own industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we really need renewable energy sources because they are better for both man and the environment. but we will not achieve this by dogmatic approach, coercion and prohibitions. so who's going to take care of all the internal combustion cars if we ban them? where do we get the raw materials for new battery cars? what about the dead and broken batteries? i'm excited about the development of electric cars, but i'm curious about how much longer it's really going to last, which is that with the number of recharges, the capacity of the batteries drops, and a new one costs half the vehicle. how many people can afford all this? besides, where do we get all this electricity for all these electric cars? from the thermal power plant? green transition is like driving a car. it's not the fastest ride that's the best because you can fall off the curve, and that could happen to us. if you push it we could do more harm than good. so change is good and necessary, but we need to make it happen at real speed.
mr. president, climate change is a threat to the planet, a problem we must combat. denying it is a mistake, as is not being realistic. the european commission cannot ignore the economic and social crisis we are suffering from the consequences of covid, war and inflation. the objective 55 package cannot be a hindrance to economic recovery and job creation or a drain on the pockets of europeans. if we demand from entrepreneurs, the self-employed, workers and families measures they cannot afford, the fight against climate change will fail, and our economy will lose competitiveness and become delocalised. the necessary ambition for a sustainable and circular economy is not incompatible with the relaxation of measures in the midst of the crisis in order not to leave families and smes behind. we must think of the protection of our environment, but also of our economy and our jobs; of road transport, whose cost in terms of fuel is already at an all-time high in europe; of aviation, where tourists and families will pay the additional costs of this transition; of maritime transport, which will end up driving shipping companies out of european ports, with more tax burdens, such as the spanish one in algeciras; or of households, which will suffer an increase in their receipts. let us therefore be responsible, let us manage with rigor, let us avoid decisions which will lead to thousands of jobs and worsen the situation of the european economy. let's react today so we don't have to correct tomorrow.
mr president, europe leads humanity in its existential fight against climate change. however, we have left a loophole. by moving manufacturing out of europe, firms can avoid paying the cost of polluting. this allows them to outcompete european firms who play by the rules, while at the same time damaging the environment. as a result, although we have reduced our domestic emissions by 21%, the emissions in our imports have risen by 28%. today, with the carbon border adjustment mechanism, we close this loophole. the mechanism makes companies outside the european union pay for the emissions through the products that they sell in the european union. the message is plain: no firm shall be more competitive by damaging the environment. choosing to cut european jobs to avoid european rules is not an option. in other words, if you want to trade with us, you need to fight climate change. in the past few months, parliament has heightened the ambition of the mechanism, mr president, by expanding its scope across the entire value chain, by including all emissions – embedded, direct and indirect emissions – and by designating the european authority to deliver it. now we need the commission to faithfully implement it.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, mr. timmermans, first of all, i would like to ask you to really consider how you will vote tomorrow on the proposal to reduce co2 emissions from cars. i would like to stress that this regulation will have enormous economic and social implications across the european union. the automotive industry in the european union employs millions of people and, in my country, for example, it generates up to 8% of gdp. after the pandemic, the sector is not in top shape and faces a number of other serious problems. in addition, the lack of access to personal automobile transportation for the poorest or the collapse of this industry can cause great social unrest. before we ban the sale of new cars with combustion engines, we must first offer people an affordable alternative to personal transportation. i would very much like to see the revision of this regulation not end up like last time, when member states washed their hands of the development of clean mobility and its infrastructure. for central and eastern europe, these cars are completely unaffordable and the infrastructure to charge them is tragic. it also needs to be a bit proportionate. if we are talking about the end of the sale of cars with combustion engines, it is necessary to say that it makes no economic sense to adopt any new emission limits, whether in the form of a new euro 7 standard or new transitional co2 limits in the meantime. with the end of the internal combustion engine in sight, it makes no sense for the manufacturers to invest billions of euros in further development. instead, they can be invested in the development of clean mobility and its accessibility.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! today's debate and vote can certainly be called the new industrial revolution, because the decisions we take will have a huge impact and significance for european industry and the economy. today, there is no doubt that our responsibility as european citizens is to protect the environment, to protect the climate, to reduce fuel consumption and, consequently, to protect the health and lives of europe's citizens. but to do that, we need to propose solutions that are both feasible for member states and socially acceptable, because that is the only way to achieve the objectives we set ourselves. we must also remember that europe and european society are still grappling with the effects of the covid pandemic and the consequences of the war in ukraine. so we must protect the environment with european businesses, european industry and european jobs in mind. that's why i'm proposing a b-trajectory in the effort sharing regulation. it is also ambitious, but it allows member states some flexibility, predictability and a safety buffer to achieve their objectives. we also recently voted on the climate law, and it says that climate neutrality by 2050 is achieved by europe collectively, together, and not by each member state individually, as the envi commission proposes. because as rapporteur polfjärd said, every country has a different level of development, different capacities, different opportunities and different levels of gdp... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, the calculation of carbon sinks is taking a big step forward when we vote on the lulucf regulation tomorrow. sustainable forestry and wood use bring benefits to the climate in terms of carbon emissions and also in products, as wood raw material replaces fossil raw materials. it's good that the climate calculation encourages this too. the accounting of climate calculation shall be as accurate as possible and based on the latest developments in nature. i am very pleased with the position of parliament on this point. the big question of the goal of increasing carbon stocks will be decided in tomorrow's vote, and it will be a tough one. we must commit ourselves to the target agreed at the climate summit, which is 310 megatons. we are in a deepening energy and food crisis, and we cannot afford to tighten up our land use targets any further.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i followed the work on the regulation on co2 standards for cars in the last parliament and i remember very well, very well, the resistance of those who opposed stricter standards because of the alleged inability of the industry to convert in time. well, we saw and then found the exact opposite: the commission has also found that the measures in question are not imputable to the state. this shows that what some political parties feared was unrealistic is, in fact, not only possible, but also beneficial in every respect. we need one more shot today, because the climate crisis and the pollution of our air, the air we breathe in our cities, demand that we act quickly. i say this mostly in italian: my country is the first in europe for premature deaths from air pollution, almost 60,000 a year. so banning polluting vehicles is not an ecological fad, but a social, health, environmental, climate and economic emergency. economically, yes, because electric mobility creates jobs.
mr president, vigo, zaragoza, madrid, valencia, palencia, valladolid, pamplona, martorell and barcelona, orense, vitoria, avila, tona and jaén are all cities in spain where there is an automobile or component industry. i'm sure the spaniards who work there know that none of you have been to see them, nor will you. you won't show up to answer for your lives if you're fired or replaced early, but with your vote you will decide about your lives and jobs. it seems that their aim is to destroy european industry and give asian production the market. have you been told that the production process of a vehicle takes more than six years and that you cannot change the rules of the game in the middle of the process? will you explain to the hauliers who do not arrive at the end of the month that they have to buy a more expensive vehicle with less cargo capacity? and where are they going to recharge the vehicles? do you know that most europeans live crammed into buildings and with their cars on the streets? i understand that you don't care. down here, we have dozens of electric cars for ourselves, and neither you nor the big companies will suffer, but your fanaticism will lead to the ruin of our families and our companies.
mr president, to the previous speaker: if you care so much about the lives of workers, what you can do is support the european minimum wage and not vote against it, as you have done in recent months. step by step - late, too - we are moving forward on the european union's roadmap to curb the climate emergency. any measure to achieve the decarbonisation of the economy, mitigate the effects of climate change and care for the social fabric of our societies is in the right direction. parliament is making its mark on these developments, but this is only the beginning. we are sending a very clear message to the commission: we want much more ambition, and that is being negotiated from now on. at the heart of this fight against the climate emergency, there is nothing but the lives of those who live in cities, of those who live in villages, of those who live off the land and depend on it. the ecological transition cannot be at the expense of people or territories and, above all, it cannot be the cover for the huge profits of multinational companies. the transition must be the commitment and the obligation of those who can do more, of those who have the most responsibility for the future, leaving no one behind.
mr. president, we have to wait. there are two ideas from mr timmermans which i think are leading the way: it must be a coherent package, he said this morning, where no one is left behind, and this policy must be fair or it will not be a good policy. well, i think we have to be ambitious, but conscious; pragmatic with the possibilities and with the rhythms we can follow, but without giving up the goal; and we have to seek broad social support or we will fail. two very specific mentions. as regards co2 emissions from cars and vans, the targets presented by the commission are realistic, they must be met by 2035, zero emissions, the sector shares it, they respond to equity, balance and just transition. with regard to the utcuts, the importance of natural carbon sinks is indisputable, but we must not and cannot ignore conservation and nature protection policies, the scarcity of water resources and the impact of climate change. the forest area managed alone is not sufficient to ensure the national objectives in a fair way. i appreciate the solution you've found, a compensation fund. i hope that you will find support in the house tomorrow and also, mr timmermans, that you will find support in the tripartite dialogues afterwards.
mr president, the truth is that many here appeal to history, but they seem to forget. to blackmail poland with money here, to take money away from it, when it has four million refugees it is hosting and it is hosting them largely because it is not defending ukraine, because germany is sabotaging the heroic resistance effort of ukraine... in germany, it is being systematically sabotaged and that is why poland is in this situation. we now see the germans threatening the poles, threatening the hungarians because they are not behaving well with them. have you heard about the violations of judicial independence in spain? have you heard about how the spanish government, socialist communist, tramples on judicial independence? how he tramples on prosecutors, how he changes them, how he has a prosecutor general who has been minister of justice and who uses politics and uses justice brutally against everything that is complained to them and covers up all his corruption? and they haven't said anything about that? it doesn't bother them. there, in spain, they're giving sanchez money. and mrs von der leyen comes to spain and says that mr sanchez is wonderful and what a wonderful example sanchez is. sánchez is a disgrace.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, after more than 100 days of the russian invasion of ukraine, an aggression which we condemned from the outset, the european union is faced with an important decision. it can choose the path proposed in the report, a path of confrontation and military escalation, or the alternative position we have put forward, which proposes a different way out. after decades of pressure and harassment policies against russia by the united states and nato, using the european union as a tool in the service of these objectives, we have reached a scenario that everyone says they do not want, but which some dreamed of. the sanctions policy of the european union is hypocritical. as an example, we buy the same russian oil, but now we pay a premium because we buy it from india instead of russia. the sanctions are not being paid by putin, they are being paid by our peoples, with unprecedented inflation in the last forty years, while the ruble is appreciating by 35% against the euro. the industrial and agricultural sectors are already suffering the effects of these sanctions through the shortage of, for example, steel, cereals and fertilisers. we propose that, in the face of conflicts, instead of fuelling escalation, the european union should work to resolve them. it must cooperate with the united nations in seeking diplomatic and political solutions. we propose that the european union protect refugees, regardless of their passport, and that it defend freedom of opinion and information. we are proposing, in short, that the european union should build peace rather than encourage wars.
mr president, i say to madam president von der leyen and mr president michel that we are very happy that the council has agreed on an oil embargo. congratulations. however, this agreement still has three shortcomings. as you said, madame von der leyen, there’s still no mention of gas. the agreement excludes oil coming through pipelines. if you allow me, the ‘orbán-putin’ pipeline is still open, and it will take six months to be implemented. in the mean time, mr putin continues receiving inflated oil and gas revenues to pay for his military aggression, and mr orbán continues receiving his oil, which comes mostly from this pipeline. this is unacceptable. we need to stop mr putin reducing these revenues, and we need to shorten this war, and we also need to restore the level playing field in the single market. how can we do that? we can accomplish both things by imposing a tariff on russian oil imports. madame von der leyen, a 30% oil tariff would provide the european union with around eur 15 billion in additional revenue. as i have estimated elsewhere, mr michel, russia would lose approximately twice as much from the reduction of the oil exports plus the direct cost of the tariffs. a key advantage of the tariff is that it doesn’t require unanimity, so a qualified majority of member states in the council, according to article 31, is enough to get that tariff and recover the past and recover the level playing field. the tariff could be in force next week if the council voted on it now. let’s do it now. this war has already lasted too long.
mr president, the war has shown our weaknesses and our dependencies, and in the face of these weaknesses and dependencies i have not heard a single word about trade, about deepening our trade relations, about looking for alternative sources of supply. i've heard it for gas and oil, but not for food. and you know what? the commission has been paralysing trade agreements vital to ensuring alternative food supplies for almost two years. among them, the mercosur agreement, which is fundamental for two exporting countries, such as brazil and argentina. when you look at the photo with the voting results of the un resolution supporting the condemnation of the war in ukraine, do you know which part was in green? latin america, you know. you know what part was in blue abstention? do you know who we never pay attention to in the european parliament, the commission and the council? to latin america, you know. at a time when geopolitics is being talked about, president charles michel said: "if we want to be a geopolitical power... if we want to be a geopolitical power, can we start doing geopolitics and stop keeping our trade agreements in the freezer until someone decides it's time to put them into circulation? can we start trying to ratify trade agreements that can guarantee us alternative markets and alternative supplies?
president of the commission. – mr president, indeed, electricity prices, energy prices are skyrocketing and we are doing a lot on it. we have issued a toolbox that many of our member states are using that is taxing the windfall profits and subsidising thus the vulnerable households and the vulnerable businesses. but we also acknowledge that this is a short-term relief that will not really change something in the structure of the market. and what is the problem of the structure of the market? we still have an electricity market that is designed in a way like it was necessary 20 years ago when we started to bring in the renewables. so it is the renewables that go in first, at that time much more expensive, and later on comes the other energy topics, like for example oil, or gas, or nuclear, or coal. and the one that comes last in, the most expensive, is defining the price. today, the market is completely different. it is the renewables that are the most cost—effective and the cheapest ones. and they come in and then at the very end comes in gas. gas is the most expensive, but it defines the whole price. and this market system does not work anymore. we have to reform it. we have to adapt it to the new realities of dominant renewables. this is the task that the commission has taken over now. this is not trivial. this is a huge reform. it will take time. it has to be well thought through. but we need to step forward to adapt our electricity market to the modern conditions. my second point is a reply to the question malik azmani put forward. we have done steps in the right direction. the first one is we have now the common storage of gas. and today we have 44% of our storage filled. this is better than last year, there we were at the same time at 40%. so the common storage does already work in the right direction. and we have formed just now a joint purchase platform so that the 27 member states can together jointly purchase, for example, gas worldwide. and this is so important because we are a big market power if we work at 27. if we go everyone on its own, its fragmented to 27, and there is not at all a market power. but if we work together, we should keep in mind that of the pipeline gas, we have 75% of the world’s demand. we hold it. so together we are strong, we are powerful, and this we should use now, and therefore we have created this joint platform for gas purchases. then there were several questions on relief and reconstruction. and yes, this is a big and mostly important topic. what is it? first of all, we need relief for ukraine in the short term. as you might know at the moment ukraine needs per month eur 5 billion just to make it for the basics – pensions, salaries, basic services like healthcare. to uphold it they need 5 billion, and here we have to step up together with others. g7 already came forward with a proposal. now we want to join the g7 and we are working on the 9 billion relief for the next months from the european side. but the bigger topic is indeed the topic of reconstruction – marek belka, you mentioned a lot on that. reconstruction would mean that the investment is colossal, as president zelenskyy said, it is indeed colossal. we cannot do it on our own. we will carry our fair share, but we need others like the financial institutions, the imf, oecd, g20, world bank, for example. we need other partners, other countries to join, and therefore we will form a platform co-led by ukraine – they have to own it – and the european union, to make sure that we have a common direction of travel. and then the second thing that is so important is that these investments go hand-in-hand with reforms – to improve the administrative capacity of the country, to fight corruption, to make sure that there’s an independent judiciary, to make sure that there is a conducive environment for the business sector. and we’ve done already a lot with ukraine, and we know already a lot about each other. we have done reforms together, the land reform for example, to kick out oligarchs for example, so a lot has been done through our association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. we have a common grid, for example, too. and therefore, in the very end, important is the signal: there is no wild card for ukraine. there are no shortcuts. the conditions have to be met. but if we invest and if we are combining that with reforms, this will pave the way towards the european union. and finally, my last sentence. yes, the perpetrator – russia – has to pay its fair share. so we are looking into the legal basis to achieve that.
president of the european council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now more than a hundred days since russia launched a brutal, violent and unworthy war against ukraine. it's a war against the ukrainians. it is a trial for the ukrainian people, who are suffering right now from the bombings, the shelling and the atrocities committed by russian troops. it is also a test for the european union, because the missiles that are being fired are also missiles fired against our values, against our fundamental principles, and that is why, from the first day, from the first hour, we have reacted together in unity and firmness. it is true: every meeting of the european council the 27 heads of state or government, when they are gathered is a test for the unity of the european union. the european council has in recent days restored the unity that had been shaken during the last four weeks by the sixth sanctions package. it took a few hours to reach an agreement and i would perhaps like to clarify, in the light of what has been said, that this is an agreement which takes into account and affects 90% of russian oil, without us having to submit to any financial blackmail. it is the technical considerations linked to the geography of a number of countries that have been the criteria for determining how we will assess and progress to solve this issue, to be able to eventually target 100% of russian oil. that's the first element. the second element is support for ukraine. it's financial support. the commission's report has clearly stated that the commitment to reconstruction is the key to the immediate recovery of the country's economy. a form of marshall plan for ukraine will be necessary, and not for another hundred and fifty years. we will start the programmes now, and also commit support for the reforms that will be needed, so that the money raised will help to build, not the ukraine of the past, but the ukraine of tomorrow, modern, transparent, based on extremely strong democratic foundations. it is also a humanitarian support to give a dignified welcome to the many refugees fleeing the country. finally, it is a political support to ensure that, in the multilateral framework, in the international framework, we are also very much mobilized to ensure that the kremlin's false narrative not only does not gain ground, but that it can be fought with the strength of the truth and the rationality arguments we bring. then there is a more essential point which i would also like to touch on, because it will concern us a great deal in the weeks and months ahead: it is food security and the effects of this war on food prices. the european council, the commission and, i am sure, parliament are all fully aware of the threat we face. hunger and food insecurity are instability, insecurity and additional pressures on the european union and on our societies. that is why we have been totally determined, from day one, to both expose the kremlin's lies and above all to act. this is the meaning of the french presidency's proposal, the farm project, the meaning of the german initiative within the framework of the g7, the meaning of the united nations' commitment to unblock the ports that are blocked by this war in ukraine, and we are going to be very committed on this subject. many of you have rightly mentioned the importance of mobilizing ourselves internally to deal with the economic and social consequences of this war, and here too i have told you - because the truth has its place - that for many, many months there has been no european council that has not dealt with the energy question, and that was long before the war in ukraine. this has been the case since last summer, when the first worrying price developments began to emerge. we will continue to be mobilized by very concrete actions on the subject, whether it be proposals for price limitations in conjunction with international partners or those concerning the possible reform of the electricity market. we know that the price of electricity today is highly dependent on the price of gas. that is why the commission has been given a mandate to look into this matter. i can assure you that the 27 heads of state or government are on the front line every day with their people on the issue of social cohesion and the implications for the purchasing power and therefore the choice of our citizens everywhere in europe, and the european council will remain engaged on this issue. the euro summit, which will also be held at the end of june, will also address these issues. finally, a final point raised by a colleague , which concerns engagement in the field of trade policy. it is an impression that i share: the feeling that one cannot look at the trade policy of the european union without taking into account both the geopolitical ambition and the recent developments - the war in ukraine and other developments as well. this is the meaning of the desire to put this debate regularly on the agenda to encourage all the european institutions, including parliament, to take up their responsibilities with glasses and a view adapted to the reality of the solution. in short, what should guide us today is clarity, clarity about the world that is changing before us, because this war, more than a hundred days ago, opened a new chapter in the history of europe: it is unity, unity that is never spontaneous, unity that requires effort, energy, creativity, it is also firmness, to defend the values, to defend this society in which we believe. sometimes, when we close a speech before this assembly, we abuse the impression that our actions today will determine the future of our children. today more than ever, i believe deeply that each of the decisions we are going to make together will have a major impact on the next few decades and on the kind of society our children will live in tomorrow.
the debate is now closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. the war in ukraine continues to claim lives every day. millions of ukrainians have found refuge in europe, but this is not the end. the war in ukraine is becoming more and more brutal. there is no justification for the murder of innocent people, the rape of women, the suffering of children. the european union, together with the international community, must do everything possible to stop russian aggression. it is a pity that the sixth sanctions package is slowly being implemented in the council. in the face of this war, european unity and solidarity must be our weapon in the fight against russia, and i am very much hopeful that the political will will be found to take the necessary decisions. the russian invasion has not only caused untold human suffering in ukraine, but also many consequences felt globally. the eu countries are experiencing uncontrolled rises in food and energy prices, and solutions to these crises must be found urgently. we are seeing inflation surges that we have not seen for decades, and we must not only talk about it, but act on it.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. we also demand that the demographic challenge be met in a coordinated, dignified, united and ambitious way by means of a tax on the profits of the electricity companies, in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. we are in an exceptional situation caused by the war in ukraine, which has generated a wave of instability in europe, with significant risks for the societies and economies of the region, and which requires urgent measures to deal with the consequences of this crisis. the council conclusions underlined that the european union and its member states will continue to support ukraine through humanitarian, economic and political support, and will step up their efforts to respond appropriately to the challenges arising in this context, such as food security and the european union's dependence on russian gas, oil and coal imports. in this respect, romania can become a regional hub ensuring stability and development in eastern europe and the black sea area, concentrating european and international financial resources to support ukraine's reconstruction process.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. spanish socialists believe that when we act in solidarity and unity, europe advances. that is why we welcome the fact that at the last summit the 27 countries adopted the sixth package of sanctions, despite the concessions made by some governments, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. unfortunately, the commission and the council have put the social and economic consequences of this war, which is affecting the daily lives of europeans with the rising cost of living, into the background. the socialists therefore call once again for the council to reach an agreement on the migration pact, all the more so because the climate emergency and the food crisis indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to diminish. and that a dignified, united and ambitious response to the demographic challenge be given by a tax on the profits that fall from the sky of the electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for.
in writing. mr president, for over a hundred days the ukrainian people have fought with incredible courage for freedom and democracy against a brutal aggressor. the sanctions must be tightened further. the cost of war for europe as a whole is far greater than the cost of sanctions. it was a great disappointment that after many weeks of wrangling the last sixth bailout package was watered down in the eu council, with oil imports only partly covered by sanctions. the import of russian gas into europe should also be stopped at last. we can't continue to fund putin's war chest. the commission should make a rapid proposal for the next bailout package, which should include an increase in the coverage of oil sanctions and the disconnection of the last banks from swift. at the same time, this debate shows how important it is that certain foreign policy decisions, such as sanctions, should be taken by qualified majority. ukraine needs all the support it can get. more weapons, humanitarian aid and financial support are needed. ukraine must win this war. russia must be held accountable for its war crimes and must be compensated for the damage it has caused to ukraine. ukraine is fighting for freedom and democracy. i don't want this fight to be for nothing. we must support ukraine's path towards becoming a candidate country for the european union. although there is still a long way to go to become a member of the eu, the direction is clear. we need to be there for her. glory to ukraine!
in writing. the extraordinary european council meeting of 30 and 31 may consolidated the union's solidarity response to the impacts of the invasion of ukraine, in particular by adopting a new package of sanctions, increasing humanitarian support, strengthening military, economic and political support and supporting the neighbouring countries most severely affected by the war. i would stress the creation of a collaborative mechanism to mitigate food security problems and the strengthening of defence and security mechanisms in conjunction with nato. as a matter of urgency, the council took measures to address short-term energy supply shortages and price increases and decided to strengthen energy interconnections across the union, including new electricity and gas interconnections, in this case capable of transporting green hydrogen and contributing to a smart and sustainable energy transition. i would stress the special mention made of the potential of the iberian peninsula to contribute to the security of supply of the whole of the european union through these new investments. finally, i would stress that the particular context does not exempt any member state from respecting the values of the union. this must be taken into account in the practical implementation of the measures taken.
dear colleagues, as you can see by the welcome we have the chairman of the verkhovna rada and my dearest friend, ruslan stefanchuk, with us today. ruslan, i know how difficult it is to leave ukraine at the moment and i know how important it is for us that you are here today. welcoming you here in strasbourg, two months after we met in kyiv, confirms the strong and unique link between the european parliament and the verkhovna rada. your fight for freedom, for democracy, for the values that bind us as europeans, is our fight, and what ukraine has had to endure was unthinkable a few months ago, but your people have inspired the world. your courage, your determination and your defiance in the name of liberty will be spoken about for generations to come. europe stands with ukraine. our parliament stands with the rada. europeans opened their borders, their homes and their hearts to six million ukrainian forced to flee their homeland. we have sent military, financial, political and humanitarian support. and we will continue. we cannot lose momentum. we cannot lose focus. we cannot turn away and allow war fatigue to set in. dear ruslan, when we say the european parliament stands with you, it is a message that bears enormous responsibility for us. we want to assure you that we will continue to support you with any assistance needed to push back against the consequences of the russian invasion. and we will try to help push peace forward. a real peace. in europe, we understand only too painfully that peace without liberty, peace without justice, is no peace at all. the european parliament will also continue actively supporting as you apply for eu candidate status. we know how important it is to send the clearest of signals that ukraine’s place is within our european family; to tell everyone that ukraine is europe. we also need to start a proper discussion on the recovery and rebuilding of ukraine. as i said in kyiv, we will help rebuild every city and every town from mariupol to irpin, from kherson to kharkiv. and we will hold war criminals accountable. thank you, dear ruslan, for the efforts of the verkhovna rada and your personal commitment in sustaining a vision of a european future for your country against all odds. dear chairman, dear ruslan, the floor is yours. slava ukraini!
speaker of the verkhovna rada of ukraine. – (the following is a transcription of the interpretation of the original speech from ukrainian into english) esteemed madam president of the european parliament, esteemed madam president of the european commission, dear colleagues and friends. on 1 march 2022, in the first phase of the large—scale aggression against ukraine committed by russia, together with president volodymyr zelenskyy, i had an opportunity to address the european parliament. i very well remember those moments, because i was choking with emotions in my throat because the most horrible large—scale war had started in ukraine. i am feeling the same emotions now, but for different reasons, because today i am standing among friends and i have – for the first time over the last 105 days – a chance to address the european parliament openly. i feel that i have the support of ukraine in its entirety. therefore, i sincerely thank each and every one of you. thank you for being with ukraine, thank you sincerely for your trust in ukraine, and thank you very much that ukraine is europe. in the first days of the war, we were all shocked because nobody believed that – in the middle of the 21st century, in the middle of europe – a brutal, undeclared and horrible war could be launched. i understand that the entire world was shocked and confused, but we started acting. we started with the most important things – we started to unite. we united at the level of the state, at the level of the people, and at the level of power. we understood and realised that the most important thing today is to preserve ukraine and to do everything possible to make sure that ukraine perseveres. we wanted to unite the entire civilised world around ukraine, because we were aware that this was not just a war against ukraine, but that it was a war against the values, principles and foundations of the world order. therefore, we have been standing as one for 105 days, defending both ukraine and the entire civilised world. on 1 march 2022, the european parliament strongly condemned the actions of the russian federation. the european parliament has always been a powerful voice for the entire european community, and perhaps one of the highest moral authorities that exists on the european continent today. i would like to thank you, on behalf of each and every ukrainian, for being the first to make your powerful voice heard in such a strong and unanimous manner in support of ukraine. you were with us from the very first days. we all remember that president roberta metsola was in kyiv when it was still besieged, and when the enemy forces were in irpin and bucha, in hostomel and borodyanka. she arrived in ukraine and she addressed the ukrainian parliament from the very heart of kyiv. therefore, madam president, i would like to thank you once again for your courage in doing what you did then. we heard powerful words of support for ukraine from you. then you spoke about hope. you called on the entire world to act, and you quoted the words of the great ukrainian poet, taras shevchenko. you addressed the parliament with the words ‘keep fighting – you are sure to win’. madam president, we are fighting and we will win, and we will do it together. now, concerning what ukraine has had to face over the last 105 days: in addition to the enemy aggression and in addition to the numerous missiles that are flying and landing on the heads of ordinary ukrainians – a huge number of whom have been killed, wounded and maimed – we are seeing that the russian federation is continuing to move this war way beyond ukraine’s borders. they are doing it in the way that they normally do, through their lies. the kremlin is talking about the ‘liberation’ of the people of donbas, but at the same time, they are annihilating the largest city in donbas – mariupol. russia says that they are defending christian values at the same time as they burn down the skete of sviatohirsk lavra. they claim that they are trying to prevent a global food crisis at the same time as they steal grain in the occupied territories. what ukraine is doing is counteracting it with belief and truth. we are talking about war crimes; we are talking about the genocide of the ukrainian people; we are saying that ukrainians are being killed now simply because they are ukrainians and an army is killing them – an army that does not respect any laws or conventions. we all have to be aware of that. we are going to speak this truth, and we are going to speak about responsibility before history, before humankind and before the future. this responsibility should be brought to bear. i thank you and the many countries represented in the european parliament for initiating the international criminal court investigation against the russian federation. we would like to have this just verdict. we would like those who are guilty in this criminal war to be punished and to rebuild what they have damaged at their cost. this is a fundamental principle of our unity, and this justice will undoubtedly be done, because it is what we want – we, the countries that stand in favour of the world order. however, we also have to understand that, today in ukraine, more than 14 million people were forcibly displaced, of whom eight million became internally displaced and six million are outside ukraine. i would like to use this opportunity to thank all the eu countries that opened not only the doors of their homes, but also their hearts, for all ukrainians. i sincerely thank all your great peoples. i thank the entire 500 million people of the european union who accepted ukrainians and enabled their survival under these difficult conditions. thank you. dear colleagues, the important question is what is going to happen next? i am not going to conceal the fact that my mission now, travelling around many european countries and talking to european parliaments, including the european parliament, is to convince each and every one of you that ukraine is worthy of being granted candidate status for the european union. we are clearly aware that this is just candidate status. we are clearly aware and guarantee that we – having received this impetus, this political message – are prepared to work further, quickly and qualitatively, as we did when we were filling in the survey for candidacy status for the european union. however, this is a very important impetus for us, the ukrainian people. it is very important for the ukrainian people to hear this powerful message from europe, the essence of which is that what you are doing is not in vain. we see that you are fighting and are, therefore, friends. if on 24 june, we do not get this message, then this will be the message that putin will get, and he will clearly understand that he can go forward entirely without punishment. therefore, i am asking you: let us do everything possible so that we see a watershed on 24 june – an important day for us and our great joint victory. we also ask you to exert additional pressure on the russian federation, first and foremost through sanctions. it is very difficult to stop a war that we are sponsoring. i would like to thank you for supporting all sanction packages. however, if the war is continuing, then perhaps more has to be done so that the war becomes unbearable and impossible for putin, so that he stops because he does not have the funds to fund his war. i understand that sometimes it is becoming a huge burden on the budgets of your countries, but believe me that if we do not do this, the price of defeat will be much higher. we have to do everything possible to stop this war economically as well. dear friends, i would like to address you as one parliamentarian to other parliamentarians. you are the representatives of a 500 million—strong, great european nation. you represent various parties; you represent europe. i appeal to you with a request: ukraine is ready and prepared to stand on god for our common values, common principles and common prospects, because ukrainians today are fighting for them on the battlefield. i therefore implore you – let us do everything together so that we can add, in pen, to this new history that ukraine is writing with its blood that ukraine is a candidate for the european union. dear friends, i sincerely believe that the european union will approve this historic decision in favour of this unity, this solidarity and the fact that we see our future similarly; we see our values similarly. dear colleagues, our unity is the motivation for us. our unity is the proof for them that we are united and that we will always be united. dear colleagues, only unity today can be the guarantee of our common peace. i am truly grateful to you and to your peoples. i am truly grateful to all those who fight together with ukraine. glory to ukraine and glory to the great and united europe! (the house rose and accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
thank you so much, dear ruslan, thank you. as you can see from the very long standing ovation that you received, this parliament stands with you. we stand with ukraine and we will not stop until ukraine wins. (the sitting was suspended at 12.02) ⁂ (ceremony: presentation of the lux audience award)
dear colleagues, can i ask you to take your seats for what will be a substantive and a substantial voting session that we have? (the sitting resumed at 12.34)
i just wanted to inform you before we start, dear colleagues, that we have just received word of an incident in berlin where a car has reportedly hit a crowd of people. at least one person has lost their life and some 30 others are injured. so while we wait for more information and details, i wanted, on behalf of the european parliament, to say that our thoughts are with the loved ones of the person killed and with all the survivors. we will keep you updated with the information as we receive it.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details relating to the vote: see minutes)
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, we ask for a three-minute break without leaving the chamber, as my group needs to make one last consultation to determine the final vote. (the sitting was suspended for a moment)
rapporteur. – madam president, of course, it’s a bad day for the european parliament when you see this. (mixed reactions)please calm down colleagues. i think it’s a shame, like in many occasions in this report, that the far right and the socialists and the greens voted together. we are now giving a lot of responsibility to the european council. the council will be definitely earlier than the european parliament, and that will reduce our influence. but we have the possibility, dear colleagues, we have the possibility to save the thing if everybody thinks twice. i look at ecr. you succeeded with a lot of votes, but still you voted against. i don’t see an explanation here. i look at the greens and the s&d. you voted against, even though all the compromises that we made at any stage where epp was a part – hello, calm down – we have succeeded. but those points where you thought that ‘a narrow majority with four votes, in the end we can dominate the parliament’, you lost! (mixed reactions)calm down, please. so democracy means to respect the parliament and to have a reduction of the damage. a reduction of the damage, to give it a second trial. and all those that voted against today can think twice. i would ask to refer it back to committee. please don’t kill the ets. vote for bringing it back to committee to have a second thought.
ok, dear colleagues we have a request by the rapporteur on whether this file is referred back to committee. (mixed reactions)colleagues, it is the rapporteur’s right to request this. we gave you all your time to reflect, you voted and now we have a request as to whether you want to reconsider this back in committee. i will ask you to vote by roll call to refer back to committee. (the house approved referral back to committee for reconsideration)
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would like to address my colleagues and in particular the rapporteur, mr liese. i can hear his frustration. and as curious as it may seem, i share it. i remember that at the beginning of the consideration of this package adjustment to objective 55 in the european parliament, i proposed on many occasions that the pro-european political groups in this parliament should work together in a structured way precisely to avoid this kind of scenario. and what i have found, my message is very simple: if you want strong pro-european majorities, strong pro-climate majorities, they are built and not improvised. so we're willing to work with you to make that happen.
dear colleagues, a number of group leaders have asked to be given the floor. manfred weber first, please, and then stéphane, but quickly we have more files to vote on.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, philippe, i really respect you very much, you know this. i respect everyone. but sorry, ‘pro—european majorities in this chamber’ does not automatically mean the green and socialist majority in this chamber. let me be clear on this. (loud applause)that’s why we voted today on content and there was a majority in this chamber, clearly expressed by the chamber. i tell you that at the end of the vote, when we had the chance to give the green light to the start of the trilogue, it is a reality in this house that the socialists, greens and left voted together with the far right against the proposal of the majority of this parliament. that’s a reality. don’t change the history, that’s not fair. (loud applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, first of all, i think it is important and good that we lower emotions and tension. politics is about heart, but also about calm. we shall return to work from the committee to try to build a common, coherent position. and please, let's not cheat on the loner. the socialist group voted against because there was a majority on certain subjects which some of them had brought out with amendments by the far right. that is why we had to vote against it. you can't ask the far right to vote down ambitions and then ask us to pass that. so let's be consistent here.
so, can we go to the next vote? we were doing well with time, but now it’s all over with our schedule.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, i think we all know that the ets and the social climate fund are closely interlinked. we also voted accordingly in this report. since for the moment we have referred back to committee the ets report, i would propose on the basis of rule 200(4) that we postpone the final vote on the social climate fund until, hopefully very soon, we also have an agreement on ets. i have the impression that there is a will to resolve this. i also have the impression that the outstanding issues on ets are more limited than some might think. so let’s get to work. let’s keep treating this as a package and postpone the final vote on the social climate fund.
so you are asking for an adjournment of the vote for the next report, mr chahim? to be sure. are you asking to postpone the vote on your report?
i see that mr canfin would like to react.
president of the committee on the environment. madam president, as chairman of the committee on the environment, which is responsible for the three texts we have been discussing: the seqe, the social climate fund and the carbon adjustment mechanism at the frontiers, i can say that these three texts are linked. so if we refer the seqe back to committee and we have an agreement which is different from the one we have submitted to you today, we must be able to transfer that agreement both into esther de lange's text on the social climate fund and into mohamed chahim's text on the macf. otherwise parliament will vote incoherently. we must send the three texts back to committee at the same time so that we can return to the plenary with, i hope, a broad and consistent majority for this parliament and for the climate.
so this would be under rule 198 of the rules of procedure. i put this decision to a vote. who is in favour? who is against? who abstains? ok, that is adopted.
but now the question is, do we vote on ms glavak’s reports? can i just... while you are thinking about what to do... oh we don’t go home! it’s wednesday! but i need to know whether we vote on ms glavak’s reports. but while you are thinking, i would really like to thank the services who have worked day and night to prepare the voting lists which we are not voting on. so i need to ask the question as to whether we vote the last two reports. ok. so who’s going to take the floor on this? ms glavak, as the rapporteur for the next two files? can i give you the floor sunčana? go ahead.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, i think we can go with these two reports, if you agree. yes? so we have two reports. so, madam president, i think we can continue with this.
président de la commission de l'environnement. – madam president, so again i think we all share the fact that we need to vote consistent text. these ones, the two on aviation and corsia, are a package which is not connected to three first texts. so the rapporteur and the negotiating team agrees on the fact that we can go ahead and proceed today with these two texts on corsia ets aviation that are disconnected of substance from the three texts that we parked and sent back to envi.
okay so we vote on the glavak reports. i ask vice-president wieland to take the votes on this.
rapporteur. – mr president, according to rule 59(4) of the rules of procedure, i would like to request that the file to be referred back to the committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi) for interinstitutional negotiations, in accordance with rules 60 and 74 of the rules of procedure. thank you very much, colleagues, for your cooperation. it’s a small piece of goodwill for today, but it’s not good enough. you know that.
rapporteur. – mr president, i want to just say i’m very happy we can start to enter into institutional negotiations. so if you are in favour, thank you so much for that.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 2.16 p.m.)
the competent french authorities have addressed two requests to the president for the waiver of parliamentary immunity. the first concerns mrs nadine morano, in the context of a judicial inquiry procedure initiated by the public prosecutor of the republic of marseille, and the second concerns mr nicolas bay, in the context of a preliminary inquiry initiated by the public prosecutor of the republic of évreux. the president also received a request from the competent german authorities for the waiver of parliamentary immunity in connection with the opening of an investigation by the berlin prosecutor general against mr nicolaus fest. the rules of procedure provide that these requests are to be referred to the committee on legal affairs, which is the committee responsible for the subject.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted have been distributed. is there any comment? the minutes are approved.
the debate on topical issues follows. i have received a proposal from the commission on attracting skills and talent to the european union, in particular talent attraction partnerships with north african countries (2022/2706 ((rsp)). i would remind you that there will be no catch-the-eye procedures or 'blue card' questions in this debate. i would remind you that the seats are vacant, except for the first two rows allocated to the heads of the political groups. i would also like to remind you that speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the central platform, except for spontaneous requests to speak on points of order. i give the floor to the author of the request, bernhard zimniok.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, let me start with some facts and figures. every year between two and three million people come to the eu legally, in contrast to somewhere between 125 000 to 200 000 irregular arrivals. i think we have seen during the pandemic that 13% of frontline workers – i’m talking about doctors, nurses, drivers – were migrants. so it’s one in eight. legal migration has a positive impact because it gives migrants opportunities to improve their lives. it provides skilled workers for host countries, and it’s boosting the economy for all. to recover from covid our economies, indeed, were in dire need of new workers for tourism, hospitality, the it sector, health and logistics. all of them are sectors with structural shortages. the eu is welcoming the refugees fleeing from the war in ukraine, but this does not preclude the need for a sustainable and common approach to labour migration to address the eu skills needs in the long term. while we need more workers in the eu, we are fewer and fewer of an working age. in 50 years, the eu’s working—age population will decline from 65% to 55%. parliament has been vocal through different resolutions and debates in urging the commission to take action on legal migration. you asked us for ambition and we replied with ambition, but also with pragmatism and vision. with our package, we propose a full set of legal, operational and forward—looking actions. to start, we suggest to revise the long—term residence directive and the single permit directive to attract new talent, to improve the eu’s appeal in the global competition for talent, and to simplify admission procedures. we also propose to set up an eu—wide matching platform – the eu talent pool – to improve international recruitment, to match eu employers with talent. as a first step, we are launching a talent pool pilot to map the skills of refugees from ukraine to help them integrate. legal migration is essential for our economy and plays an important role in our migration management, and is central to the comprehensive and mutually beneficial partnerships we are building with key countries of origin and transit. reducing irregular migration paves the way to step up regular migration. by the end of this year, the commission intends to launch tailor—made talent partnerships with three key partners – with tunisia, egypt and morocco. the partnerships must be a win-win for all. they will allow transforming the risk of brain drain into brain gain. they will help identify priority sectors for skills that support the socio—economic development of member states and partner countries, and provide new training and work experience in the eu or countries of origin. we invite member states to identify economic sectors of mutual interest and fully involve the social partners, unions and employers. we hope that these three talent partnerships will pave the way for others in the near future. for the next steps we see three avenues for further action: care, youth and innovation. we are launching studies on long—term care and youth mobility, and we are discussing with the member states an eu scheme for innovative entrepreneurs and this autumn will organise a high—level event to continue discussing with you and the member states how to implement these proposals and make them a reality on the ground.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, europe is a rapidly aging continent: our working population is shrinking and will continue to shrink in the foreseeable future. and we already see today all over europe that employers are faced with significant labour shortages. so it’s good that also at the european level, we look for innovative ways to increase the attractiveness of our union to talent from third countries. and, yes, it could also help us creating effective partnerships with third countries on the external dimension of migration. and this is crucial, as we all know, in our wider efforts on the pact of migration. there are two principles that should be leading, in my opinion. first, that it is, and it should remain the sole competence of the individual member state to decide on labour migration from third countries, taking into consideration the very specific circumstances of the different national labour markets. and at the european level we need to make sure that there are no loopholes to circumvent this principle. and i am particularly concerned about intra—eu posting of third country nationals in this regard. second principle: focusing on attracting talents from third countries must never come at the expense of our efforts to activate our own citizens that are currently not in employment. labour migration can be a part of the solution, but it can never be the only solution. not when 14% of our european youth is still facing unemployment, not when people are over the age of 55 that want to work still have huge difficulties to find employment, not with the current labour shortages and not when we stumble at the moment, as in my country, from one scandal to the next, when it comes to housing or working conditions for labour migrants that are already in the eu. yes, employers are in need of workers, and we need to help them. but they also need to make an effort themselves to go the extra mile to employ people that want to work but need a little bit of help. in a social market economy, we can’t only always focus on the quickest, the easiest or the cheapest solution; we need a long—term solution that puts human dignity in the centre.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i must confess that i personally feel uncomfortable with this title how to attract skills and talent to europe? other not uncomfortable, as mr zimniok said, because personally i have no difficulty in having an african colleague at my side who can actually share a number of things and values which are universal values, and which are not your values specifically, mr zimniok, but which are values which we share here today in europe, which are the values of solidarity and dignity. so having an african next to me is absolutely no problem. but this proposal suggests that, since we want to attract the skills and talents, people who do not have these talents and qualifications will be the unwelcome ones in europe, and that is not the message we want to give to these countries. it also gives the impression that there is a mixture between the legislation on the protection we owe to a certain number of people, because they are threatened, and the question of residence. when you're threatened, it's not about talent or qualifications. we're under threat, we need to be protected. it also suggests that we would drain these countries of their skills and talents. and again, there would be a problem because, if there were no such talents in these countries, well, they would be even more in trouble and there would be even more migration. so this proposal is a difficult one in relation to the objectives it can have. one last thing. when i hear that mr várhelyi is going to tunisia and making agreements with tunisia conditional on the conclusion of readmission agreements, i also find this conditionality problematic, where it is said that i take one, you take one. there is a difficulty here too. so i think it is necessary to review the proposal as it has been tabled.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a very important institution in the european union for a long time. once again, the european commission is promoting its absolute immigration ideology and encouraging the submersion of our european nations. the pretext this time is to attract talent from abroad, especially from north africa. but what talents ? the ones we saw at the stade de france wreaking havoc at the champions league final a few days ago? the ones who fill our prisons, empty our social security checks and make up the hit parade of terrorism? no, thank you. attracting talent that will keep downward pressure on wages, that will remain in europe permanently and that will swell an already saturated labour market? no, thank you too. attracting talent that will deprive developing countries of the technicians and managers essential to their development and that will maintain the appeal of these countries to europe? no, thank you. with globalists, chosen immigration always turns into forced immigration. we say no to ideology masked by sordid commercial logic. yes, we support training agreements. yes, we support temporary work visas, but our priority will always be on the side of our people. before we recruit foreign talent, let's try to preserve our own.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the working population is ageing and declining rapidly across the european union. according to the commission, the working age population will decline by up to 15% by 2070. in addition, the labour market is already experiencing labour shortages in various sectors, including healthcare and it. moreover, the transition to a green and digitally advanced economy requires additional labour and new skills. attracting talent is therefore essential to maintain the european union's ambitious development path. in this context, i welcome the new proposals from the european commission; the eu talent partnership and the eu talent pool pilot initiative for ukraine. facilitating access to the eu labour market for people fleeing russian aggression is crucial at this time and i am pleased that my country, poland, is already making far-reaching facilitations for our neighbours. in view of the urgent needs of refugees, this pan-european platform union talent pool should be implemented as soon as possible in order to match the skills and qualifications of ukrainians under temporary protection to potential employers across the union. in conclusion, i am delighted that my country will be hosting europe's largest vocational and skills training event next year - euro skills 2023. i am convinced that these initiatives will strengthen the single market and the resilience of our economy.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, we all have the right to emigrate and improve our personal and economic situation, especially in circumstances of vulnerability or risk to our lives or those of our family members. all, absolutely all people are subjects of human and social rights and this cannot be ignored for reasons of race, religion, culture or class. it is unacceptable that the approach proposed to us should be to allow the entry into the union of third-country nationals who have accredited professional or academic profiles of european interest. i would like to say that this aspect is already covered by the blue card directive which this parliament recently adopted; it is so recent that there has not yet been time to assess its effectiveness. i would like to underline the irony of the origin of these racist court initiatives that are before us. i would like to recall the origins of european emigration not so long ago: from the nordic countries, from eastern europe, from the southern countries, to the united states, south america, australia, africa. for exactly the same reasons as those who come from places where war, hunger or lack of human dignity are a daily reality. we cannot be so unworthy as to deny the right to emigrate and to be welcomed which was granted to millions of europeans long ago. i would also recommend that if you are concerned about attracting north african talent to europe, you should start by recognising the sahrawi arab democratic republic so that the sahrawis can also gain access to the european labour market.
mr president, i would like to thank vice-president maroš šefčovič and his team and, of course, the rapporteur for this report, mr paulo rangel, and the other members of the negotiating team for this excellent report, which is also very timely, as has been said. tomorrow we shall also vote on the resolution which we have negotiated together to activate article 48, which should lead us - we hope so, with the support of at least a majority of 14 member states in the european council - to the convention and to the reform of the treaties. and, indeed, as the vice-president has said, it is being put into effect, there is already a certain right of legislative initiative of the indirect parliament, in so far as the commission has actually taken this commitment to present legislative proposals on the basis of our own-initiative reports. but we must certainly go further and that will require the reform of our treaty. why would you do that? because if we want - as i believe the vast majority here do - a full european democracy, we must strengthen the european parliament, which is precisely the house which we directly elect by the citizens in the elections to the european parliament. in this sense, if we look at the historical trajectory of the european parliament - let us not forget that it started as a consultative assembly, which did not approve draft laws and initially only approved the budget - then the next step in this historical evolution is precisely what paulo rangel has proposed: that it has its own right of legislative initiative. this is particularly important in view of the recovery plan, which also raises the democratic dilemma of who approves the european union's debt issues and who approves the european union's own resources.
mr president, the european parliament is the only institution of the european union whose members are elected by direct suffrage. however, the areas in which the right of initiative can be exercised are extremely limited and show an imbalance between the various authorities which must be corrected. the council refuses to negotiate the right of inquiry, has greater legislative capacity - despite representing national interests rather than those of the union as a whole - and often blocks parliamentary progress. those who want to return to the nation state should take note of this detail. the fact is that parliament is the european institution by definition, because it is the seat of the body and the voice of the citizens. and it's also the most deliberative space and today the most progressive. it would deserve to have a direct and real legislative capacity. the states have already been overtaken by the very measure of things. the challenges ahead call for decentralization and federalism, for different coordinated political bodies among which decision-making powers are distributed. today, more than ever, the european parliament's diversity, plurality and nuanced voice are essential.
madam president, 86 million women in the united states may have their right to abortion restricted: 26 states are threatening to introduce insane fetal-lactation laws, and some already provide for a lucrative incentive for whistleblowers and prison sentences for those who do not comply; in these states there will be no funding to guarantee sexual and reproductive rights, because the supreme court's ruling must be accompanied by the global gag law and the helms amendment, so poverty will be an aggravating factor. a global war on women is being waged and the sicariado is, in many cases, a judicial power out of control or subject to the directives of authoritarian governments. yesterday it was poland; today, the united states; tomorrow, spain. it's clear that if we don't armor ourselves, the handmaid's tale will be a self-fulfilling prophecy. we must incorporate the right to abortion in our constitutions, as has been done in chile, and also in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, to distinguish it clearly from the right to health. we feminists are the great defenders of life, but not of the life of slavery and submission that the masters and ladies of misogyny and hatred want to assign to us. listen to the women who have been forced to give birth to their rapists' children. they're interested in children, but only before they're born. you know no woman will be yours. (the speaker agrees to reply to an intervention under the 'blue card' procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. i am not aware that these women receive funding for abortion; rather, they have difficulty in having an abortion, as we already know; especially in public health, because many doctors object, without having the right to object any health institution as a whole. many of them have to travel many kilometers to get an abortion - something they are recognized as having a right to - so they do not receive funding for abortion, but rather have difficulties. and of course i agree that women who want to have children should be helped to have them: that is what social policies are for, which your party - as you know, mrs de la pisa carrión - often makes difficult, because in fact it is you who are cutting social policies in the community of madrid and elsewhere.
the answer is 'blue card'. the right to abortion is free when it can be exercised, and it cannot be exercised in a lot of public hospitals because, i insist, in most of them or in many of them conscientious objection is practiced which is clearly illegal, as is known and has been discovered for a long time, so that most of these women have to be referred to private centers where they have to pay for abortion.
madam president, unsafe abortions account for almost half of the total and are the leading cause of maternal death. if the supreme court overturns the 1973 ruling guaranteeing the right to abortion in the united states, we would be facing one of the most important setbacks in our sexual and reproductive rights, and that would have an effect on the whole world, because let us not forget that we are facing a global attack that has names and surnames; in the united states, alliance defending freedom or federalist society, but they also have names here in europe: ordo iuris in poland; hazteoir in spain, or la manif pour tous in france, entities funded by ultra-catholic organizations and coordinated globally for the sole purpose of imposing their reactionary agenda; we will not allow it. illegal abortion does not end abortions, it only makes them more deadly: what is at stake here is not the moral or religious values of a few with a lot of power, what is at stake here is our lives, and this is not to be played with.
madam president, bad news: it is not enough to win rights on paper, we must remain permanently mobilized, and the right to abortion was protected for fifty years in the united states, guaranteeing that women could decide on their bodies in a legal and safe way; the sentence that is at risk today protected life, as life protects health or public education, as life is defended by the new law on sexual and reproductive health, the new abortion law in spain, expanding women's rights. however, we see that there are very organized minorities maneuvering in the shadows to limit our rights trying to impose their reactionary agenda, in the same way that on monday vox, the far right, tried to hijack this debate and take it out of the plenary: as always, what grown up to cut rights, but what servile with the powerful. of course, have no doubt, feminists, from all corners of the world, will continue to mobilize and legislate to defend our bodies and life, a life worth living.
madam president, the us supreme court is not only affecting women and girls in the us; it’s affecting the whole world. it’s affecting us. it’s about human rights, bodily autonomy, liberty and freedom. despite many decades of progress, sexual and reproductive rights still remain out of reach for many across the world. and after this potential overturn in the us, it means around 170 million more. we have to face discrimination and inequality in the implementation of sexual and reproductive rights, persist, extend and intensify. and that’s unacceptable. and it should be unacceptable for all of us in the european parliament. also within the european union, we are facing alarming developments and steps backwards regarding fundamental rights for women and other groups like lgbtiq, people of colour, immigrants and refugees. and we say clearly today: abortion must be safe, it must be legal, it must be affordable, and it must be available. abortion is a basic healthcare, and the world health organization guidelines are very clear: access to abortion is protected, and it has to be respected by anyone, anywhere and anytime.
madam president, we women have never been granted our rights without having to claim them and fight hard for them. in 2022 we still have to fight for the recognition of our fundamental rights and around the world we continue to be confronted by those who insist on not wanting to see our human rights, not seeing us as worthy of fundamental rights, equally unshakable, and by those who insist on systematically attacking our rights and, very particularly, sexual and reproductive rights. we cannot tolerate this, either in the united states or in the european union or anywhere else in the world. our bodies, our rights, our choice. we therefore call for the safeguarding of the right to safe and legal abortion in the united states or anywhere in the world, the decriminalization of abortion, the guarantee of access to safe and free sexual and reproductive health services for all women and girls, in accordance with the internationally protected human rights of women. we will continue to fight, yes, until it is necessary. we will always be in solidarity.
madam president, commissioner, i want to take the minute and a half i have to speak to the american people and sincerely apologize to them, apologize for the embarrassing spectacle we are giving here in the european parliament by organising a debate to criticize a decision by an independent tribunal on the basis of a leak about a future judgment, after we want to present ourselves as the great defenders of the rule of law. we are the great guarantor of the rule of law and we have the luxury of putting pressure on a court of a democracy over a decision made by those judges. what a shame! what a shame! it is appalling how ideologized this parliament is, which takes advantage of any situation, any debate, to bring it into the fray of ideological debate, without respecting the basic foundations of the independence and sovereignty of a state like the united states of america. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote.
madam president, it is precisely in the united states - the 'collateral of democracy and individual freedoms' - that a basic human right such as women's sexual and reproductive rights is about to be annulled, alluding to legal causes, but especially because of the long hand of the anti-gender and anti-women movements that are reaching the supreme court of the united states and also, unfortunately, europe. this is what is happening in poland, precisely with a far-right government controlled by intolerant ultra-catholic movements, the same ones that in my country, spain, are allies of vox, such as hazteoir, which have just called for a demonstration in madrid against a recent modification of the abortion law and where, curiously, part of the catholic hierarchy has already confirmed its attendance, the same one that last weekend tried to interfere in the next andalusian elections on 19 june by expressly asking for a vote against the left parties. the enemies of women's rights have never left: they have been weaving their anti-gender strategy for years and are waging a global battle, and we have them here, in this parliament, where the far right is really reaching more and more places, and in my own country, entering governments thanks to the people's party having opened the doors to them.
madam president, dear colleagues, we have raised many times our concerns and concrete cases in our previous resolutions on china. for the first time, we have actual answers and police evidence. thanks to the leaked police files, we know concrete cases that convict beijing of systematic repression and inhuman practices against uyghur. looking through 2 844 images of detained persons, we see unjustified persecution solely based on being uyghur. their systematic oppression amount to crimes against humanity and genocide. let me share a quote from the leaked plan in case of escape, ‘if trainees fail to comply, the armed police officers can fire warning shots. if trainees refuse to stop and continue to escape, the armed police officers shoot them dead.’ terrible practices. that’s why the european parliament calls upon the eu and its member states to take all necessary steps to push china to end the breaching of human rights. and we ask: ensure responsibility for these crimes.
madam president, please! ladies and gentlemen! the massive leak of police files has revealed the brutal face of the chinese regime. according to the united nations, up to half a million men, women, and teenagers from the muslim uighur minority may have been sent to mass internment camps. the media reports and photos speak for themselves. the systematic human rights violations and the ruthless treatment of uighurs can no longer be denied. we've been taking action against the persecution of uighurs for a long time. the european parliament has already adopted two resolutions on the issue, and the european union has imposed sanctions on regime officials over systemic repression. but as long as china continues to persecute entire communities, we must continue this effort. in the eu-china relationship, we need to set clear, unbreakable boundaries. the european union should regularly raise this issue in its human rights dialogue with china and strongly demand the release of the detained uighurs. we also need to respond more forcefully and put pressure on the chinese authorities in the international arena. we should work closely with the un and our partners on this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we in the european parliament have the courage to tackle this issue today, but let us ask ourselves what the member states of the european union are doing. italy is doing nothing. italy has always denied the existence of this problem. in 2015, the then foreign minister gentiloni, who is now a commissioner of the european union, signed a cooperation and patrol agreement with china, and a subsequent agreement in 2017 was signed by the deputy minister of the interior. the constant collaboration with the chinese police, which then found its ultimate expression in the arrest of the president of the uyghur parliament, which took place inside the senate, just at the entrance to the italian senate. we also think that there is no italian newspaper that is engaged in the activity of decrypting files. we must therefore ask ourselves what individual european states are doing to avoid what is happening in this region of china.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i don’t need to remind this house about the eu’s persistent and grave concerns about the human rights situation in china, notably the systemic repression of uyghurs in xinjiang. the commission shares your concerns as expressed in several parliamentary resolutions already adopted. the commission also welcomes the award of the 2019 sakharov prize to ilham tohti. while we all knew about the gravity of all human rights violations in xinjiang, the xinjiang police files add to the evidence reports and voices we hear from the ground. the leaked speeches, images, documents and spreadsheets shed new light on the brutal methods used by the chinese government, seriously eroding the cultural and religious identity of the uyghur people, justifying mass-scale and indiscriminate actions under the guise of the fight against terrorism. the publication of these documents coincided with a visit of united nations high commissioner for human rights michelle bachelet to china. we find it highly regrettable that the chinese authorities did not provide full and unfettered access to high commissioner bachelet. while the high commissioner expressed that the visit was not of an investigative nature, she also clarified that she has been unable to assess the full scale of political re-education camps in xinjiang. the eu also deplores that her engagement with independent civil society organisations and human rights defenders was limited and somehow supervised. the visit has been further discussed today in geneva as part of the strategic dialogue on human rights between the eu and the office of the high commissioner, co-chaired by eamon gilmore, the eu special representative for human rights, and high commissioner bachelet. this visit and the release of the xinjiang police files call for the release, as a matter of absolute priority, of the remote monitoring report on the human rights situation in xinjiang prepared by the united nations through the office. let me assure you that the eu will continue to speak out against human rights violations occurring across china. we will also continue to convey our concerns to the chinese leadership. in doing so, we will always make it clear that the eu will not compromise on human rights.
the rule of law is based on the separation of powers, which is totally denied in nicaragua. ortega has subverted the constitutional order to use his judicial power as a repressive weapon against those who express disagreement with his regime. today there are hundreds of political prisoners in that country, many detained and sentenced to disproportionate sentences after the last wave in the framework of the general elections. most of them are social leaders, politicians, students, human rights defenders, journalists. in addition, some 400 ngos have been stripped of their legal personality, forcing them to close. vicious judges and prosecutors who are subservient to the ortega murillos have systematically violated the procedural guarantees, becoming accomplices of the dictatorship and violators of human rights. today we ask that their names be included in the list of those sanctioned by our european union. the victims of that regime deserve it.
author. madam president, today we are sending a clear message: the regime of daniel ortega is a dictatorship that has destroyed the rule of law. it continues to systematically violate human rights, imprisoning opponents, members of ngos, intellectuals, students and journalists with the connivance of the judiciary. more than 400 organizations can no longer work in the country. thousands of nicaraguans have fled into exile. the academy of the language has been dissolved, in a decision unprecedented on the continent and in the spanish-speaking world. the ortega regime, which tramples on human rights, which sits alongside russia and supports it in all its aggressions against third countries, cannot have any relations with the european union. we have to suspend our agreement with the dictatorship that binds nicaragua now.
author. madam president, nicaraguans are living in a permanent, terrible nightmare, in which the repression of recent years has reached absolutely unprecedented levels. and it has done so because the regime feels it can do it; it feels it can and it has that impunity that it feels, and that impunity that it feels because it feels protected. its judges commit barbaric acts and perpetrate colossal, immense iniquities against all opponents and dissenters. and they do it because they have that impunity. and that impunity is because the nicaraguan regime has protection. he has the protection of russia, of course, but he has the protection of the são paulo forum and the puebla group. these two multinationals of narco-communism are the ones who protect mr. ortega and so he feels capable of doing what he does, like maduro in venezuela, like diaz-canel in cuba. that's the way ortega is. that is why we must end this regime, with a total blockade.
madam president, mr commissioner, in recent months we have witnessed the clear use of the judiciary as a tool of repression in nicaragua: a new attempt at repression by the ortega regime exclusively against an opposition which has always been peaceful. nicaraguan courts have been dedicated to passing absolutely disproportionate sentences against political prisoners in processes that are corrupt, lack transparency and offer zero guarantees to the accused; therefore, this resolution - and this is what we have to focus on - calls for sanctions against judges, since they are agents of repression, they are helping ortega with that repression. today, more than 180 people are still being arbitrarily detained, deprived of their fundamental rights, and the european union must stand with the nicaraguans in calling for an end to the use of cruel and inhuman treatment against detainees and their families, and we demand the release, of course unconditionally, of all these political prisoners and prisoners.
madam president, this debate shows the obsession that some sections of this parliament have with the governments and democratic and progressive movements in latin america. this has always been the case from the extreme right, especially the spanish one, but it is very sad to see groups that consider themselves democratic, and even some progressive, support a resolution promoted by vox, which acts as if latin america is still a spanish colony and that stigmatizes any leftist government in latin america as a dictatorship. nicaragua, cuba, venezuela, the são paulo forum, the puebla group and all the organizations you insult in this pamphlet will continue to work for the sovereignty of the latin american peoples and for their peoples to be the owners of their destinies and their resources. you can continue to work for the boss, the same one who wanted to exclude these countries from the summit of the americas and who will be seen there only with a group of palm trees, but know that there are peoples who know what it is to be a colony and they will never be one again.
mr president, i thank in particular the colleagues who have drawn up this important resolution, which has my full support, supported by five groups in this house. in the year 1950, on may 9th, the schuman declaration was known. six european countries were pooling coal and steel. and that declaration said twice, not just once, that this european coal and steel community was the first step towards establishing a european federation. and that promise has not been fully fulfilled, although we have made great progress in federalising the european union. and now we have to take it one step further. why would you do that? because this is no longer, ladies and gentlemen, the world of the lisbon treaty. the treaty of lisbon was a phenomenal breakthrough. but let's compare today's circumstances with those of 2007. they're radically different: climate change, digitalization, china's role in the world, but also, more recently, the pandemic and putin's aggression against ukraine. we must therefore update our constitutional framework, improving decision-making, moving beyond unanimity, making parliament the centre of european political construction, but also adding new policies and new capacities to the treaty.
mr president, since the treaty of lisbon, the european union has been in a state of crisis after crisis. it is clear that things have been done very badly here and some of us see the mistakes, learn from them and seek to make amends. others, full of pride, are obsessed and persevere in errors and fail to recognize the obvious. the project of a federal europe leads us to be governed by a caste of ideologized and parasitic bureaucrats, oligarchs and ngos, which would destroy democracy, freedom and also a united europe. his idea of democracy from those 800 citizens at his fingertips. this 800 bürger, this is a joke. that 800 handpicked people are the ones who tell us how well things are going is a bad joke, it's a farce. nations must do together what they do best together and sovereignly the rest. health, education, justice should not be european competence, and those who want to make new treaties or a convention for the revision of treaties to trample on national sovereignty are only inviting countries that want to remain sovereign to take the path of the united kingdom, which has not sunk and is enjoying itself in what is another situation, out of here unfortunately, but another situation that is by no means worse than the one we have.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a 'blue card' intervention. mrs pereira, i have decided to address this question to you because you are a woman of the left, we come from the same tradition. the left has always been internationalist, it has never been a defender of the nation state; i have never seen it in the writings of marx or engels. however, you have made a firm defence of the veto here, of national sovereignty as the paradigm of political action. it's really incomprehensible to me.
mr president, any country that wants to be part of the european project can do so through the treaty on european union and for that it must meet the copenhagen criteria on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. enlargement was a dead issue. it has departed from the expectations of peoples like albania and north macedonia: 13 and 18 years without opening accession negotiations. we need to analyse where we are, but above all we need an honest debate on what we want to be, whether to continue a purely economic union or to move towards greater political integration and which: democratic values, the rule of law, labour rights, the fight against corruption, commitment to social europe... there are no shortcuts. all countries, such as ukraine, moldova and georgia, can access candidate status under the same procedure and under the same standards and at the same time. and, most importantly, we have a huge responsibility not to create false expectations among the people. we all know that the accession process is long, full of profound and necessary reforms, and that an invaded country like ukraine cannot exercise its sovereignty or decide its future freely. the european union needs a plan. strategic autonomy must not be a fancy word but a real constituent project.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, commissioner, in 2020 the european union was up to speed and faced an unprecedented health, economic and social crisis, conceived the next generation eu funds and the recovery and resilience mechanism as a unique opportunity to boost europe's recovery; this time leaving no one behind. it is now up to the member states to prove that they are up to the task by implementing their national reform plans approved by the commission. and as countries achieve the targets set in those plans, the commission must ensure that aid keeps coming. it is essential that it be carried out quickly, but this does not mean that there should be less control. the implementation of the recovery and resilience mechanism must be transparent, effective and rigorous, and requires monitoring and control mechanisms to ensure that money is used according to the rules and that not a single euro is lost through fraud or corruption. only then will we make the most of the recovery funds, achieve europe's green and digital transition and maintain citizens' trust. with these objectives in mind, parliament will continue to exercise democratic control over the mechanism to which we are entitled.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, it’s good to see mr gentiloni. two years ago, we had to shut down all our social and economic activity to fight this awful disease, and our workers and entrepreneurs wondered if they could make it through the shock. but this time, europe rose to the task. it had long been considered unthinkable for the european union to issue common joint debt. but it did this time. and many workers today have a job, thanks to the sure programme financed by the european union. and many businesses survived thanks to the liquidity provided by europe. and many workers will go back to work thanks to this recovery and resilience facility that we examine today. and it is precisely because issuing debt together is so unprecedented that we must succeed. the commission must ensure, mr gentiloni, that the recovery facility is used to make our economies stronger and more resilient, and that our citizens are freer and our values are respected. unfortunately, mr commissioner, the commission has sometimes come up short in this task. three examples: first, the commission gave the highest grades to most recovery plans on exactly the same old criteria, the same one in all of them, and the lower grade in most plans to the exact same other criteria. i don’t know, i’ve graded lots of exams and i’ve never seen that. second, amidst massive internal disagreement, the commission just a couple of weeks ago approved the polish recovery plan, taking at face value the promises – very deceptive promises, i’m afraid – of the polish government. and third, the commission has approved a change in the spanish pensions that reverses the reforms led by the european commission 10 years ago to make them sustainable. commissioner, we really understand the pressure that the commission, that you all are under. but for this recovery and resilience facility to succeed, the commission must do its job. we must make future generations of europeans proud of what we do here today.
president, nextgenerationeu, also known as the corona recovery fund, is a cigar from its own box for the netherlands. the core of the fund is the recovery and resilience facility, and since it was created in response to the coronavirus crisis, you'd think that money would go to health care, research and disease control. but what do the national recovery plans say? france receives eur 41 billion and uses the money to provide financial support to companies. there are also tax benefits for the french. italy gets 69 billion euros and uses it to insulate homes and to install high-speed internet. and the netherlands? we get 4.6 billion to spend on some offshore wind turbines and a lousy investment in nitrogen reduction, conditional on limiting the mortgage interest deduction and the self-employment deduction. the erf is not a crown fund. it is a redistribution fund and a prelude to a transfer union, and a high price for european solidarity paid by the dutch.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear friends, i remember when mff was initially proposed by the european commission we all said that never before in the history of european union our regions did not receive more investment than the current proposal. and then the covid came and we all embraced next generation eu. and i think next generation eu and rrf are the correct medicine to cure the situation that the union was back then. but as every good medicine, it has side effects. so one of the side effects that it caused was that the commission created an internal competition between rrf and operational programmes. in the result of that, rrf is running very well and is achieving good results, but operational programmes and partnership agreements are not approved and they don’t deliver. so what is the solution? in my point of view, first is that the european commission should promise a no-cut policy to the existing policies that we have, such as cohesion policy. and then the european parliament should have a say with a discharge on rrf.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteurs. it's a very good report, because in practice, the resilience and recovery mechanism, the key instrument for investment and reform, is the european union's message of solidarity to help citizens, but also companies, to mitigate the negative impact of the health crisis, but also everything that means crisis that happened as a result of russia's aggression in ukraine. of course we are greeting repowereu. it is a chance for the european union to ensure its energy independence, but, commissioner, i think that more flexibility is needed from the commission, so that you can give member states the opportunity to readjust their national recovery and resilience plans to be able to deal with these crises: inflation, price increases, the energy crisis.
madam president, commissioner, the recovery and resilience mechanism is a european union achievement, offering both the member states and the european institutions a new mechanism and a philosophy of solidarity based on recovery through upgrading and achieving the goals of the green and digital transformation. at national level, this innovation should be carried out through recovery and resilience plans. two elements are of the utmost importance for the effective implementation of the mechanism and the implementation report we are debating today emphasises them strongly. it's about partnership and synergy. partnership between public administration in the member states, local and regional authorities, the academic community, civil society, business and all concerned citizens. this is a key partnership for both the implementation and monitoring of the implementation of the plans. countries that ignore this partnership or deliberately ignore it are doomed to fail in the implementation of their plans. synergies are the second key element for the national plans, synergies with the national plans, energy and climate with the operational programmes supported by the structural funds with the national budget. we call on the european commission to be particularly strict in monitoring the application of these principles.
madam president, commissioner, in the future we will be judged by the speed and efficiency with which these funds were managed; we will be judged by whether, in this time of tremendous economic uncertainty, we were able to generate opportunities and growth. so now is the time to demand from member states a swift, effective and transparent implementation of these funds to ensure that they reach businesses, the self-employed and smes; that they reach families and the middle classes; and to ensure that reforms are carried out that help us to be more competitive and that, among other things, facilitate job creation, not reforms that serve as political pay for maintaining coalition governments. it is also time to tell you - the commission and the council - to be demanding in your assessments. i am particularly concerned about my country, spain, which is one of the biggest recipients of funds. we are not getting them into the production fabric, they are being implemented at a very slow pace, and the local authorities and the autonomous communities are not being counted on to implement this plan. neither spain nor any member state can miss this historic opportunity. let us therefore be demanding and stick to the standards and objectives we have set ourselves.
madam president, first of all, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on her outstanding work on this report on inclusion measures under erasmus+ 2014-2020 and thank her for including and developing the ideas that we, in the committee on petitions, put forward for inclusion in this report. first, to correct the unacceptable lack of reliable quantitative and qualitative data on the number of people with disabilities and people from vulnerable and under-represented groups accessing the opportunities offered by erasmus+. without this data, we cannot design good measures so that these people can actually participate fully in this programme. secondly, support the removal of physical, psychological, social, socioeconomic, linguistic and digital barriers that limit the educational mobility of the most vulnerable groups and prevent them from participating in the erasmus+ programme. third, urge the national agencies managing erasmus+ to designate specific inclusion and diversity agents to reach directly learners with special needs or fewer opportunities and ensure equal rights to prevent anyone from being unable to. in short, more data, fewer obstacles and more support equals more equal opportunities for all, so that the next erasmus+ is really more erasmus.
madam president, over the last four or five days, the navarre regional government has suffered historic fires, with more than 10 000 hectares affected. it has also happened, and on a larger scale, in the province of zamora. this is not something that is only happening in spain. across europe we see these effects of climate change, increasingly repetitive and with far greater consequences. the challenge therefore lies with the autonomous communities, the nation states, the national governments themselves and also the european union. the navarre government and the central government have today already stated that they will provide both regional and state aid to alleviate the damage, but this must also be done by the european institutions. i therefore want to ask the european union to update the solidarity fund, to lower its thresholds so that situations like these can also receive funding and help in our autonomous communities, in our regions, in europe, for this type of situation which is increasingly being repeated. it is not for nothing that farmers have stood at the foot of the canyon, risking their lives to stop this fire; so have the state security forces and corps, the firefighters and, above all, the neighbours of all the villages of navarre. the european union must therefore be able to cope with this and must also help the regions financially when they suffer such fires.
madam president, i find it regrettable that the commissioner has left and has not followed the discussion to the end, as he should have. the commission has already taken action to ensure that the european union's air transport policy is properly implemented. this is yet another obstacle to the operation of tap, jeopardizing its future, national interest and sovereignty, which results from an unacceptable imposition by the european commission to approve a restructuring plan detrimental to the interests of tap and the country. an imposition contrary to the company's needs, at a time when the operation can be recovered in conjunction with increased demand. once again, the european union's role in safeguarding the interests of multinationals is demonstrated. the defence of the country's interests and sovereignty requires another path that rejects the eu's impositions. what is needed is to provide more opportunities for tap's growth, which will ensure its visibility and the strategic contribution it can and should make to portugal's development and territorial cohesion.
madam president, dear colleagues, may i call your attention to the situation of basque students at higher schools sitting the final examination called the diplôme nationale du brevet taking place in the french international system tomorrow and the day after. students from département des pyrenées—atlantiques that got all their status in the basque language so far are being requested to take final examinations in the french language. their protest and claim for the final exams to be done in the basque language was attacked by a french police baton charge against the students, parents and teachers themselves. this behaviour by the french authorities is not up to the european standards of diversity and human rights protection. these students deserve to be treated as decent europeans that are doing their best to promote european diversity. the french republic should protect, and not bother, them because of their linguistic identity. so therefore i want to call, on the one hand, on the french authorities for these final examinations to finally be taken and corrected in basque with no objection at all and, on the other hand, on the commission as well to keep vigilant on the issue so the linguistic rights of basque students are protected in france.
mr president, poland, bulgaria, finland, the netherlands and denmark; now italy and france. we are facing a very serious situation and we are already aware that putin is using gas as a weapon of war. the head of the international energy agency has said: 'the closer we get to winter, the more we understand russia's intentions.' the need to ensure a minimum level of storage is crucial. the storage obligation corrects a market failure and public intervention is necessary to ensure security of supply. the agreement also required an exercise in accommodating the specificities of the member states, since not all of them start from the same circumstances, even those with good lng infrastructure. i would also like to send a message to certain political groups. what we have agreed here must be defended in the member states, just as we defend sanctions and must be aware of the consequences of war. but we also have to keep pushing forward with reforms, because the lack of gas also affects the electricity market and the price rules, which we will have to reform. finally, russia can no longer be a reliable supplier to the union. in addition to becoming independent from russia and from fossil fuels, we must continue to deepen the energy transition towards renewable energies that allow us greater independence. this is our challenge and we must continue to work on it.
thank you, ms daly. can i ask ms tardino whether she’s in favour of this counter-proposal?
(parliament rejected the request) president. – since the request has been rejected, the agenda remains unchanged. also on wednesday the id group has asked that the debate on the council and commission statements on ‘the relations of the russian government and diplomatic network with parties of extremist, populist, anti-european and certain other european political parties in the context of the war’, scheduled as the third item in the evening, be replaced by a debate on council and commission statements on ‘the commission’s use of external consultants’. i give the floor to jean-paul garraud to move the request.
(parliament rejected the request) president. – the ecr group has asked that a commission statement on ‘the political sentencing to 10 years of jeanine áñez, former president of bolivia’, with one round of political group speakers, be added as the second item in the morning, after the commission statement on ‘recent heatwaves and drought in the eu’. as a consequence, the sitting would start at 8.30. the debate would be wound up with a resolution, also to be voted on thursday. i give the floor to hermann tertsch to move the request.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, yes, we believe it is extremely urgent that we speak about the brutal mistreatment and injustice that a woman suffers for fulfilling her duty and the law: jeanine áñez, former interim president of bolivia, has been sentenced to ten years in prison in a trial that evo morales, former president himself, has acknowledged to have rigged previously. the bolivian regime is preparing other farcical trials for many opponents. even if we leave the resolution for september, it is a moral imperative to speak up now for áñez and others unjustly persecuted. áñez took over the interim presidency with the endorsement, many forget, of the organization of american states and the european union, in the midst of the crisis, after morales fled when his electoral fraud was discovered. áñez took over the presidency after the transition, organized elections, those elections were held, morales' party won with his candidate arce at the head and an impeccable transition of power was made. now he's in jail serving a ten-year sentence for a sham trial. we have to raise our voice for this woman who fights for freedom in latin america against the narcocommunism of the são paulo forum, headed by that evo morales we have there, by maduro and by so many others.
thank you, mr tertsch. just to clarify, do you want just the debate this week, or also the resolution?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we would like to have the resolution in september.
in writing. although there is good news on the subject from germany - where the ban on advertising abortion has recently been lifted, which is an important step in raising awareness and providing information on the subject - we also need to be very vigilant in the european union. we must fight for the inviolability of the rights of women and lgbtiq* people in all eu member states, every single day. in recent months, the european parliament has made several statements and adopted clear resolutions on freedom of choice and access to sexual and reproductive rights. a large majority of the european parliament is clearly opposed to any kind of ban or restriction on abortion. in the light of the recent scandalous overturning of the us supreme court's 1970s ruling on abortion access in the united states, we call on the european council to amend the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and add the right to safe and legal abortion. prohibitions do not stop abortions, but they do stop them being performed under dangerous circumstances. it is important to fight sexual violence vigorously, to provide comprehensive, age-appropriate sex education for all, and to provide safe and affordable contraceptives!
member of the commission. – madam president, my thanks go to parliament for organising this important debate. my thoughts today are with the people who died in melilla, with those who were injured and with their families. i never forget the images of the dead and living. loss of life at the european border is unacceptable. violence at our eu border is unacceptable. the facts, as we know today are that on friday, 24 june, up to 2 500 people tried to force their way into spain. twenty-three migrants confirmed dead, but i am afraid there might be even more casualties, a lot more injured. not only migrants, also a high number of law enforcement officers, who were put under great pressure. we also know 134 people arrived in the melilla migration centre in spain, mostly from sudan. many of them are young, possibly minors. most have stated their intention to apply for asylum. it’s very difficult to know exactly what happened on that black friday. but what we know for now is that the migrants tried to cross at a border crossing in nador reserved for local residents. this crossing has four narrow corridors. a large crowd entered at once, causing a stampede, crushing many of these young men and boys to death. others fell to their deaths from a six metre high wall. it’s unacceptable that people try to force themselves across the eu border using violent means, and it’s unacceptable that people die in this way at our eu border. the priority is now to provide medical care and fully establish the facts. i strongly support calls by the united nations and the african union for investigations into this tragic loss of life. i welcome that in the meantime the spanish public prosecutor is carrying out an investigation. and in morocco, the national human rights commission has launched an information mission. what we can say in general is that 99% of irregular migrants use smugglers. most migrants in morocco have been smuggled. it seems those involved in the incident were smuggled mainly from sudan through libya and algeria, through a desert that can be every bit as deadly as the mediterranean or atlantic, a desert where smugglers leave people to die. this is what i learned directly from people when i visited agadez in niger. smugglers take people’s money and dump them along the route and leave them to their fate, leaving them in a hopeless situation, where they might commit such desperate acts. the only way to manage migration to europe is to engage with partners outside europe along the routes. since the start of my mandate, i have been building and working on strong migration partnership with partner countries, countries of origin and transit and destination. in africa i have visited egypt, ethiopia, mauritania, niger, senegal, tunisia, morocco to build partnerships addressing the root causes of migration, so people don’t feel the need to risk their lives on dangerous journeys, and to improve possibilities for legal migration, and to fight the smugglers, raising awareness about the dangers and boosting law enforcement cooperation, and supporting partners in border management. upholding fundamental rights is key to all of these partnerships. morocco is a key strategic partner of the european union to manage migration and to fight smuggling. in this year alone, morocco prevented 26 000 irregular departures, one tenth of them saved at sea. we have a very good cooperation with spain and i am in close contact with the spanish government. i intend to engage with morocco further to discuss the tragic events in melilla and to further strengthen our comprehensive partnership on migration. in closing, let me say that, first, melilla showed once again that europe needs the pact on migration and asylum. we are making good progress. let’s get it adopted in full. second, in all situations, people must be treated with dignity and respect for fundamental rights. finally, melilla is an alarm call. more people will put their fate in the hands of smugglers and embark on desperate, dangerous journeys. we must do everything in our power to save lives in partnership with countries of origin and transit, and treat people with respect and according to their rights.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, what happened on the moroccan border on the 24th, as you have described it, madam commissioner, is a tragedy without palliatives. the death of dozens of people cannot in any case be described as a matter of well-settled matters, as pedro sánchez, the president of the government of spain, did. far from being well resolved, your government's handling of the complex situation at the southern border is a mass of uncertainties. the erratic and band-aid migration policy, which has gone from the call effect of the aquarius and the withdrawal of the concertinas to the present complacency in the face of humanitarian disaster, is not well resolved. the internal policy is not well resolved, leaving the spanish border security forces unprotected, without the appropriate technical means, deterrent material or anti-intrusion measures. and international politics is not well-balanced either, since it has upset the delicate balance in the maghreb and at the same time has managed to antagonize spain with two of its major strategic partners, morocco and algeria. everything is well solved in the parallel world of sánchez's propaganda, but practically nothing in the real world. that's why we need a change. we need a government which restores the credibility of spain and europe in north africa, and we need a transparent and reliable government which resumes the bonds of collaboration and which responds effectively to the pressure of migration in order to prevent similar tragedies from happening again.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the tragic loss of life off melilla on the moroccan-spanish border shows how urgently we need a policy of solidarity on migration. the eu is a union of values. - you did? what i see is this: there is currently a lack of solidarity with member states on the external border, a lack of solidarity with citizens and communities who are working for refugees. there is a lack of solidarity with people seeking protection, who invoke a fundamental right of the eu. and beyond mere border controls, we need at last real partnership cooperation with third countries. but instead of defending our values with concrete action, there is blame-sharing everyone against everyone. and we are all responsible for that. our treaties call for a policy of solidarity and shared responsibility. and the disregard of the treaties makes criminal gangs the beneficiaries of this failure and at the same time refugees and our values the victims. but the treatment of refugees from ukraine shows that we can still circumvent the law. we cannot yet take in people in need of protection quickly and humanely, provide them with housing and then integrate them. the only thing that is needed is the political will of the member states and the commission.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, what happened on 24 june at the border between morocco and the european union is a real tragedy, a tragedy which this parliament condemns. but what has happened is the tragic corollary of morocco's border management, a management that is a mixture of negligence and incompetence, coupled with an indecent political use of the migration drama as a mechanism to put pressure on spain and the european union as a whole. this parliament must demand that morocco strictly observe the human rights of immigrants and combat illegal immigration and the smuggling of immigrants. but it also has to make it honour the commitments it has made to the european union, for which it receives and has received more than 346 million euros. however, the increase in land-based arrivals in ceuta and melilla in the first quarter of 2022 has been 239%. the border management by morocco is a real disaster, a disaster suffered by immigrants and citizens of melilla. because morocco must be reminded that it must respect human rights, but the european union must also guarantee the safety of the citizens of ceuta and melilla because, as the commission said, ceuta and melilla are borders of the european union. they are not just spain's border, they are a border of the european union, and their citizens deserve the respect and security that every other citizen of the union deserves.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, with regard to the deaths on the spanish border with morocco, do not look for those responsible among spanish police officers or, of course, among the spanish people of common sense who suffer in their neighbourhoods the consequences of illegal and uncontrolled immigration. it was recalled here that sánchez has described this assault as an aggression on our borders. it has been. finally, a truth from the spanish prime minister, such truths are so rare. but vox has been saying that for a long time and it's been labeled racist and xenophobic for it. those are the facts. the fact is that those responsible for this are within europe, they are in the spanish government, for example, and they are also here. the responsibility lies with all those who promise, with other people's money, a paradise in europe that does not exist; the responsibility lies with those who ask for 50 million immigrants to come to overrun the lists and destroy wages; the responsibility lies with those who subsidize the ships of these fake ngos that are traffickers; the responsibility lies with those who want many, many immigrants here to trade within their playing field. the mafia is guilty too. many of us will insist on mistakes, but in twenty years there will be 2.5 billion africans. we can't take them all.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, let us be clear: the european institutions are racist. the eu's immigration policies are racist. border control is done with a racist bias. only in this way can we understand that, faced with the same phenomenon, we should act differently. if we have been able to protect several million ukrainian refugees fleeing the horror, nothing, absolutely nothing, justifies that we cannot do exactly the same for those who have come fleeing other wars and other horrors. but that's not what we saw at the melilla fence. we have seen bodies crammed and beaten, we have seen the moroccan guard invade community territory to execute hot returns and at least 37 people dead and almost a hundred injured. and it's important to remember that there is not a single physical place to seek asylum across the entire southern border. and you know why? because the eu's asylum policy is conditioned by skin color. that is why i would ask those who 'mourn' the deaths, while financing the executioners, to be less cynical and also to initiate an investigation to ascertain the responsibility for this massacre.
madam president, madam commissioner, the far right wins when even those who call themselves progressive put their own words into words, because that is when they succeed in imposing their agenda, their language and their frame of mind. an example of this is the shameful words of spanish president pedro sánchez to define what happened in melilla in a police action in which 37 migrants were killed: he spoke of an operation "well resolved" and of an "organized and violent assault", thus criminalizing people fleeing misery and terrible war conflicts such as the one in sudan. we demand that the facts be investigated and that accountability be meted out. we want to know what the pact with morocco is and at what cost these crimes are being defended. how can europe dare to speak of human rights if it is trampling them underfoot with cold-blooded murders at the very doors? we have shown with ukraine that if we want to, we can. we are taking down this fortress europe by creating legal and safe pathways for those fleeing the horror, regardless of the colour of their skin.
madam president, the protection of the external borders of the european union is not at issue in our debate today. but it is still necessary to ensure such protection with discernment, on the one hand, and respect for human rights, and on the other hand, respect for the right to seek international protection. the terrible events in melilla on 24 june have forced us to consider how we can combine these two imperatives. of course, there is no magic formula, but it is certain that the use of violence, as was the case at the border in the melilla enclave, is unacceptable. all this sadly echoes the events that took place at the border between belarus and poland in 2021. in response, the commission has proposed a regulation on the exploitation of migrants, which could be used in a case such as the spanish-moroccan border. first problem: the definition of what constitutes the 'instrumentalisation of migrants' is found in the revision of the schengen borders code, which has little to do with the subject. but above all, the regulation is wrongly targeted: the instrumentalisation is aimed primarily at the victims of this inhuman blackmail, namely the migrants themselves, and not at the perpetrators of the crime, certain political leaders or even unscrupulous smugglers. it is therefore time to seriously review our border policy, to respect our international commitments and to allow an independent inquiry to establish who is responsible for the tragedy in melilla.
madam president, madam commissioner, dear ylva johansson, too often migration crises have devastating human consequences. the recent events in the melilla enclave sound like a repeated bis, an infinite repetition, each time unacceptable. let us collectively take stock of the realities of migration, rather than erecting ever higher barriers. with the war in ukraine and the rise in the price of agricultural raw materials, the displacement of the population will intensify. i am pleading, madam commissioner, for the continuation of the work undertaken, in particular, by the french presidency of the european union, by building a strong relationship and partnerships between the union and third countries in our neighbourhood. it is about working for the economic development of these regions, where these migration flows start and transit, and also to fight against criminal networks and mafias that exploit the dreams or distress of migrants. it is also, ladies and gentlemen, a question of finally achieving a reform of the european asylum policy. we are aware of the difficulties involved, but circumstances require us, ladies and gentlemen, to pursue a humane and responsible policy. with my group, renew, we also call on the czech presidency to make a strong commitment to this end.
madam president, one day millions of men will leave the poorest parts of the world for the rich lands of the northern hemisphere. and this invasion will not be fraternal or even peaceful. that is what the algerian president houari boumédiène said in 1974. this chilling prophecy is illustrated by the savage attacks on the spanish frontiers at ceuta and melilla, by hordes of thousands of illegal immigrants who climb the gates and force their way onto our continent. it is the same hostile intention when algeria sends boats loaded with hundreds of illegal immigrants to spain to put pressure on it. these migrants, on whom european politicians sometimes shed crocodile tears, are openly considered harmful by both algeria and turkey, and their presence weakens europe. how many of them are future islamist butchers, mass rapists like in cologne or criminals who are making our cities uninhabitable and ruining the lives of our fellow citizens? they all benefit from the encouragement and complicit help of immigration ngos, the far left, but also lobbies infiltrated within the european union. boumedienne's prophecy is now taking shape before our eyes: when will you finally realize it?
madam president, commissioner, there is a great parallel between the betrayal of sweden and finland by the kurds to satisfy turkey and spain's yet another stab at western sahara. in the saharawi case, it is becoming clear that spain has changed its historical position in favour of the moroccan occupier in exchange for outsourcing the southern border of the european union in melilla, with the tragic result of the 37 deaths we learned of two weeks ago. this is a bad administration by the spanish government, which also involves the european union, because spain has subcontracted the control of the southern entrance to the european union to a country whose respect for human rights is conspicuous by its absence. this calls into question the fundamental values of the union itself. but this is not just spain's responsibility. the european union is also responsible for these atrocities when it appeals against the judgments of the court of justice, which do not recognise any sovereignty over western sahara other than that of the saharawi. commissioner, it is time to put an end to this endless violation of rights, because the lives of africans also matter. stop playing with the rights of the saharawi people and abide once and for all by the decisions of the european courts.
madam president, madam commissioner, thank you for coming. first of all, i would just like to remind you, in accordance with the rules of procedure, that my colleague, mr javier moreno, would have liked to take part in this debate, but that, because of a problem with air transport, he was unable to do so. i would also like to add my condolences and solidarity to the families of all the victims. ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first tragedy and unfortunately i fear it will not be the last, although it should be. if we do not change our policy, it will happen again, and not just at the southernmost border of the union. the pandemic temporarily slowed migration flows, but now secular changes, global warming and putin's war are accelerating them, and so are the famines, which are causing this unsustainable situation. obviously, we are relying on the investigations undertaken by the spanish and moroccan prosecutors' offices, and by the spanish ombudsman, to find out exactly what has happened. the loss of human life has no color or religion. immigrants should always be treated with dignity. but some right-wing political forces, especially in my country, are trying to profit from this tragedy in the face of an increasingly pressing challenge in which we should all be united in order to implement a holistic, orderly and effective european immigration policy.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs, the political groups and the teams for their work and commitment to a problem, that of poverty, which affects the whole of europe and is of increasing concern to european citizens, as the latest eurobarometer shows. the problem is that poverty is immoral and, in a rich country like europe, it is simply incomprehensible. it limits the effective rights of citizenship which should underpin the european project and directly goes against the fundamental values of the european charter. poverty has soared in europe with rising energy prices and an average increase in inflation of 10%. and i give you an example of my country, andalusia, where the latest data tell us that more than 38 percent of the population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this is simply a shame that urges us to act with courage and conviction. in the present context, with russia's invasion of ukraine, we are living in extreme uncertainty and also a very harsh reality. prices of basic foodstuffs, fuel and energy are rising steadily, and wages are not keeping pace. a growing poverty that especially affects the poorest of the poor, which are women. according to the latest eurostat data, there are 64.6 million women, compared to 57.6 million men, in poverty in europe, and in recent years the gender gap in poverty had already widened in 21 of the 27 member states. we have no excuse. the report therefore attempts to put forward a series of proposals which must be put into effect as a matter of urgency. first, we must put in place an anti-poverty strategy for 2030 that is ambitious, including the roll-out of minimum incomes in all member states; an income pact, betting on a new social contract that is indeed feminist, with jobs and decent work. we need to close all existing gender gaps: in employment, 11%, in hourly wages, 13%; in pensions, 29%; or in income, 36%. also the gap in access to all kinds of resources and services which ultimately lead to the risk of social exclusion and poverty. secondly, we must decisively combat energy poverty, whether in winter or summer, especially in this context of the climate emergency, which particularly affects older single women and single-parent families. similarly, the housing crisis must be tackled, because every decent life begins with a roof. thirdly, we need to mainstream the gender perspective into the digital transition, including by creating a dedicated fund to increase women's participation in the digital economy, which is essential for inclusion. fourthly, we need to create a european strategy for care, a genuine european pact for care, because care work must not be done by women, free of charge, unrecognised, unpaid or naturalised. we need measures to ensure that all people are co-responsible for care, especially in ageing societies, and that the dignity of those receiving care and those who care for them is respected. fifth, we must review our economic policies, our economic governance and our taxation, to ensure equal access to basic public services, adequate financing, fair and progressive taxation, and economic policies that do not generate inequalities, but the opposite: a genuine income pact. and, sixth and last, we must mainstream gender mainstreaming across the entire public policy cycle within the european union and the member states. the poverty of women has structural causes which we must combat if we want a europe with dignity and a future. i hope to have your support.
the rapporteur. madam president, as the commissioner and the members who have preceded me have said, gender discrimination and poverty of women speak for themselves, the data speak for themselves. but, in addition, in these data, the real poverty of women is statistically underestimated, since poverty is measured through the family unit, without taking into account intra-family gender inequalities. this underestimates the data on women's real poverty and masks the structural inequalities suffered by women, their less access to all kinds of resources, their greater difficulty in escaping from situations of gender-based violence or the fact that they are forced into prostitution or are victims of sexual exploitation, especially sexualized women or immigrants with greater difficulties in accessing employment or social services. the statistics do not reflect the multidimensional nature of poverty or do not measure the time poverty that traps women in poverty, especially in single-parent households, since women represent 85% of single-parent households, constituting 42% of households at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this lack of time leaves these women with little to no tools to reverse their situation, as well as that of their children. we must know that one in four children in the union is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. we can't allow that. that's why we need better statistics, better laws, better policies, especially economic policies, to combat inequality, poverty and also gender inequality. and above all, we need a firm political commitment from the european union and the member states. we are here to act, to change everything that is necessary, so that people, including women, can live with dignity and fully exercise their rights as citizens. we shall thus be building a european project for the future, a priority for socialists who believe in a feminist europe with social justice. we will work for more europe and less poverty.
mr president, commissioner, we are all needy and unfinished beings, we have all been children and, hopefully, we will all be old people. it's time to assume that we have a debt of bond to those who care for us and have cared for us. a debt which is not only material but also emotional, and which is borne primarily by women. in europe, more than seven and a half million women have left the labour market to care for their children, compared with 450,000 men, and almost nine million women work part-time as carers, compared with 560,000 men. then we complain about the lack of empathy that many men exhibit: caring and loving is learned by caring and loving. i have been advocating for years for a european care pact and i am glad that this report is moving towards a model in which men and institutions take their rightful place. we must provide quality services that guarantee the well-being and autonomy of those who need them. but that cannot be achieved unless you value and pay for the care that is worth it. women are no longer receiving €287 billion a year in unpaid care. let us not forget: caring and loving are learned by caring and loving.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the european parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. another kind of pandemic, more silent, that affects people's mental health, especially more vulnerable groups, like women and young people, and that is directly related to job insecurity, job instability and digitalization. and that is that, when we talk about digital transition, we also have to talk about the consequences that misuse of artificial intelligence systems and automation have on the health and safety of workers, including their mental health. mass control and surveillance, increased hours worked, lack of clarity and transparency in labour relations, lack of separation between work and private life or clear violation of privacy rights are just some of the examples that increase psychosocial risks and have a negative impact on the mental health of workers, but also on society in general, due to the high cost of public expenditure they cause and an increased risk of social exclusion and poverty in the medium term. it is for these psychosocial risks that we have long called for a directive to prevent and manage, and for the recognition that certain mental disorders, such as anxiety, depression and burnout, are associated with working conditions and should be recognised as occupational diseases. it's time to act. i am sure you share the view, commissioner, that there is a need to legislate and ensure that employers take their due responsibility in protecting the mental health of workers. the agreement reached last week on teleworking and the right to disconnect is a step forward. we hope that the signatories will rise to the occasion and that we will soon find new regulatory frameworks on artificial intelligence in the workplace and on the prevention and management of psychosocial risks.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, first of all, i wanted to thank the rapporteur, mrs. walsh, for her excellent work, because this is a report on mental health in the digital work world that is necessary, because it is attached to the reality of a working world redefined by the covid-19 pandemic. the pandemic has changed the working conditions of millions of workers in europe with positive consequences, but also with negative consequences, such as excessive connection, blurring of the lines between work and private life, increased intensity in work and technological stress that can have, which has, negative psychological, physical and social consequences, such as work-related anxiety, burnout or depression. we therefore have an obligation, as legislators, to safeguard and promote the right to physical and mental health of workers in this context. but mental health has been and is the big forgotten one in health systems and also in occupational safety and health policies. this new situation therefore requires a new and broader definition of health and safety at work. it also requires legislative frameworks that are able to address in a holistic way the problems that the digital world means for workers. i would therefore like to stress once again, commissioner, the need to promote european regulations on teleworking which are able to deal in a comprehensive and holistic way with the problems posed to workers by this new world of digital work.
chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, thank you, it won’t be 3 minutes. just to explain what it’s about. the council has addressed the president of the european parliament in order to request from this european parliament to vote on the urgent procedure of a consent procedure regarding criminal law to punish violations of restrictive measures imposed by the european union. that is including the violation of restrictive measures in the list of eu crimes on the legal basis of article 83 of the duty of functioning of the european union. so that it will be possible to set common criminal rules and minimum sanctions and penalties in order to investigate, prosecute and punish those violations of the restrictive measures in all of the member states alike. so, we are voting first and i kindly request that you vote positively, showing again commitment to the fight against impunity, against all atrocities committed, particularly in the context of the war against ukraine. vote favourably on this urgent procedure so that we can on thursday vote on the consent procedure so that the directive will be brought by the commission to the attention and deliberation of this parliament.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 12.38 p.m.)
good afternoon, colleagues. please take your seats so that we can start our session again. (the sitting resumed at 12.44)
we now move on to the debates. the next item is the following: council and commission statements eu initiatives to tackle the rising cost of living, including the implementation of the european pillar of social rights (→2022/2749 (rsp)). i would remind you that the seats are vacant, except for the first two rows, which are allocated to the heads of the political groups. you can request 'catch the eye' and 'blue card' cards via your voting device after you have inserted your voting card. i would also like to remind you that speeches in the chamber will continue to be made from the central platform, except for spontaneous requests for the floor, blue cards and points of order.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, this is my first appearance here, so i’m really looking forward to our mutual cooperation during the czech presidency. let me start by commending parliament for placing such an important topic on the agenda of this plenary. we are living through challenging times with direct effects on european households and companies. it is therefore our collective responsibility to address those challenges at all levels and find solutions that protect our citizens and our economies. i will use this intervention to touch upon the most critical aspects of the current situation and to present the concrete measures that the council has taken or is considering in each of the relevant policy areas. inflation is a major concern for all of us, as russia’s war of aggression exacerbated the rise in the price of energy, food and commodities. this has a direct impact on our citizens and on our businesses. it has become clearer than ever that the union’s energy security is indispensable for a successful, sustainable and inclusive recovery from the crisis. it is a fact that high energy prices weigh particularly heavily on the most vulnerable parts of our populations. therefore, alleviating energy poverty and addressing the social consequences of the rise in energy prices is one of the main priorities of the presidency. last month, the council agreed its negotiating position on the revision of the energy efficiency directive, which would oblige member states to take measures to implement energy efficiency improvements for people affected by or at the risk of energy poverty. in addition, the ongoing revision of the energy performance of buildings directive will facilitate more targeted financing to investments in the building sector, thus supporting vulnerable consumers and fighting energy poverty. let me recall that on 29 june the council also agreed its negotiating position on the social climate fund regulation under the fit for 55 package. the new fund should help tackle energy poverty by supporting vulnerable households, micro—enterprises and transport users particularly affected by the impact of the new emissions trading system for buildings and road transport. the council remains ready to engage in negotiations with the european parliament for a fast adoption of this important file so the support can reach the most vulnerable as soon as possible. what is more, the council recently also adopted a recommendation on a fair transition to climate neutrality. this recommendation encourages member states to put in place measures to support those most affected by the green transition, in particular those in vulnerable situations, and to accompany them towards economic activities that contribute to climate and environmental objectives. in october, we will hold a conference on tackling energy poverty, focusing on the eu approach and sharing the best practices. in the framework of the european semester, the council will adopt on 12 july country—specific recommendations for all the member states. the recommendations from the commission for 2023 take into account the worsened economic outlook and the higher inflation compared to the commission’s 2022 winter forecast. as a result, for 2022 and 2023, it is recommended that national fiscal and social policies take into account continued temporary and targeted support to households and firms most vulnerable to energy price hikes. the national recovery and resilience plans cover a broad range of reforms and investments that strengthen member states’ social protection systems. these measures focus on the effectiveness, quality and resilience of social protection systems and include also specific measures addressing, for instance, the inclusion of people with disabilities, increasing the adequacy and sustainability of social benefits, and improving the living conditions of elderly people in need of care. the european pillar of social rights supports and guides our work in the social policy areas. the commitment of the council and its member states to the porto declaration and to achieving the headline targets by 2030 was reinforced by setting national targets on employment, skills and the fight against poverty. beyond setting national targets, let me stress that important concrete achievements have been made since the porto summit. last month, the co—legislators reached an historic agreement on the directive on adequate minimum wages in the eu. this should significantly contribute to reducing in-work poverty and to improving upward social convergence. the council has also approved in june 2021 the european child guarantee to address the problem of children at the risk of poverty. the implementation of this recommendation is one of our priority areas. we believe that strong political commitment, ambitious national action plans and strong governance at national level are crucial to ensure an efficient implementation. in line with this commitment, we will organise a high—level presidency conference entitled ‘child support in the context of the child guarantee’ later this week on 7 and 8 july. rising inflation and the impact of the war waged by russia in ukraine create real risks also for youth employment. in the framework of the implementation of the reinforced youth guarantee, the member states can better design and put in place policies for youth. let me recall that the council recommendation on the reinforced youth guarantee recognises the partnerships between youth guarantee providers and other social services, including social housing and accessibility services, as cross—cutting enablers for its implementation. president, honourable members, i thank you for the attention.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i also want to thank the european parliament for organising this very important debate on a topic that preoccupies european citizens all over europe. indeed, europe is at a key social, economic and political juncture. we were on a recovery path, but we are now facing an unprecedented situation, largely due to russia’s war of aggression in ukraine. this war has not only caused destruction and a humanitarian crisis, but it is also an attack on our societies and values in europe. this has also generated unprecedented challenges in terms of rising cost of living for households in europe, mainly due to spiralling energy and food prices. the consequences of the current crisis have an impact on supply chains, commodity and energy prices in the eu affecting many sectors of our economy, and especially smes and so affecting the overall economic activity as well as the revenues and purchasing power of households. the european parliament in its recent resolution of may 19 on the social and economic consequences for the eu of the russian war in ukraine, called for action to address the economic and social crisis in a coordinated manner, mitigating the impact of energy prices on vulnerable households and supporting them to ensure a fair green transition with a view to containing poverty, while the eu frees itself of dependence on russian energy imports and on fossil fuels. parliament also stressed the importance of preserving social resilience against the background of a possible deterioration of the economic and social situation engendered by a protracted war in ukraine, spiralling prices and high inflation. we fully share your concern and we carefully listen to your calls, which are in line also with the social pillar and its action plan. in times of crisis, we must increase our efforts towards the implementation of the pillar on key issues such as the fight against poverty and inequalities. decent living and working conditions. labour market integration of vulnerable groups. investment in skills and effective social protection. what is at stake now is social cohesion, which obviously has a wide political dimension. we are already experiencing a significant rise in inflation in the eu above 8% in june 2022, up from around 2% last year. this is holding back the recovery; in the latest eu economic forecasts, eu gdp growth for 2022 has been revised downward from 4% to 2.7%. the combination of high inflation and muted wage growth is significantly eroding the purchasing power of households and increasing the real cost of living, in particular for low-income households. it is of utmost importance to respect now social partners autonomy. and i want also to underline the importance of social dialogue at all levels to cope with these important economic and social challenges. vulnerable groups of citizens and workers have been particularly hit by the covid crisis as well as the previous financial crisis. the most vulnerable in our society bear the brunt of the consequences of the current geopolitical crisis and the war in ukraine. it is up to us as policymakers to act and be the europe that protects. assessing the distribution of impact of inflation and rising living costs and mitigating the adverse effects of these developments on the social situation is of the utmost importance for the commission. in this regard, i am confident that different initiatives that we have been working on will be key in the coming months and years. let me mention a few examples. the directive on adequate minimum wages is expected to create a positive momentum for measures enhancing their adequacy. the european child guarantee will support children in need by breaking the intergenerational cycle of poverty and inequality. and we just heard that the czech presidency is investing a lot in developing this and strengthening the implementation of this child guarantee. the forthcoming recommendation on adequate minimum income will support those who find themselves without any means to find their way back to society, and especially the labour market. the communication of october 21 on tackling rising energy prices provides policy guidance to member states on how to support households. between october 21 and mid-february 22 alone, member states adopted measures in line with the toolbox, which eased energy bills for around 71 million households, customers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. we recently established the energy, poverty and vulnerable consumers coordination group with member states. they will discuss the implementation of emergency measures and examine their evolution. in its communication of 8 march 2022 repowereu joined a european action for more affordable, secure and sustainable energy. the commission provided guidance on the application of fiscal measures on windfall profits with a view to redistributing revenues to final consumers. these measures can play a key role in mitigating the social and economic impact of high energy prices on vulnerable households, as well as on companies and especially smes. tomorrow’s plenary debate on taxing windfall profits of energy companies will provide an important contribution in this context. on may 18, in response to the consequences of russia’s invasion of ukraine, the commission put forward the repowereu plan. the plan aims to achieve energy savings, diversify and secure energy supply and accelerate the green transition by the rollout of renewables, while stressing that our joint action to accelerate the clean energy transition reinforces the need for effective employment skills and social policies in line with the european pillar of social rights. we call on co-legislators to adopt it swiftly. member states can rely on financial support at the eu level, and the european parliament also rightly called for the continuation of financing support for as long as needed. in particular, the european social fund plus provides funding for supporting children and young people and promoting social inclusion and tackling material deprivation. the funds under the recovery and resilience facility are being used by member states to enhance social resilience and social cohesion, which accounts for around one third of national plans, as well as to address the structural causes of energy poverty. to support repowereu eur 225 billion is already available in loans under the rrf. now it is up to member states to update their recovery and resilience plans. as highlighted by president von der leyen, this transition will either be working for all and be just, or it will not work at all. and the newly proposed social climate fund aims to address the regional and social impact of the green transition, including energy, in line with the fair transition principles of the fit for 55 package. in this regard, proposed limitations by co-legislators on fairness-focused investments should not lead to an insufficient capacity to address negative distributional impacts. during the pandemic, we successfully mitigated the risks on employment thanks to the sure instrument. clearly it is an eu success story in 2020 that supported approximately 31 million people, almost one third of total employment in 19 beneficiary states. in the new future, we have to collectively reflect on new innovative instruments modelled on previous instruments to protect citizens, especially the most vulnerable, and to tackle challenges related to the reduction of purchasing power and rising energy prices. the current social and economic outlook requires further coordinated efforts between the eu member states and social partners to tackle the emerging challenges related to the reduction of purchasing power. to respond to the evolving crisis and the deteriorating situation, economic and social governance mechanisms under the european semester are an invaluable asset, and the revised social scoreboard, which monitors member states progress towards better skills and social fairness. we will follow up on the debate on the review of the eu economic governance framework, as well as on the reform of the eu own resources, including the introduction of new own resources. we need to build on the experience of the past two years where we have collectively been able to put the european pillar of social rights at the heart of the eu’s recovery, one that is sustainable, inclusive and fair. the challenge now is to keep the recovery on track, to address the rising cost of living in the current crisis. that is also the message and spirit of porto, the pillar, its action plan and the three ambitious social headline targets for 2030 must drive our joint efforts for a fair, green and digital transition. since the porto social summit, the eu has continued working towards more social and economic fairness and resilience, and we are ready to pursue actively these key objectives. we heard parliament’s call to organise a follow up to the porto social summit to discuss the challenges of the extraordinary situation we are facing with increasing inflation and its social consequences. i share the view that we have to address this pressing issue of rising cost of living in the eu in a coordinated manner and at the highest level. and the commission will obviously play fully its role. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, faced with the rising inflation i would say skyrocketing inflation that we are experiencing in europe, which punishes families, the self-employed, smes and anyone trying to develop an economic activity, but also anyone trying to make ends meet and it is increasingly costing many more , europe has put on the table, in the wake of the covid-19 crisis, a stimulus plan that involves an injection of unprecedented european funds, which are the nextgenerationeu funds. as our commissioner has just said, he has also put the repowereu plan on the table now. so europe has shown that solidarity and now is the time to make good use of these funds, so that they can be used to meet this challenge of bringing down inflation and helping families, smes and businesses to get on with their lives. it is therefore important that these changes that member states can make to their national plans include tax cuts whatever they do: to reduce the impact that inflation is having on prices, and on our daily economy; to reduce taxes that reduce the electricity bill and also reduce the price of energy; and to create tax incentives to encourage investments and projects that help to create progress, opportunities and jobs. i therefore call on the commission to encourage the member states to take advantage of what already exists, namely the nextgenerationeu funds, and to press the member states to make the necessary reforms and the appropriate investments to address the drama we are living today because of inflation.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, history teaches us that when inflation reaches these high levels, it takes discipline and patience to bring it under control. but the ecb is entering this battle against inflation with one hand tied behind its back. a decade after the euro crisis, our economic and monetary union is still deeply incomplete. first, we have not created the safe asset for the euro area. and as a result, money flees to safety from the south to the north, placing highly indebted states under more stress. second, we still don’t have a single deposit insurance. the ministers a couple of weeks ago abandoned the road map to build one. third, we still do not have an instrument for common borrowing. this places the ecb in the situation of having to support highly indebted member states, which is not its job. fourth, we lack an enforceable set of fiscal rules. now the ecb announces an anti- fragmentation tool in order to be able to raise rates. and well, they have to know they shouldn’t be naive. they will be tested. and the truth of the matter is that they do not have any long term solution. this is a non-strategy of temporary fixes which is going to run out of road very soon. out-of-control inflation is always a very hard problem to solve by continuing to neglect the structural problems there is a risk that european leaders will make these crises fatal for the euro.
in writing. the european project was born of solidarity and the need to move forward by implementing sound social and economic policies. to date, the eu has been a beacon in the world as a more advanced rights-based bloc, with decades of social progress bearing witness to its success and expansion. however, if the eu does not offer a better life for the majority, we run the risk of people turning their backs on the project. we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence. in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success. we are convinced that putting the well-being of people at the centre of all policies is both a realistic goal and an ethical imperative of our time. we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
in writing. the european project was born of solidarity and the need to move forward by implementing sound social and economic policies. to date, the eu has been a beacon in the world as a more advanced rights-based bloc, with decades of social progress bearing witness to its success and expansion. however, if the eu does not offer a better life for the majority, we run the risk of people turning their backs on the project. we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence. in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success. we are convinced that putting the well-being of people at the centre of all policies is both a realistic goal and an ethical imperative of our time. we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
in writing. the european project was born of solidarity and the need to move forward by implementing sound social and economic policies. to date, the eu has been a beacon in the world as a more advanced rights-based bloc, with decades of social progress bearing witness to its success and expansion. however, if the eu does not offer a better life for the majority, we run the risk of people turning their backs on the project. we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence. in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success. we are convinced that putting the well-being of people at the centre of all policies is both a realistic goal and an ethical imperative of our time. we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
in writing. the european project was born of solidarity and the need to move forward by implementing sound social and economic policies. to date, the eu has been a beacon in the world as a more advanced rights-based bloc, with decades of social progress bearing witness to its success and expansion. however, if the eu does not offer a better life for the majority, we run the risk of people turning their backs on the project. we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence. in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success. we are convinced that putting the well-being of people at the centre of all policies is both a realistic goal and an ethical imperative of our time. we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
in writing. the european project was born of solidarity and the need to move forward by implementing sound social and economic policies. to date, the eu has been a beacon in the world as a more advanced rights-based bloc, with decades of social progress bearing witness to its success and expansion. however, if the eu does not offer a better life for the majority, we run the risk of people turning their backs on the project. we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence. in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success. we are convinced that putting the well-being of people at the centre of all policies is both a realistic goal and an ethical imperative of our time. we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
in writing. the european project was born of solidarity and the need to move forward by implementing sound social and economic policies. to date, the eu has been a beacon in the world as a more advanced rights-based bloc, with decades of social progress bearing witness to its success and expansion. however, if the eu does not offer a better life for the majority, we run the risk of people turning their backs on the project. we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence. in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success. we are convinced that putting the well-being of people at the centre of all policies is both a realistic goal and an ethical imperative of our time. we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
in writing. the european project was born of solidarity and the need to move forward by implementing sound social and economic policies. to date, the eu has been a beacon in the world as a more advanced rights-based bloc, with decades of social progress bearing witness to its success and expansion. however, if the eu does not offer a better life for the majority, we run the risk of people turning their backs on the project. we call on the member states and the commission to take ambitious measures that demonstrate their determination to ensure a decent standard of living, sustainable and inclusive growth and upward social convergence. in times of crisis, only a renewed focus on europe's integrated social, environmental and economic project will ensure its future success. we are convinced that putting the well-being of people at the centre of all policies is both a realistic goal and an ethical imperative of our time. we socialists are committed to a different recovery, one that prioritises progress and social justice, social and civil dialogue and respect for fundamental social rights as the basis for the ecological and digital transitions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social economy. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner schmit, because without his work and without his drive the action plan for the social economy presented by the commission would not have been possible. secondly, i would like to thank all the alternative rapporteurs for their work on this report, a report which is everyone's, which belongs to all of us, on which we have worked together to develop it in a constructive and positive way, and i would like to thank them for their work. i would also like to thank the social economy intergroup, which has worked for years and years to promote the social economy in this parliament, seeking to place it at the centre of the political debate. but above all i want to thank the entities, associations, foundations, cooperatives and all those who work in the social economy, who have worked tirelessly for years to get to this point, to get to the point where the european parliament is contributing and giving its word and proposing measures to contribute, together with the action plan for the social economy, presented by the commission, to the social economy being placed at the centre of the political debate and taking its rightful place in the social europe we want. the report, like the action plan, is the result of years of struggle by these entities which make up the social economy to have a harmonised framework at european level which will enable them to grow, which will enable the social economy to grow. and this report seeks to supplement and to specify the action plan with concrete measures with the aim of giving a boost to the debate, so that finally the resolution put forward by the member states will be in line with both the commission's will and the will of the democratic majority that this parliament expresses. the report therefore seeks to guide the council's recommendations in creating an enabling environment for the social economy, with the aim also of exploiting the eu's funding potential and instruments to place us in the social economy and, above all, for a proper implementation of the action plan. because the social economy needs a european framework that allows it recognition and visibility, that gives it a legal environment, that gives it a sufficient financial and regulatory environment. because the social economy is very important for europe, it is very important because it plays a fundamental role in creating quality employment, especially for the people who need it most: people with disabilities, people at risk of social exclusion. it is a key inclusion lever, which has shown itself even in the most difficult moments, demonstrating a unique resilience, and one that europe cannot afford to give up. the social economy must be a key element that is and that guides in the triple sustainability, in the social, in the environmental and in the economic. it is a transformative element or a lever for change to make europe more just, more cohesive, more inclusive, a more social europe. the social economy has a lot to offer. and this report from the european parliament aims to develop its full potential and does so first by urging the member states to provide a common definition of the social economy, a common taxonomy that gives them legal guarantees and allows it to develop in all the countries of the union. it's not like that these days. the presence of the social economy in the different member states is very asymmetrical and we need to move towards harmonization to enable it to grow throughout the european union. to this end, we have proposed five key points: that member states and the commission integrate the social economy dimension into policies and programmes in a transversal and comprehensive way; that the commission establish a working group for the implementation of the action plan; that the commission create a lever, a single, online union platform for the exchange of good practice; that member states designate coordinators for the social economy and create local contact points in this area to raise awareness of the forms of support and funding available; and finally that the commission monitor member states' close follow-up of commitments relating to the social economy in their national recovery and resilience plans. in short, 13.5 million workers in the social economy in the 27 member states will be watching us tomorrow, they will be watching what we vote. we are at a historic moment when this parliament must stand united and propel the social economy to the place it deserves and to the place europe needs.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your words, thank you for your work. but some members asked: what is the social economy? look, when i hear "social economy", i think of commitment, inclusion, respect, dignity and opportunity. that's the social economy. it's a lever for transformation, it's a way for those who need it most to be able to enter the labour market, to be able to receive the aid, the support they need. and so does the social economy. and the social economy is key to the europe we want, to the economy we want and to the society we want: a fairer, more inclusive society. here we are often the prey of the rhetoric of "logica, politica et rhetorica". the proposals are often rhetorical. the social economy is a reality that exists, that has only asked for and is asking for our help, that we give it the framework so that it can develop, that we give it the legal instruments so that it can develop, that we give it the financial instruments so that it can develop. in short, let us give it the tools to do its job, to continue to enable it to give millions of people something that in politics is very difficult to achieve, which is hope, future and opportunity. i would like to thank commissioner schmit and the commission once again for putting a black and white on an ambitious proposal. can you go any further? sure, always, but you have to find balances. and what this parliament wants and has wanted with this report is to give concrete form, to complement, but to go hand in hand, because we need to go hand in hand to build what we want for the social economy. i'm sorry to see the council not here. i'm sorry about that. i regret that because this report is intended to guide the council's recommendations. i hope your absence doesn't mean your lack of commitment. i'm convinced it doesn't. why would you do that? because at the end of the day, all this is about trying to help put the social economy and those millions of people where they belong: at the heart of our public policies.
mr president, commissioner, the results we have had in geneva, in nairobi, are not very flattering. and the expectations, which were really frustrated, of the aichi goals, because they should not be the example either. so my question is: do you think we need to have an agreement, but one that is binding, as it is, in relation to climate, the paris agreement? a binding agreement means that it has to have specific goals and indicators, a deadline for compliance, an implementation mechanism, a review mechanism. on the other hand, as regards the objectives - i am talking about both the recovery and protection objectives, both - do you not think it is time to increase them to 30%? i mean, the expectations are very high and we need the european commission, which represents the european union there, to be very ambitious in its objectives and to make the agreement binding, as the paris agreement is for the climate.
mr president, mr commissioner, i am glad to hear you speak with such passion and such strength. this parliament will accompany you to montreal with these ambitions and these aims, but also with other expectations. and i'm talking about something that is very important: it takes investment to protect and restore biodiversity - according to some experts, up to 700 billion dollars - but just as important is putting in and taking out. and those subsidies, those subsidies which harm nature - we have asked for this in this parliament many times - must be abolished. we must invest where we need to invest and withdraw what is harmful to nature.
mr president, commissioner mcguinness, dear colleagues, i'm afraid, commissioner mcguinness, that many of my colleagues in this chamber believe in what in my primary school, in your primary school would have been called the immaculate energy transition. they think that burying it all in renewables will be enough and we will just stop climate change. and so did germany believe until a few months ago and now it is reopening coal plants. the reality is that as long as we do not have a viable large-scale storage technology, renewables will not be enough. and in the transition, we will need to use nuclear and gas for a very limited period of time. nuclear is a useful transition technology because it doesn’t emit any co2 and the taxonomy allows investments up to 2045. also, gas is necessary in the transition, as this war has made - sadly - painfully clear. gas emits have half as much co2 as coal. that’s not ideal, but it’s the most reasonable temporary alternative. moreover, it’s only given this label transitionally for seven years. therefore, this recommendation is a balanced compromise and a key step towards a sensible transition. that is why i’m not going to vote for this objection and i ask my colleagues to do the same.
mr president, imagine that in the midst of a pandemic the european commission had come here to propose an anti-vaccination strategy. well, that's precisely what they're advocating with the new taxonomy. even though the scientific consensus points to the vaccine to curb climate change being the abandonment of fossil fuels, they want gas and nuclear energy to be green energy by decree. you're overstepping your bounds, mrs. mcguinness, to continue to benefit the electricity oligopoly that will continue to parasitize public funds. you defend the interests of the big energy companies and not the people. perhaps that is why they are hiding behind a security perimeter and not listening to the hundreds of activists who have been prevented from entering this parliament, the seat of popular sovereignty, which is indeed frequented by lobbyists. we need to reduce our consumption of fossil fuels, including gas. we need to give future generations security and certainty. that is why we must abandon nuclear energy. and we need this parliament to take a courageous decision that does not mortgage our future.
mr president, commissioner, i think you have made a mistake. they have been wrong in this delegated act, they have been wrong in the form, because they have neither followed the public consultation nor made the impact assessment and, above all, they have been wrong in substance, because a great many members are saying it: neither gas nor nuclear energy is green, and that is scientific evidence. so if they're not, they can't fit into a taxonomy as such. but, you see, even if they were, in the current context, they're not strategically appropriate. it is absolutely inconsistent with the climate law, with the green deal and with strategic autonomy. it's just that even if they were, they're not for us. you're wrong and you don't correct. and so, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament must help the commission, for the sake of the good image of the european union, to correct this in tomorrow's vote. i know there are many, many who have doubts, but i think there are good arguments being made here. and above all, the scientific evidence is one of them. they're not green energy, they shouldn't be in the taxonomy. parliament must correct the commission.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, it is high time that the european union reflected on its policy of alliances. while he talks about multilateralism, his actions go the other way. we see it with every international conflict. the european union does not hesitate to obey the dictates of the united states, a country which continues to sow war in the world and to attack peoples who question its hegemony. the european union understands that the new world order is to attack any country the united states sets its sights on, and in this regard it has for years been provoking and sanctioning china and russia, whom the united states has declared to be its systemic enemies. the european union must abandon this subordination and have its own foreign policy, based on peace, cooperation and respect for human rights and the sovereignty of peoples. far from this, what we see is the following of a global gendarme who decides everything on the basis of bombs, military interventions and sanctions. and, on the other hand, our peoples are suffering the consequences of this submission.
mr. president, let's talk about hunger, without the technicalities. nothing more frequent for those of us who eat several times a day and, at the same time, nothing more remote for many of us. this is perhaps the greatest failure we have as a civilization, with over 193 million people suffering from hunger and 24,000 people dying every day. even if the european union does meet, we are not achieving the sdg target of the 2030 agenda. as this report points out, conflict, climate change, plagues and finally the pandemic have set us back many years. the impact of the war in ukraine after the russian invasion adds further risks, such as the blockade of grain silos in ukraine. on the effects of war we must also fight against misinformation. it must be said loud and clear: sanctions have no responsibility for the increase in hunger. the agricultural sector in russia is not targeted. our sanctions do not include the transport of agricultural products. as the permanent rapporteur, i am calling for more humanitarian aid, but this is short-term, as the commissioner has rightly said. we need medium- and long-term measures that focus on the triple nexus between humanitarian aid, development and peace. commissioner, we ask you to make your statement as soon as possible.
madam president, we welcome the presidency of the czech republic. president, the european union must face three great challenges today: first, unity in the face of putin by supporting ukraine, preparing to help rebuild a shattered country and break with russia's energy dependence, and preventing the tyrant from clutching the european union through disinformation attacks and using nationalist movements of eurosceptics to destabilise our european democracies. secondly, to combat the excessive inflation. we must ask countries to lower taxes to avoid extraordinary and excessive tax collection by the state while families, smes and the self-employed are ruined. we also demand that european funds be used quickly. thirdly, to strengthen europe's geopolitical leadership in the world, to increase investment and political and trade relations in latin america and africa in the face of china, which is becoming stronger. europe cannot be a secondary player. we must support those places where there is no freedom and populism and communism have been established, such as venezuela, cuba or nicaragua. let's be ambitious and live up to it.
madam president, dear roberta, mr prime minister of the czech republic, thank you very much for the introduction. i would like to add to what other members have said: how important it is for parliament to move forward on the institutional chapter which, indeed, has not been mentioned, perhaps so much, in the presentation, but it is never too late if the content is good. i have full confidence in the ability of the czech presidency to open the debate in the council, as parliament has already called for in its resolution last month, so that the council can start to assess these proposals we have made. it is a question of opening up the debate, of course, of taking note of our resolution without any further room for doubt or confusion and also of helping us to carry forward the important work of the new european electoral law, including the introduction of a european-wide constituency.
madam president, the priorities of the presidency's programme - in the document - included progress in the negotiations or even the finalisation and ratification of the european union's agreements with third countries, especially latin america and the indo-pacific. i think it is a very good idea, very appropriate, after the suspension of these processes during the french presidency. but i was very surprised that, as this progress in the commercial sector is a key and very important element in the future of europe, because we need more markets and more suppliers, you did not mention it in your speech. they've skipped the business part. then that surprises me. i want to believe that you will push for the ratification of the agreements and change the vicious cycle in which the commission has been stuck since 2019 because of some member states. so i would like to hear from this parliament that you are really going to push forward those processes of finally ratifying all the outstanding agreements with latin america, especially mexico, chile and mercosur.
in writing. the spanish socialists welcome the czech presidency's priorities in the field of refugee crisis management, post-war recovery in ukraine and energy security. but we must also anticipate the economic and social consequences of the succession of crises in recent years and the catastrophic consequences of putin's barbarism. we therefore welcome the fact that the czech presidency has adopted the socialist proposal to organise a social summit to update the social policies we agreed on a year ago in porto. gender equality and the rule of law are also fundamental and we have asked the czech presidency to ratify the istanbul convention and to lead a new democratic spring by organising the hearings on the deterioration of the rule of law in hungary and poland, following the article 7 procedures. finally, we spanish socialists demand that the czech presidency not relegate to a second level the negotiations on the new pact on migration and asylum and that it not set aside the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe and in particular the activation of article 48.
in writing. the spanish socialists believe that the eu should continue its solidarity action by helping the ukrainian people in humanitarian, economic and military terms, while working on the implementation of measures to avoid the catastrophic scenario of famines and mass migration worldwide. but, above all, in the short term, we have to win the narrative from putin that we europeans are to blame for food shortages in africa and rising global prices. finally, we regret that the issue of migration is not mentioned in the council conclusions, even though there is not a moment to lose. at present there are five regulations for 2022 and four pending from the previous legislature and it is essential that we all move forward so that we finally achieve a solidary and effective border control. we must at once assume that the external borders of the european union are those of a united europe and that we must move towards a humanitarian dimension of the migration phenomenon.
mr president, commissioner, it is for the first time in history that we try to implement the withdrawal agreement. with pain, and not all circumstances we were able to foresee while negotiating and signing it. surely, we did not foresee the vicious war so close to our borders, and necessity to focus on the security. i think there is room for compromise. surely, the unilateral solutions are not the best ones. and i call on both sides to sit at the table and find this solution for the sake of future cooperation.
mr president, with the creation of northern ireland in 1921, the british engineered a segregated statelet that denied the most basic rights to irish nationals for decades. a system of social and political discrimination that sought to prevent their ever gaining proper representation and access to power. the good friday agreement of 1998 put an end to that situation and ushered in a new era of democratic transformation and shared government between unionist and nationalist. legislation announced by boris johnson could put the protocol at risk and, furthermore, he said that the uk would proceed unilaterally. there is no question that this would endanger the good friday agreement. it would endanger governance on the island of ireland and it would endanger the progress made over the last 24 years in the peace process. as we know, sinn féin won the last elections, but the dup, led by jeffrey donaldson, is refusing to share power. they are playing a bad loser’s role. it’s time for them to abide by, and implement, the full rule of democracy and for the european commission to increase pressure on the british government so the peace legacy remains intact.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, cereals prices are rising and fuel, transport and logistics costs are increasing. in addition, there are those who profit from and speculate on agricultural and food products, precisely because markets allow for such behavior. this is having a serious impact on farmers and lower income families in europe, but also on entire countries, which may end up facing famine situations. we must take immediate action to alleviate this situation and stop the catastrophic effects of the reduction in ukrainian exports. but let us not forget that this situation is, first and foremost, the result of an unsustainable and dependent production model which we should change. we need to guarantee food sovereignty, end speculation, protect small-scale family farming, which produces about 80% of the world's food, promote decent working conditions in the field and short supply chains, and end corporate concentration in the food sector, which impoverishes us. we are here to guarantee rights and the right to food has to be now - should be now - our priority.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ukraine is the breadbasket of the world and the war is starving the planet. and if the prices of bread and pasta have gone up here, people in africa and the middle east are in danger of starving, because entire countries are 100 percent dependent on ukrainian exports, which are blocked by russian mines and bombs. this is a huge amount of food, because of the 620 million tons of grain traded in 2021, ukraine alone provided 11 percent. so we must act now, because if global grain stocks fall below a certain level, not only will world hunger increase, but every producing country will react with understandable fear by limiting grain exports. a measure that makes sense on its own, but if dozens of countries were to take it at the same time, the collective effect would be an unprecedented price explosion, which could reach unprecedented levels. the major powers must therefore agree to the urgent opening of sea food corridors, but in the meantime the union must facilitate land transport by allocating resources for the purchase and rental of trains and lorries and by supporting logistics operators to cope with the high insurance costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway infrastructure is not affected by the current crisis. moreover, world exporters are no longer buying ukrainian wheat, as they are rightly concerned that the product they buy today will never be delivered. the commission and the un should therefore also consider buying wheat directly from ukrainian producers and then selling it to exporters. finally, we must coordinate our efforts, at the g7, at the g20, to avoid restrictions which would be catastrophic for the export of wheat. only then will the humanitarian disaster that is this war not turn into a global food disaster.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was at the polish-ukrainian border about two weeks ago and will be at the romanian-ukrainian border in the next few days, and i have to say that the export of bread grain from ukraine to africa is simply not taking place at the moment. the commissioner said that grain is exported from ukraine, but that is almost exclusively feed for the eu market. less than 150 000 tonnes of wheat left ukraine in june. the reason is clear: the concept of solidarity corridors must not be a mere logistical concept. the fact is that in ukraine, wheat is currently sold at skyrocketing prices because you have to empty the warehouses. the fact is that we have abolished our import duties and with that, of course, the justified fear of the farmers in the border states on the european side, on the eu side, is that the imports from ukraine will destroy the domestic market. so we have to make sure that the wheat actually gets to where it's needed - in the middle east, in africa, in the world food programme. i believe that the european commission must do this as soon as possible.
madam president, commissioner, minister, this week ukrainians began harvesting their vast, fertile fields. more than 40 million tonnes of grain are expected. whether this and last year’s harvest will be delivered to the dozens of countries where this grain means starvation or life will depend to a large extent on our immediate action. russia will take no steps to prevent famine in many countries in africa and the middle east. creating artificial famines is part of russia’s legacy. in the 1930s, the last century, soviet russia perpetrated the inhuman holodomor, starving millions of ukrainians to death. i urge the european commission and the member states to work together with the international partners to assist ukraine in creating safe export corridors and restoring safe navigation through the black sea. russia must be pressed and reasoned to accept an uninterrupted maritime corridor for agricultural products in order to alleviate the food crisis it has created.
madam president, commissioner, i had also the opportunity to join the mission of the agricultural committee to the polish—ukrainian border also two weeks ago, and i was impressed by how smoothly things were running. but to be honest, not much was running – almost no grain makes it to the eu borders. but also no one had yet heard of the so-called ‘solidarity lanes’ announced by the commission; idem for the matchmaking platform supposed to facilitate the export. the cost of transporting the food via new routes and transport modes, in a country under attack, are sky high, and the prices ukrainian farmers are getting are too low. this complicated issue needs a holistic, strategic approach. if we really want to help save the harvest – which we should focus on right now – the eu needs to think bigger. the solidarity lanes should go from inside ukraine to their final destination, especially to the countries outside the eu which really depend on these imports.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, facilitating the export of ukrainian agricultural products is vital for the ukrainian economy, but also for global food security. according to a report published on 29 june by fao and the oecd, an additional 19 million people could suffer from hunger by 2023, mainly in africa, if the situation remains unchanged. this would cause serious humanitarian problems, but also an increased risk of migration flooding. all efforts must therefore be made to enable ukraine to restore its exports. the priority is to lift the blockade of ukrainian seaports through diplomatic channels. this is urgent, because with the blockade, more than 22 million tonnes of grain are already stuck in ukrainian warehouses, even before the new harvest. whatever the success of this undertaking, new export corridors must also be created, as the commission has stated. this is a huge logistical challenge, because we cannot imagine how we could transport 22 million tonnes of grain by truck. the rail transport must also be used, with the technical difficulty that ukrainian rails do not have the same track gauge as european rails, which requires transhipment at the border. in addition, there is a need to convince member states to speed up customs controls and increase their storage capacity for ukrainian cereals. these are all challenges that need to be addressed in the name of a priority general interest: ensuring global food security.
madam president, minister, i have to go. according to experts' estimates, ukraine is faced with the need to export about 50 million tonnes of cereals from last year's and this year's harvests over the next nine months, or about five million tonnes per month. my country, poland, has already taken all possible steps to improve the capacity of our border, so that through four separate border crossings it is possible to transport about one and a half million tonnes of cereals per month, but this capacity is only half used. the difficulties are unfortunately mainly on the ukrainian side. the partially destroyed road and rail infrastructure, the inadequacy of rail transport, in particular the lack of grain wagons and transhipment infrastructure at the border, and, i would stress, the skyrocketing cost of compulsory insurance for this transport, are just some of the problems that are reducing the efficiency of these green corridors. in this situation, the unblocking of the sea route for grain transport through ukrainian black sea ports with the participation of eu institutions, the un and perhaps even nato is a dramatic challenge in my opinion. without this, it seems, about 40 million tons of ukrainian grain will not be exported, and this threatens - as has been mentioned many times here - a famine disaster in the countries of north africa and the middle east, with all the negative consequences for all of us.
madam president, "our greatest hope is famine". with these words, margarita simonyan, putin's chief propagandist, summed up the enormous dependence of africa and the middle east on russian and ukrainian grain. after threatening to cut off gas to european countries and start a global nuclear war, russia's latest deadly threat is the blockade of food exports. to avoid this russian blackmail we must first of all urgently look for logistical alternatives to the black sea ports. and secondly, we must increase the productivity of our crops in europe to supply the ukrainian supply and control food price inflation, as the united nations is calling for. these are precisely the opposite of mr timmermans' farm to table strategy, which will reduce productivity by up to 15% and raise food prices by 10%. the continuation of this strategy is not only a wrong choice that will hurt european farmers and consumers alike. it is also an irresponsibility that may accelerate the grave global famine that is coming.
madam president, the invasion of ukraine has highlighted the importance of developing a resilient logistics chain prepared to deal with possible disruptions. the european rail corridors must be strengthened and ports, airports and other infrastructures must be strengthened. putin knew exactly what he was doing when he attacked ukrainian ports from the very beginning, blocking them, breaking the european and global supply chain and causing an international food crisis that is destabilizing the world order. we need short-term solutions that improve connectivity between ukraine and the european continent, such as solidarity corridors, and that allow for the export of agricultural products, but also for the delivery of humanitarian aid and basic goods. the spanish government has taken the lead in one of these solidarity projects to take cereals stored in ukraine by rail to spanish ports, from where they can be exported to other countries. solidarity and responsibility are what is expected of the european union and that is what the government of pedro sánchez is already doing.
the russian invasion of ukraine has brought the blockade of the black sea ports and with it the paralysis of the flow of grain and other agricultural commodities. the situation threatens global food security and there is an urgent need to establish alternative logistical routes using all relevant modes of transport. the socialists welcome the establishment of solidarity corridors, which have allowed 2.5 million tonnes to be exported from ukraine this month, but we believe that greater coordination is needed between member states, especially those bordering ukraine, and closer monitoring to ensure that grain is transiting to north africa and the middle east. we call for the border procedures to be expedited and for silos to be set up as quickly as possible outside ukraine so as not to jeopardise the next harvest. as europeans, we have a moral obligation to ensure food security within and beyond our borders, by putting in place all possible alternatives that contribute to alleviating as much as possible the food shortages and hunger that putin's invasion is causing.
madam president, it would be very interesting to know how many thousands of tweets, photos and videos were hastily deleted after russia launched its aggression against ukraine. social media is evidence that the influence of russia and putin has gone beyond capturing elites, funding foundations or parties, or penetrating media and universities. we must deal with the russian aggression against ukraine and we must also deal with putin's ideological proxies in democratic europe. some see putin as the man of steel, the patriot, the herald of values, the representative of manhood and the hope that all that they consider doomed by the decline of the west will survive. others, nostalgic for communism, identify putin with the survival of that old communism which, after its defeat, has morphed into aggressive nationalism. well, in front of each other, let's keep looking, let's keep drawing the map of russian interference. but let us also issue a warning to those who want to act as putin's fifth column, a warning to his ideological proxies: let us know who they are and let us confront them to preserve freedom and democracy.
madam president, imagine that the government of a region of the european union was in contact with putin's russia to help abolish the constitutional order in that territory. imagine that in that region the russian interference machine had been working since 2017, aggravating a political crisis with the aim of destabilizing the union. imagine that the chairman of that meeting... i'd appreciate it if you wouldn't yell in the middle of a procedure. please, i think it's better not to cry out when a colleague has to... no? i mean, anyway. we're on the move. imagine that the government of a region of the european union was in contact with putin's russia to help abolish the constitutional order in that territory. imagine that in that region the russian interference machine had been working since 2017, aggravating a political crisis with the aim of destabilizing the european union. imagine that the president of that region met with russian emissaries days before illegally declaring independence on october 27, 2017. imagine that these emissaries allegedly proposed the sending of 10,000 soldiers and financial aid for independence. imagine that president had run away in the trunk of a car to escape justice days later. imagine that in 2017, the head of the office of this former president and current mep traveled to moscow to meet with members of putin's personal circle to, in his own words, talk not about caviar or vodka, but about matters that interest in the creation of an independent state in the future. well, don't imagine: the region is catalonia, the president, former president and current member of this parliament is carles puigdemont and the parties are the separatist parties that have allied themselves with putin's russia to try to abolish the rule of law in a european country called spain.
mr president, spain is one of the countries in europe with the greatest experience of energy oligopolies, which explains, among other things, why the price of electricity has increased tenfold in one year, from march to march. the war in ukraine has led to a 226% increase in profits for spain's large energy companies, which amounted to eur 11 billion. in spain, the owner of the water, the mills and the gas is usually the same. and so, until now, the electricity companies have been selling water for the price of gas, making sky-high profits. now, with the cap on gas prices and paying for water at the price of water and gas at the price of gas, in three days more gas has entered the system than in the entire previous month. it is a scandal, it is proof that there is no transparency, that there is no fair play in energy management. there are structural problems in spain that have never been solved. today, as in the franco era, the government continues to allow the oligopoly to make excessive profits. subsidizes the price of oil, very well. approves a rate on profits dropped from the sky, very good. but they are temporary measures and fraught with exceptions. the proposal by this parliament to impose a tax on windfall profits is certainly a step in the right direction. but if we do not end the oligopolies in spain and ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, before i begin, i would like to remind you that the man who has spoken before me is a fugitive from spanish justice and that i hope he will soon be held accountable before the spanish courts so that he can be tried with all the guarantees for the crimes of which he is accused. we are in a debate which we have been discussing practically all week, namely that citizens are experiencing the impact on their domestic economy of runaway inflation which is also having an impact on the cpi and basically on their purchasing power. there are two solutions: want to put all the blame on, as in this case, the electric companies and decide that the solution is to tax and tax their profits or take advantage of the tools that the european union is already putting in place, such as the next generation funds and repowereu to make the reforms that are needed, which include tax cuts, which include bonuses and which include investing in those projects that help us to be energy independent. and that includes nuclear and gas. that's the track.
mr president, it seems that some are calling for lower taxes on energy companies, but they are already almost zero in almost all countries and the international energy agency has said that there are 200 billion in profits falling from the sky for energy companies. there's a very clear market failure: if there are profits falling from the sky, the rules are wrong. if we can't change the rules now, we should at least tax those profits that fell from the sky. because what is not decent is that, with this inflation, the money of the citizens, of millions of humble citizens, is accumulated in very few hands. that's not decent and we have to correct it. it cannot be that the war is suffered by the most humble, because of the price of energy due to that inflation, and that those who have more have even more. so i think that measures must be drastic in this direction. we have just heard that france has just completely nationalised its main energy company. perhaps it's not the best example, because it was already in a good part of the state, but what is clear is that we have to tax those benefits that fell from the sky and then, when this crisis passes, change and reform the rules of the energy market. that's also very clear.
mr president, in the first months of 2022 the profits of companies in the energy sector have skyrocketed. behind these profits are the exploitation of the present situation, speculation in the markets, the consequences of sanctions and war. but there are also the privatisations, the liberalisation of the energy sector and the deregulation of prices that have been practised for years by the european union. they pay for the millions of households who cannot pay their energy bills or the countless micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that cannot cope with the rising costs of production and are forced to close their doors. the opulence of some is the misery of others. it is up to the states to take concrete measures, straightforwardly, to tax unexpected profits, but we must go further, by regulating the sector, controlling and fixing prices, rejecting measures such as tax reductions, without fixing prices, and using tax revenues to subsidize the profits of oil companies with perverse effects, as we see in portugal.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, let me thank you once again for this very timely debate. eu citizens have seen the price of energy soar over the past few months, and we must continue to take action to alleviate that economic burden. in this context, i am glad to see that you concur with the commission in considering that member states may make exceptional use of windfall taxes on energy companies. such a temporary tax on excessive profits may be an appropriate response to try to mitigate some of the social and economic consequences of russia’s aggression of ukraine. the debate has been very interesting and rich, and you asked many relevant questions over the debate. and, for instance, mr ferber, the impact on ability and potential of companies to invest, or the level of uncertainty on the market, and many other questions. what our services and our experts confirm is that, technically, designing and implementing a windfall tax is feasible, but it is not as straightforward as it may seem, because there are many different parameters to consider. in addition to the technical specifications regarding the definition of extraordinary profits, and thus the tax base, as well as the time period during which it would apply and refer to, and the tax rate used, one would need also to decide how to use the revenues generated at national level, at eu level, whether as a kind of own resource or something in between. we will also have to invest, consider how such a tax relates to national legislation. many, many questions to be discussed. and as i said at the beginning of this debate, we will have to discuss further. we have to continue the debate in the weeks to come to assess thoroughly also the pros and cons of different options and different parameters. but speaking about weeks to come, also, it was the opinion of many of you that we cannot discuss it forever, that it’s necessary to do something now because people, the citizens, are also getting the shockingly high bills for energy now as we speak. i would like to conclude by underlining that i take good note of your calls for a more coordinated approach in the design of windfall profits taxation schemes. the commission agrees that such coordination would be useful, and as indicated in my introductory remarks, our services are already examining whether there is scope for eu action on this matter.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, vice—president jourová, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. as we discussed in this house yesterday, energy prices’ hikes are partially linked to the overall uncertainty on the market, which is constantly nurtured by the russian war of aggression against ukraine. that is why our regulatory framework is developing so fast: the repowereu plan, fit for 55 package, and so on. yesterday we discussed in detail ways of how to tackle rising costs of living that impacts severely the most vulnerable groups of citizens and households. it becomes clear that in the context of the current energy crisis, all measures deserve exploring, including taxation of the windfall profits of energy companies. experience gained in member states which have started to use such a tax could contribute to the knowledge about the possible limits and opportunities provided by this measure. i remain convinced that taxation measures have their place among different measures that could be used in the current energy crisis, provided they are carefully designed, as vice—president jourová said. in short, each member state has an opportunity to opt for measures that are most appropriate in its specific situation. while respecting the provisions of the treaties, the council will continue to work with the commission on this important issue.
mr president, i understand that the member who has spoken after me in this debate has failed to comply with the rules of procedure which require respect between members and, for that reason, i ask the chairman of this debate to call her to order in accordance with the rules of procedure of this house. mrs benjumea, i am not a fugitive from justice, as you have said, because i came to belgium on 30 october 2017, making use of a right that i have as a european citizen, which is the right to free movement. and i am accountable to justice, contrary to what you have said, because i am accountable to a real justice, which is belgian, a democratic justice, like belgian, and not a francoist justice. mrs benjumea, i am not a fugitive from justice as you have said, because i am a member of the european parliament elected by the citizens of my country, which is catalonia, who voted for me, who gave our list, which won the elections, more than a million votes. and we are not fugitives from justice, we represent over a million citizens. but i know that this probably does not matter to you at all, because you do not care about democracy at all, because the spanish right has for decades had a very serious problem with democracy.
thank you very much. now the debate on this topic is closed. would you like to speak on the procedure? which rule are you referring to?
mr president, i simply want to reaffirm every single word i have said in the use of the word. mr comín is a fugitive from spanish justice and i hope he will be held accountable very soon.
member of the commission. – madam president, 1 july marked the 25th anniversary of hong kong’s handover and china’s promise to guarantee for 50 years hong kong’s high degree of autonomy and freedoms. with the imposition by beijing of the draconian national security law in 2020, china broke its promise 27 years before the deadline it had agreed. we have witnessed the rapid dismantling of one country, two systems. this is a breach of china’s international commitments, notably the 1984 sino-british joint declaration registered at the un as an international treaty. we have seen the rapid shrinking of space for civil society, the step-by-step shut—down of independent media, the silencing of voices of dissent. the law has been used to stifle political pluralism and the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms that are protected under hong kong law and international law. the arrests of 90-year-old cardinal zen, pro-democracy former lawmaker margaret ng, pop star denise ho wan-see and scholar hui po-keung for alleged conspiracy to collude with foreign powers marked another step in this grim trajectory. another trustee of the 612 humanitarian relief fund, former legislative council member cyd ho, was arrested on the same charges while already serving a prison sentence. hong kong has moved from being a spatial administration region of china characterised by democracy, pluralism and a vibrant civil society, to hosting one of the fastest growing populations of political prisoners in the world: 1 014 political prisoners have been held in hong kong since june 2019. more than three quarters of them are under 30 years old. the eu has spoken out repeatedly about the deterioration of the situation in hong kong. last week, on 1 july, the eu again reiterated publicly its concerns at the removal of fundamental freedoms previously enjoyed by the people of hong kong. on the ground, the eu is committed to supporting the civil society that still remains, notably by attending hearings and trials such as the first hearing of the subjects of today’s debate. china claims that what is happening in hong kong is an internal matter. we reject this. the eu has a strong stake and interest in hong kong and will not cease its support for universal values within and beyond its borders. we will continue to stand by the people of hong kong.
author. madam president, we strongly condemn the brutal murder of bruno pereira and dom phillips and demand an independent, thorough and impartial investigation by the brazilian authorities to clarify these crimes. we deeply regret that these murders are not isolated cases. brazil is the fourth most dangerous country in the world for environmentalists. in recent years, these attacks and this violence against them have only increased. therefore, the aggressive rhetoric, the verbal attacks and the intimidating speech of president bolsonaro, in this context, is not an anecdote, it is a serious threat. we deplore the dismantling of funai and ibama, the institutions responsible for monitoring indigenous peoples and environmental rights. that is why we call in this resolution for the brazilian government to fulfill its commitments and to recognize and protect indigenous lands and, with them, indigenous communities, also protecting the biodiversity unique to the planet of the amazon.
madam president, the murders of dom phillips and bruno pereira are not isolated cases. the persecution of indigenous and environmentalists is part of bolsonaro's genocidal and ecocide policy. today, brazil is not only one of the most dangerous countries for environmental and indigenous defenders, but also leads the world in deforestation rates. agro-industry, mining and indiscriminate logging have grown exponentially during the bolsonaro government, expropriating and destroying indigenous territories. a model of extractivism and environmental predation that will multiply if we do not stop the signing of the current eu-mercosur agreement. but this is not only the fault of bolsonaro's criminal policy, but european countries must take responsibility for the impacts that their business model is generating, because we do not have a planet b, because we do not have another amazon. it is essential to reject both the necropolitics of bolsonaro and the extractivist and neocolonial economic model of the eu-mercosur agreement.
author. madam president, respect for human rights is the alpha and omega of the functioning of the european union and of all democratic societies. i believe in respect for human rights and that should be the cornerstone of our relations with our partners. the still-unexplained murders of journalist dom phillips and remote community expert bruno pereira are clear evidence that there are still places where human life is of little value. both phillips and pereira have been longtime critics of brazil's policies on deforestation and treatment of segregated indigenous communities. in brazil, this profession is becoming increasingly dangerous, and it is clear that respect for human rights, and in particular the rights of activists and defenders of indigenous communities and the environment, is not improving. it's the opposite. that's why we supported this resolution. this is a warning to us and to the world. the amazon rainforest is not only a source of clean air and water, but it is also home to thousands of animal species and hundreds of hitherto little-contacted human communities. the deforestation of the amazon rainforest, the lungs of our planet, which has reached an all-time high in the past year, is an immediate threat to the entire future of our humanity. we need to realize that we need brave people who will stand up for the weak and make a clear stand against deforestation and the suppression of indigenous rights. the killing of two such brave people is therefore unacceptable and we demand that the whole incident be investigated as soon as possible and that the safety of investigative journalists, activists and all those who stand up for the rights and freedoms of those who cannot defend themselves be ensured. the brazilian government must improve the situation of human rights defenders and environmental defenders so that the killing of dom phillips and bruno pereira is the last such incident. ladies and gentlemen, it is not too often that i want to thank colleagues from all political parties who have participated in this constructive debate and in this resolution. thank you. thank you.
author. madam president, we all deeply regret the deaths of bruno pereira and dom phillips, an environmentalist and journalist, who were killed in brazil. two brave men who went out to protect the environment. we also deplore the death of virgilio trujillo arana, a 38-year-old member of the uvu-tuja people, who was killed on thursday in the state of amazonas. that's in venezuela, at the mining arch. why do we all know so much about the first two, pereira and philips, and we know nothing about trujillo, who has not appeared on any television, who has not appeared in the press, for whom no one has called for a resolution? well, because it was in venezuela, it was in the arco minero, where there are gold mines owned by some european socialists. because there are all of them or there are the farc, there is the eln and there are all those who feed the são paulo forum to keep ibero-america, to keep the continent. and they're getting it: they've got honduras, they've got peru, they've got chile, they've got colombia and now they're going for brazil, which is what they have left. that's what we're seeing, how the left is not thinking about pereira and philips, they're thinking about the election campaign of mr. lula, the head of the são paulo forum, who must take over brazil and defeat his hated bolsonaro. that's what you care about.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, the tragedy of the death of dom phillips and bruno pereira, killed for their commitment to the defense of the amazon and indigenous peoples, joins the unbearable list of more than twenty environmental defenders killed in brazil since 2020. but, besides condemning, lamenting, making "necessary" resolutions, what else can we do, apart from the traditional ideological verbiage? we need political instruments to be able to fight and to be able to do something effectively to fight for the rights of indigenous peoples. the resolutions do not put out the forest fires in the amazon, nor do they prevent the murders of environmental activists. i'm sorry, but resolutions are not for that, they're for propaganda. what can we do? use the political instruments. and what is the policy instrument that we have, where does it offer a solid framework for addressing issues concerning indigenous peoples? i will tell you: in the agreement between the european union and mercosur. and finally, before we give lessons, we should demand more from ourselves, because, for example, there are european countries which have not signed ilo convention 169.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i think we are very aware that heat waves and droughts are going to happen. the question, the problem, is why we're not ready yet. i would like to ask you a question about desertification, which is very much related to what we are discussing this morning. when will it be among the european commission's priorities to prepare and present a european union strategy on desertification? because we don't have it. in connection with the soil health act, will desertification also be covered by this act? because we have her announced, but we don't know her yet. we are not party to the united nations convention to combat desertification. however, in the soil strategy, it was said that member states would be asked to join. any word on this, mr. vice president? but we also need to know what impact droughts will have on our environment, our health and agricultural productivity. we need to know the impact that they're going to have and the impact that they're already having, because, as i say, we know that heat waves and droughts are going to happen. the problem, the question, mr vice-president of the european commission, is why we are not yet sufficiently prepared.
mr president, the lack of water is affecting sectors such as agriculture, livestock and tourism in various parts of spain. last june, it was over 40 degrees for several days, which is unusual in navarre, my homeland. the most worrying thing is that extreme weather events will become more frequent. they also mean that nature has fewer resources to deal with fires and that these fires spread very rapidly, as they did, scorching nearly 15 000 hectares of my land, forcing 9 000 people to be evicted. and it's happening in multiple places. climate change adaptation and mitigation are two outstanding issues and we are certainly not making progress in considering gas and nuclear as green energies. on the one hand, we must direct our political action towards curbing the climate emergency and, on the other, adapt our living spaces to extreme temperatures and phenomena as far as possible. in the case of drought and heat, the consequences are very tangible and immediate and certainly endanger our health and that of our environment. the hardest thing is not that we are facing the hottest summer in our history, the hardest thing is that we are facing the coldest summer in the rest of our history.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, drought is not a problem of a few, let us not make the mistake of two years ago when, in the face of the first cases of covid, some thought it was the problem of a few states. drought is a problem throughout europe and beyond. we need a common european approach to this, structured and with concrete actions. it is necessary to modernise and build new italian and european infrastructures in order to understand how to make water reserves available also with a european solidarity system. europe has invested heavily in both space research and innovation, but technologies and data can and must be better used to ensure the appropriate and responsible use of a water resource that, it seems, is not inexhaustible. the drought emergency coincides with the recent decision by the commission to reduce pesticides. to compensate for these measures, european legislation is needed for the use of assisted evolution technologies, other than gmos, to produce crops that are more resistant and resilient to new pathogens and to increasingly frequent droughts. european agriculture is going through a delicate phase, but if we want to ensure its green transition we must now worry about how to avoid a certain water emergency, otherwise we will have collapse and dependence on food from third countries.
mr. president, we need to go further and think that heat waves are no longer a one-off or a passing thing. we need to focus on those places in southern europe where, every year, we experience the longest summers, with prolonged temperatures of 35 degrees during all summer days. this results in a silent social emergency that generates, perhaps, less alarm than the big fires we see on television, but has equally serious consequences: energy poverty as severe as that of winter in cold countries. i ask you to put yourself in the shoes of a child or children in southern europe who live in these temperatures and go to a school that is not refrigerated, that is not adapted to extreme heat. how can you study like this? we spend most of our lives in buildings that are not adapted to this climate change and these extreme temperatures. commissioner, we need to adapt our cohesion policy and our solidarity funds to make our buildings and our urban environments more efficient and heat-adapted. we must reduce the suffering of these families who, day after day, endure extreme temperatures for months.
mr president, what i experienced in navarre from 15 to 19 june was an absolutely exceptional and unprecedented critical situation. the weather situation of around 40 degrees for days, thunderstorms and the drought of the land with more than fifty days without rain, have caused several fires with devastating effects. fortunately, there were no serious personal injuries and the damage to urban areas was minimal, but they have burned some 15 000 hectares in various parts of navarre, leaving serious damage to the forest, fauna and flora; an environmental disaster that the navarre government has already promised to restore quickly. and, for this, the processing of the declaration of the area seriously affected by a civil protection emergency before the state government has already begun. the possible aid from european funds, the eusf, is also being worked out, and a very substantial investment will be needed for reforestation and to support the farmers and agricultural holdings which are suffering. and that is why it is necessary to allow access to the european union solidarity fund for those who have suffered from this type of natural disaster, which is unlikely to fall within the minimum required for quantified damage but which, for a regional economy such as navarre, is devastating and of complicated economic resolution. so take care of this situation and reduce the thresholds for access to the solidarity fund so that this emergency mechanism fulfils the purpose for which it was created.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, mr rapporteur, if there is one thing we all agree on, it is that transport is one of the sectors that has done the least to reduce emissions. and within transport, aviation can also be said to be one of the sectors which has been least fulfilled, obviously because of its technological problems. it's a very difficult sector to decarbonize. this proposal is therefore very necessary for aviation to move forward on this path of reducing its emissions. we have to bet on it. and we have to make sure that the sustainable fuels we use in aviation are also consistent with the climate ambitions we have in this parliament and in the package of measures we have in objective 55. i believe that we must therefore focus on sustainable fuels in the future, and above all on synthetic fuels, fuels of non-biological origin. we must gradually close the passage and the way to those fuels that are not sustainable. that is our task and i hope that parliament's proposal will improve somewhat on the commission's good proposal, that we will be more ambitious and that we will be able to say in the future that we have also contributed to the decarbonisation of aviation and to the fight against climate change.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's responsible for 2.1 percent of global co2 emissions, and in europe it's even more, in the eu we have 3.8 percent. and that's also why this is so important, because this is one of the hardest sectors to decarbonize. we have no way of electrifying the area today, or perhaps tomorrow. we must also take the path of alternatives here. that is why openness to technology is so important, and why it is also important that we support research and development in this area. if we hear that airbus can bring a hydrogen plane to market as early as 2035, that's nice, but we have to find a solution in the medium term. that is why this regulation is right and important. however, it has been said - and this is my point - that we must ensure that what is put in the tank is not missing elsewhere. and this book and claim system is not a bad idea in my eyes. but in this form, it is ultimately not protected from abuse, and that's why we need a better alternative to it.
mr president, the price of a flight between frankfurt and palma de mallorca for 1 august is already over €400. the causes are undoubtedly various: the international situation and the increase in the exchange rates, which increases the cost considerably. by 2022, one quarter of the total cost of operations is due to fuels. in this situation, we might think that fuel prices would encourage industry to do its utmost in this respect. as we say in spain, by force they hang. it's a matter of life and death. but i believe we have the opportunity to turn necessity into virtue and develop a european market for sustainable, competitive, affordable and also accessible fuels. and let's not do it because it's legally imperative. let us do the same with the sector. in that sense, we need public-private partnership, we need incentives, we need investment and also flexibility so that we give the industry - first of all, not criminalize it - the resources and time to be able to do that. in short, if we do nothing, the price increases will multiply and we will do the opposite of what we want, which is not, in this case, the democratization of flights. finally, i would like to thank and congratulate my colleague, søren gade, the rapporteur, for his excellent work in this regard. (the speaker agrees to reply to an intervention under the 'blue card' procedure)
thank you so much for your question. well, let’s talk about some figures. you don’t say that only 2% of co2 emissions are because of the aviation sector. and we have to allow that the industry can rise to that goal. if we are doing alone without counting with that industry, we’ll be alone and it will be possible to democratise, obviously, this situation. not only the use of the flight – the aviation sector is not only for tourism, it’s as well for business, it works for small and medium companies to allow them to show their products. it’s as well for healthy situation. therefore, many questions ... don’t do populism with that, use the right figures – only 2% of co2 emissions are due to the aviation sector.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a text which aims to decarbonise the aviation sector. the stakes are high: aviation emissions are exploding, aviation already accounts for 3% of global emissions and air traffic will continue to increase by more than 50% by 2035. we need to decarbonize this sector and replace kerosene, which is one of the most polluting fuels in the world, with sustainable fuels. but they must also be truly sustainable. i call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against adding palm oil derivatives such as pfad or food crops to the list of these sustainable fuels and to return to the definition as proposed by the european commission. the climate emergency is here. let us invest in the most sustainable fuels, such as synthetic fuels, hydrogen and electricity, but not in substances that will have a strong environmental and social impact on deforestation, which will be terrible in the coming years, not to mention the negative image that our aviation industry in europe would have. let's make the right choice for the climate and for future generations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. after all, it was the pioneers who invented the flying machine in the last century. it has given us a sense of freedom, but our freedom is now threatened. threatened by the black imprint we leave behind every time we fly. we are now in a new century, on the threshold of a new era. an era of green air travel. it is time to act, because the green transition of aviation is not going to happen by itself. it requires investment and pioneering spirit, because the transition is through sustainable aviation fuels - fuels that are not in abundance right now. but if we want more sustainable fuel in the tank, we have to increase demand. it's simple logic, you know. large-scale production is the way to cheap green fuel. europe does not need a bureaucratic ceiling on green ambitions. europe needs room for high political ambition and freedom for those who want to take the lead in investing in and developing sustainable aviation fuels. because only in this way can we secure cheaper alternatives to fossil fuels in the future. it is time to give the green pioneers of our time the freedom to pave the way for the aircraft of the future.
president, and søren, branch, we are taking a flight together towards greener aviation. a european air traffic interchange rate is of unprecedented importance. i also hear voices around me saying, "it's not going far enough" or "it's not going far enough". it's just a drop in the bucket. on the contrary, as far as i'm concerned. look at the netherlands. even the netherlands is sprinting towards a 14% blending obligation in 2030. but with this proposal we are also taking a leap forward with biofuels, with synthetic fuels. both will help towards a sustainable and future-proof aviation and eventually also electric or hydrogen-powered flying. there are plenty of opportunities! every airline that lands and refuels at european airports contributes to the admixture rate, including airlines from countries where the rules on fair competition are sometimes a little less strict. that is the power of this proposal: a level playing field for all. i am ready for take-off.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that a joint effort is needed to achieve the climate objectives and that aviation must also contribute. sustainable saf fuels are a crucial step. we need a medium- and long-term strategy for europe to produce and supply this type of fuel, because the energy independence we are so anxiously seeking also depends on these actions. this regulation is central to the creation of a healthy market for sustainable fuels. the measures contained in them must therefore be evaluated without ideological dogmas. the minimum quota of saf to be introduced as a requirement from 2025 is crucial, as the key is to ensure the same use obligations throughout the european union. the system requiring all european operators to refuel at least 90% of their fuel needs at their union airports of departure should also be supported, to avoid circumvention of the saf rule. we need to prepare ourselves for the adoption of new zero-emission technologies in time, so we need to ask our airports to equip themselves with the necessary infrastructure for hydrogen and electricity charging.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must start from the idea that air transport is extremely important for the economy and that air transport in the european union is not alone on earth. we have air travel in other parts of the world, where certainly emissions are much higher than in the european union, where we have only 2 percent. i agree that we need to work on decarbonising the aviation sector, but we need to do it rationally and i am glad, commissioner, that you have also thought about the impact on companies, on the industry. we have to do it gradually. technological neutrality is necessary, but we have to do it at a pace that industry can step in. i will not be able to vote on all the amendments, for example, those which have an impact on small airports and small operators. we have to think about them too, and yes, we see how indispensable transport is now, when it's upside down, and what a negative effect it has on citizens, on the economy, on tourism. now we have to take rational action and i'm glad it's colleagues who have said this. we need to decarbonize at the pace that the industry can afford.
member of the commission. – mr president, this has been a very interesting and lively exchange, which confirms that we are in the making of a decisive piece of legislation for the future of sustainable aviation. and i have taken good note of the points made. some of you expressed concerns that the original commission proposal was not ambitious enough. refueleu aviation will be the first regulation in the world to set binding e-fuel obligations on fuel suppliers. this is very ambitious. it is proposed by the commission, taking into account the status of the industry, the expected development of the industry, the high needs in renewable electricity and hydrogen, and the additional costs for airlines. however, when it comes to setting legally binding e-fuel targets, we need to be cautious. setting e-fuels targets too high would risk undermining the credibility of our framework, risks shortages of supply, imposes significant penalties for non-compliance on our industry, or imposes a disproportionate financial burden on airlines. and of course, it is very welcome if the industry is in a position to supply or use more e-fuels on a voluntary basis. our proposal certainly aims to encourage the industry to do so. the commission also suggests that the regulation should support predominantly advanced biofuels and e-fuels, which will be needed in very large volumes in the mid-term and long term. and supporting low-end feedstock will not make it easier to reach the targets, but will create risks of lock-ins, and there is a reputational risk associated with the expansion of the definition. aviation needs clean fuels to decarbonise, not a controversy on the sustainability of safs. and i would like to conclude by calling on the plenary to take a pragmatic approach towards the vote and consider this necessary milestone to engage in fruitful discussions with the council on an issue that could not be more timely. and of course, the commission services will remain available to support parliament as much as possible during these dialogues.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 7 july 2022, at 12 noon.
following the resignation of ms constanze krehl, parliament shall, in accordance with its rules of procedure, declare her seat vacant with effect from 3 october 2022 and inform the competent national authorities.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr tiemo wölken, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on 'better regulation: working together to improve legislation' (2021/2166 (ini)) (a9-0167/2022).
rapporteur. – mr president, better lawmaking should be a common goal for all eu lawmakers. it is the core of our work. we owe it to the european citizens to make sure that european legislation is ambitious, fit for the purpose, proportionate, clear, transparent and comprehensive. this can, however, only be achieved by increasing transparency, accountability, cooperation between the institutions – unfortunately, the council is not present – the member states, citizens and stakeholders. better regulation helps us to ensure that eu policies and legislation are geared towards the future and serve society. indeed, there were several very good aspects integrated in the commission’s better regulation communication. thank you very much for that. but sometimes with good also comes bad, and here i would like to focus on two specific things that i personally still am very sceptical about. while conducting our work, we need to be able to gain the trust of eu citizens and take them with us along the legislative process. in order to gain trust there needs to be transparency. when looking at the regulatory scrutiny board, especially said transparency is simply missing. we have a board that is composed of seven members, none of them elected, meaning that they are not accountable to citizens or us as policymakers. additionally, four out of seven board members are commission employees, decreasing credibility and weakening its independence. i am very concerned to see that one of the objects set out by the commission is to strengthen the board. for example, i believe that transparency in regard to scrutiny board meetings with stakeholders, reviews, recommendations and opinions should be significantly improved. moreover, the work of the board should not ultimately affect the commission’s capacity to propose legislation or unduly delay the adoption of legislative proposals. in 2021 alone, one third of the impact assessments received a negative first opinion by the board, leading to delays. and speaking about delays, the board gave two negative opinions on the due diligence proposal, and now we have to work here in parliament under extreme time pressure. the board can only provide an effective check on the commission’s work if it is independent and impartial, so this needs to be established. therefore, we are calling for the independence of the board and for transparency of the board’s meetings through making use of the transparency register mandatory, and also by publishing reviews, recommendations and opinions without any delay. and this is what i need to underline here – without any delay. secondly, the one-in-one-out approach which the commission disappointingly introduced unilaterally without a prior impact assessment or consultation. i am personally very sceptical about this approach. i believe that the energy that will be required by commission staff to tick the box could indeed be usefully used somewhere else. i believe that this approach must, under no circumstances, run counter to the objective of better regulation. moreover, this approach should not lead to mechanical decisions of repeating legislation just for the sake of it. this is why we are calling for this approach to be based on a transparent and evidence-based methodology, giving proportionate consideration to all sustainability aspects, both in terms of benefits and costs, including the costs of non-compliance and inaction, and taking into account the administrative, social, environmental and public health impacts. coming back to transparency, we call on you, commissioner, to take the one-in-one-out calculator, to make it public as soon as possible and to obtain the support of all institutions before applying this approach. and one last note: i would like to thank all my colleagues and their teams who have contributed to the discussion on this report. i am looking forward to the discussion and colleagues, commissioner, let us build trust together with all the institutions.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first and foremost, i want to underline how much i appreciate your interest and support for making sure that we do an even better job in a better regulation. i also would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tiemo wölken, and all those who provided input for this very comprehensive report. indeed, in these challenging times, high-quality and efficient legislation is more important than ever so we can deliver maximum benefits for our citizens and businesses, and the way how we do it really matters. we need to work together, and i agree with mr wölken, to boost engagement, and to work on transparency and trust of our policies. to that end, we have been working to follow up on the communication we presented last year and this has included updating our better regulation guidelines and toolbox. i am sure that you are well informed that the toolbox now comprises 69 different tools, including a specific one focusing on all aspects of equality, fundamental rights and human rights. progress has been made and i am pleased that our new generation better regulation is recognised as one of the most advanced regulatory systems in the world. the oecd, for example, ranks us as best on stakeholder consultations and evaluation. mr wölken was referring to the regulatory scrutiny board and i want to underline that its independence and best practices are actually part of the success. i am convinced that they are doing an excellent job by giving us crucial feedback on the quality and coherence of impact assessments and the evaluation we carry out, and on whether proportionality and subsidiarity are being respected. if i could react very briefly to the comments just made by mr wölken in this regard, i want to tell you that the regulatory scrutiny board is truly independent. and the fact that they are very strict in their impact assessment and they are not afraid to return quite a few even very important legislative proposals just proves that they do their job well, because i think when we want to legislate we have to make sure that we legislate in a high quality, in a professional, in a good way. and if – and it happens in every administration – a dg does not do its job properly, i think it’s only the right thing to send it back; so we would prepare and we’ll come in front of you with a high-quality legislation, with proper impact assessments, and with all the pluses and minuses properly evaluated. on top of it i also would like to reassure you that they are under no political pressure whatsoever and that they really do their job independently. we are working with them to make sure that all the new or additional transparency requirements are properly met. i have to say that when i looked at your report i was very pleased to see that the european parliament and the commission, we share the same ambitions on many aspects of better regulation. i am also glad to say that many of your calls for actions have been already addressed, even though i agree – and this is what our debate will be about – how to make it even better, even of higher quality in the future. if you look at some of your calls from the last period, you asked us to make sure that we would optimise our consultation process and we did it. we did it through our new call for evidence. i hope you would agree with me that now it’s more focused, it’s more user-friendly, and it’s available in all official eu languages. we are also more transparent on how replies are taken into account using new feedback tools. so if there was a complaint in the past, okay, we sent you our position but we never heard from you. it was a kind of black box. now that’s not happening. we are giving the feedback. we are responding to the evidence or to the contributions we are receiving. i also would like to thank the european parliament and to all of you who participated in the conference on the future of europe for pushing forward another very innovative idea and this is the use of the european citizens’ panel for even closer consultations with our citizens on our proposals. and i am also glad to tell you that we are now looking into the way how to use the digital platform we used for the conference for even better consultations and better reach out, especially to younger citizens who are used to the digital tools. and i believe it would definitely give them a stronger voice. in addition, we are working on a more user-friendly repository of evidence for all legislative acts, evaluations and data sets to improve transparency and accessibility, to further improve the analysis and reporting on key economic, social and environmental impacts, in particular linked to the green and digital transitions. and our dedication to the twin transition is reflected in the adoption of the ‘do no significant harm’ and ‘digital by default’ principles, which i know are very important to this house, and we had several debates on these in the committee or in the plenary or bilaterally. we also perform systematically a climate consistency check, which is very, very important, as this morning’s debate on the heatwave and drought has confirmed. our 2022 strategic foresight report, published last week, looks at reinforcing synergies resulting from twinning and the twinning of green and digital transitions. and overall, we have mainstream strategic foresight to ensure that our legislation is fit for the future. mr wölken was also making reference to out ‘one in, one out’ approach which we have further integrated in our approach to help minimise regulatory costs for citizens and businesses. and i can reassure you again that this is not a mechanical, this is not a deregulatory exercise, but one based on the new working methods with improved efforts on quantification. we started with a pilot project last year and will report on its outcome in this year’s annual burden survey where we will have more data, and i believe that you will make your own assessment of the process. and the future additions of the burden surveys will then report on overall offsetting, not only where the burden is coming from, but how we are going to offset it. and i am also glad to see that parliament is also very ambitious as we are when it comes to the impact assessment. there were, of course, cases for reasons of political urgency, such as the covid-19 pandemic, where it has been impossible to carry out a proper impact assessment. but when there is such a case, we will, and we did it also in the past, explain the reason why we could not do the impact assessment, and we produced a report with all the evidence within three months for your very detailed examinations. i would like also to underline that we do not always need the impact assessment, such as when the proposals concern matters where there is little or no choice available or where no significant impact is reasonably expected. regarding delegated and implementing acts, they are usually defined by empowerments in the basic acts, which does not give much choice for the commission. however, we agree that there are instances where such analyses can be useful and we appreciate the european parliament bringing such cases to our attention. honourable members, i would like to congratulate the european parliament for a very important step you have taken. you established your own dedicated directorate to look at the impact assessment and the european added value. this has been an important step so that better lawmaking does not just remain a common objective but, with your directorate, it also has become a common effort. and i applaud that parliament has started to carry out its own impact assessment related to substantial amendments introduced by co-legislators. the council is not there yet, but we all need to work together as otherwise we risk missing links and we risk being ineffective. the commission stands ready to re-engage and engage collectively with parliament and the council to give even greater effect to our joint commitment to better regulation. and i would conclude by calling upon all of us to join forces to deliver on our ambitions for our citizens and businesses, and i really would like to thank you not only for great cooperation, for a very important report, and for all the communications we had in the meantime on how to make our regulation better for now and for the future.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on constitutional affairs. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent work on this very welcome report. i see a broad consistency with the far-reaching positions and views that we as a constitutional committee are bringing to the work of developing the important eu legislation that needs to be made transparent. the longest comment afco has ever made on a report. we must understand that legislation has a lot to do with the daily lives of people in the 27 member states and the eu. it is these regulations that make possible the foundation of our prosperity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. the impact assessment of each initiative is therefore needed on an individual basis. i personally think that the one-in-one-out principle is inappropriate, since it applies purely formal criteria for evaluating legislation. it's the content that counts. the fight against climate change, and the confidence of citizens in the legislative process should be taken into account, particularly with a view to the consistent implementation of the recommendations of the conference on the future consistent and inclusive renegotiation of treaties. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply, but i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his work.
the committee on petitions has already adopted a number of amendments. mr president, it is essential to ensure that citizens exercise their democratic right to participate fully in the european deliberative process, ensuring their active role in direct democracy processes. to do this, it is essential that the institutions look into the issue of transparency, which is often called into question, as was the case with the european citizens' initiative minority safepack, which was ultimately rejected by the commission. the digital transition is an opportunity to ensure key citizen participation in securing fundamental rights, so necessary in this context of constant threat from reactionary sectors, respecting fundamental rights and fighting discrimination against women, people, migrants and lgbti+ people. finally, i would like to stress that the text contains the right of legislative initiative by the european parliament through the revision of the treaties, for example through the convention. it is also essential that the channels of participation, including those of the member states, be opened at local and regional level, and that the reality of stateless nations be taken into account.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr tiemo wölken, on his thorough preparation of this report, as he always does. we in the european parliament want to improve the whole cycle of european policy development in an open, transparent process that stands the test of time, allows informed decisions and has the support of society. we seek to strengthen effectiveness, transparency and accountability so that our institutions are more reliable and efficient and thereby gain strength on the one hand and the trust of citizens on the other. all this in a framework of dual digital and green transformation, post-covid recovery and conflict on the eastern border of the union. i would like to dwell on the question of communication and interaction with stakeholders and the general public, the first and last objective of the proposal. in our ambition to improve everything with the vision of those who have the training, the tools, the support and the time to fill out questionnaires, we must not lose sight of our fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed, micro-enterprises, the self-employed. they too must be able to make use of an easily accessible space and participate in an economically affordable process that enables them to communicate their demands in an agile and effective manner. that is why it is so important that the strength of this industrial fabric that moves europe and all its citizens is digitally enlightened.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! better legislation has been a matter of great concern to us in the european parliament for many years, and we should therefore like to thank our rapporteur for his excellent report. i would like to highlight an initiative which is particularly important to me and for which i have made a strong effort: i believe that the most important thing is that the websites which inform our citizens and our companies about the possibilities of financing and support from the european union should also be available in all the official languages. i know the commission is working on it. mr president, i would like to ask you once again to implement this by the end of the year - that is the way it was intended to be implemented. i think it's a requirement of fairness that even non-english speaking citizens know what they have in terms of funding opportunities, in terms of funding opportunities. we have billions of programmes to put in place, and therefore i believe it is a matter of fairness to inform about them in all the official languages.
mr president, i would like to express a very special thanks to my colleague, mr tiemo wölken, for this excellent report on such an important subject as improving the legislative and regulatory procedure. i would also like to thank the vice-president of the commission for his presence. the report highlights the new positive elements launched by the commission, such as the strengthening of the accessibility of the public consultation platform for people with disabilities and the commitment to incorporate the sustainable development goals as a cross-cutting element. it is also essential to stress the commitments formally undertaken by all the union institutions, such as the creation of a joint legislative register containing all publicly disclosed documents and the improvement of the transparency of the decision-making process, particularly in the council, and of access to documents on all its activities.
mr president, the title of this report is well chosen: 'joining forces to improve legislation'. i think that to have better laws we must first join forces with the citizens. and rightly so, it's no longer enough to involve citizens only once every five years, when there's an election. i think it is time to create a mechanism of permanent consultation with citizens to be part of the process of preparing the european commission's work programme.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the call for a streamlined european law-making process is entirely justified. our procedures are opaque and completely incomprehensible to the public. the lack of transparency in the decision-making process is proof that the democratic deficit is one of the european union's biggest shortcomings. unfortunately, this report itself is an example of the disastrous way our institution creates documents. instead of clear suggestions and recommendations on how to create better laws, we have here a mass of random and general statements, political declarations and ideological postulates. it is far too long, too much of a text, and it mixes up important issues with completely irrelevant ones, and with issues that have absolutely nothing to do with creating effective and understandable legislation. if this is parliament's way of trying to convince someone that it knows how to make better legislation, i do not think it will succeed.
the president, the president of the european union, is able to create better standards and create legislation to achieve the union's objectives. it is, of course, important to be aware of the enormous impact that the single market could have on all member states. we have to make sure we don't do anything illegal, and we're going to do something illegal and we're going to do it right. and working with my afco group on 'better real estate', i'm glad to see that there is better support to give the 24 million people we have in the eu. also, i think it's more important to have a better relationship with the people who can help us achieve our goals. but especially, you should be able to get rid of the teapot and put it back on the ground.
mr president, dear commissioner šefčovič, we need to deliver concrete improvements in implementing the better regulation principles. we need to aim at true simplification when european policymakers address issues that are beyond national borders. at the same time, more progress has to be made with member states to counter gold plating and reduce the administrative burden with which citizens and businesses struggle every day. commissioner, i remind you that smes constitute 99.8% of our european businesses. they do not have the resources that larger companies have to adapt fast to complex new regulations. this is why it’s even more important that new commission proposals, especially when they come in packages, prove that the one-in, one-out principle is respected. moreover, it is crucial that the commission applies the sme test to any new proposal and takes it into account in the impact assessment. finally, i appreciate that this commission is launching open consultation more often. however, i plead with you to consider extended deadlines to allow smes and their representatives to gather adequate information and deliver their feedback.
mr president, today we are hearing a report on better lawmaking, an example of how we should not legislate: sectarian, biased and incomprehensible. they still don't realize or, worse, they don't give a damn that there's an energy crisis out there because of their climate fanaticism, inflation and rate hikes that are going to bring down the middle and working classes. what you're proposing is not to legislate better, it's to legislate more, in the same direction, the globalist agenda. fifteen times the weather is mentioned; zero, the family. five times the 2030 agenda and only one job. the best thing about the commission's proposal, which was 'for every rule more, a rule less', you reject it, because the more rules, obligations and burdens are imposed on families, businesses and member states, the better for you. i propose to you how to legislate: do not make ridiculous and sectarian reports. they respect the treaties and national governments and parliaments when acting within their sphere of competence. eliminate rules and regulations and, above all, do not legislate for yourself or the stakeholders, but for those who are most in need: those who are out there and do not have an electric car or a driver to take them home, but who live in desperation for the future that is coming, without security in their pockets or security in the streets.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the truth is that cycling is sustainable, it gives you freedom, it is beautiful, it is healthy... well, it's healthy as long as it's safe. a few days ago, the world champion, alejandro valverde, was hit by a car in spain. so, cycling is healthy when it is safe, and for that to be so, we need good infrastructure. when we talk about mobility, we must always think about multimodality and the opportunity that cycling offers us to make our cities cleaner. that is what we are calling for, that there should be safe infrastructure and that, within the framework of the cycling strategy we are calling for, european standards should be established for the safety of bicycles in our cities. now, to buy a bicycle, we have to wait a year or two, when the big market for bicycles is europe, so we also demand that they be made here. we have to encourage that manufacturing, not bring it in from outside, because we have the market here. we have to help that industry and give priority to that industry, because not only do we have the market, but the greatest cycling mobility is in europe. the greatest opportunity is in cities like strasbourg or many of the cities in the netherlands or denmark, which can serve as examples and which we all have to embrace as good elements for the sustainability of our lives. the bicycle is life, it is health and it protects our heart, the heart of all europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank mrs müller and the other members for their constructive cooperation. the report does indeed acknowledge the problems we have. he recognizes that we still have a problem with deforestation, that forests are becoming carbon sinks instead of sinks, that we have a problem with water storage capacity, that we are adding to the soil with industrial forestry. the report acknowledges these problems. has he found the courage to put forestry in close contact with nature at the heart of the european forestry strategy? i'm afraid not natural-based mixed-species forestry, with permanent soil cover, with natural rejuvenation, has the highest water storage capacity, the highest co2 storage capacity, and allows a good harvest of wood and a wonderful mix of biodiversity in the forests. unfortunately, this form of forestry has only been given the status of a niche farm with a nice certificate, like organic farming. but the courage to say that this is the kind of forestry that meets all the social and economic conditions that we need in the 21st century - yes, to use wood as a raw material, but above all to bind co2 in the soil and then also to keep it bound in the soil - this chance to make a clear statement here on behalf of parliament, unfortunately we have not fully used. however: some important steps have already been outlined. the problems are clearly identified and it is up to the next round of negotiations to finally bring about a breakthrough in the good, correct and effective model.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, forests cover 43% of the surface of the european union. sustainable management is therefore a major challenge, both economically and ecologically. but contrary to what the müller report claims, forest management is a national competence and not a shared competence with the union. i therefore do not agree that the union should interfere. france is perfectly capable of managing its forests. it has even acquired expertise in this field with its national forestry office. it does not need the commission's patronage and its punitive and retrograde approach to environmental protection. i would add that this intervention is to be financed by levies from the budget of the common agricultural policy. i am also against it, because farmers do not need to be made worse off by reducing the budget allocated to them.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am very concerned about the commission's new forestry strategy, and i am concerned because it lacks an understanding of the broad role of forests and the forestry sector and because, in addition to ignoring the competence of the member states in this respect, it reduces the role of forests to mainly environmental considerations, forgetting the important socioeconomic aspects. under the treaties of the european union, responsibility for forests lies with the member states, and all forest-related initiatives must respect the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality and therefore the competences of the member states in this field. as much as they may try, there is no single european forest: there is a french forest, an italian forest, a finnish forest, a swedish forest... the commission, in seeking to introduce a single forestry strategy for the whole of the european union and disregarding regional differences, does not understand that the forests of the european union have different ages and therefore different levels of biodiversity. the european commission, and also the european parliament, are taking small steps, but they are encroaching on the rights of the member states. the measures taken by the union must be proportionate and limited, that is the meaning of the treaty: we are not a federation. the european union should simply set the course at a very general level, leaving the decision on what to do to the member states.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the surveillance systems and the 'predator' spyware in greece (2022/2821 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr vice— president, honourable members, commissioner, from the outset, i would like to express the full commitment of the member states to the principle of the protection of privacy as enshrined in the charter and in our general data protection regulation, which set very high standards for the protection of individual freedoms. the european institutions and the member states have a joint responsibility and a duty to ensure the fulfilment of these standards and to investigate adequately and condemn any form of illegal surveillance. a journalist needs to feel safe to contact a source, political opponents must be able to express their views, and a human rights activist must feel able to defend these causes far from political pressure or interference. our legislation is also very strict and clear about the situations where the right to privacy may be limited, namely for law enforcement purposes. european rules on the protection of human rights strictly regulate these exceptions and apply the highest level of safeguards to avoid any abuse. under this legal framework, it is for each member state to carry out the necessary investigations on allegations of illegal surveillance measures and to put in place the adequate tools to prevent and combat vulnerabilities. one of our major vulnerable vulnerabilities today is that of our cybersecurity. cybersecurity not only aims at protecting economic activity or critical infrastructure; it is also about protecting electronic devices such as smartphones, where we keep so much of our private and professional data. the european union is also stepping up its efforts in the area of security. this is a priority for the czech presidency. in this connection, i would like to highlight the agreement between this parliament and the council to boost precisely our cybersecurity and resilience through the nis2 directive. the czech presidency is committed to working on other cybersecurity legislative measures, in particular, the regulation on cybersecurity for eu institutions, bodies and agencies, and we are expecting a proposal tomorrow from the commission on cyber resilience. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the commission has said on many occasions, and i want to repeat it, we strongly condemn any illegal access to communications systems. it is true that it is for the member states to define their essential security interests and to adopt the appropriate measures to ensure their internal and external security; they're the only ones who know about it. however, the member state must be able to demonstrate that its internal security is effectively compromised in the case in question. a mere reference to national security is not sufficient to exclude the application of union law, as the case law of the court of justice of the union clearly indicates. it must be based on concrete and substantial elements. as regards the situation in greece, the commission services wrote to the greek government following information that the predator software was allegedly used by the greek intelligence agency. this exchange of letters concerned the interaction between national legislation and the european acquis on data protection. the greek authorities have undertaken to inform the commission of the results of the ongoing investigations. we had sent similar letters to several other member states following the revelations about the pegasus software. the alleged use of spyware in greece was also mentioned in the chapter on greece in the annual rule of law report adopted by the commission last july. the commission does not have jurisdiction to deal with individual cases. nor are we in a position to assess the extent to which a reference to the national security exception is actually justified in a specific case. this role is the responsibility of the national authorities, in particular the judicial authorities, which may, where appropriate, have access to the files concerned. the commission is continuing to gather factual and legal information on the interaction between european law and national legislation and will assess the issue in the light of all available information. ladies and gentlemen, beyond the situation in greece and, as the commission has underlined in the rule of law report, member states must supervise and control their security services to ensure that they fully respect eu law, including fundamental rights such as the protection of personal data, the confidentiality of communications, media freedom and freedom of expression. the commission expects national authorities to thoroughly examine the reported use of spyware and to restore citizens' trust. i also wish to recall that the eu has a strong legal framework for data protection and privacy. i would like to refer to several pieces of legislation. under the eprivacy directive, any tapping, recording, storing or other types of interceptions or monitoring of communications by other persons than the user is prohibited. but measures taken by public authorities to safeguard national security fall outside the scope of the e-privacy directive if they can be justified under the national security exception. furthermore, law enforcement authorities may restrict the confidentiality of communications to combat criminal offences, provided that the law enforcement measures taken are necessary and proportionate in a democratic society and respect the essence of the fundamental right to privacy. the adoption of a new eprivacy regulation will further strengthen the provisions of the current e-privacy directive. it will notably further harmonise the rules and overcome fragmentation, putting even more emphasis on the confidentiality of communications. and it will strengthen the enforcement and sanction powers of the supervisory authorities. it is therefore essential to conclude the trilogue negotiations on the eprivacy regulation swiftly. moreover, the directive on attacks against information systems requires member states to ensure that illegal system access and illegal interception are punishable as a criminal offence in their national criminal law. finally, any processing of personal data by public authorities, including law enforcement authorities, falls within the scope of the eu data protection acquis: the gdpr and the law enforcement directive. this is to the extent that the national security exception does not apply, which, as i said, is subject to strict conditions of necessity and proportionality. these rules must be respected and national supervisory authorities and national courts have an important role to play in this respect. the commission expects that they will make full use of all their powers. let me also mention some upcoming initiatives that the commission will be taking. the commission will present this week a proposal for a european cyber resilience act, which will set out cybersecurity requirements for products with digital elements, both hardware and software. this will, in general, contribute to making digital products more secure and less vulnerable to spyware attacks. the proposal for a european media freedom act, which the commission will present this week as well, notably aims to enhance the protection of journalists. i thank you, of course, for your attention to the opportunities of such a debate and i am now looking forward to listening to your speeches, to future exchanges in commission, in committees, but also in plenary about this subject.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it is not our first debate on spyware in europe, and it probably will not be our last. we were absolutely right earlier this year to set up our committee of inquiry into this matter, because it goes without saying that illegal surveillance of members communications is unacceptable. as we have also said from the beginning, this is not about a particular member state or a particular technology. it is about all member states and all technologies. we have to investigate the full width and depth of the situation in europe, and that’s what we are doing. so far, we have held 11 hearings, we heard from 43 persons from commissioners to tech companies, from victims to academics, from cybersecurity experts to human rights defenders. we travelled to israel, we will travel to poland next week and we sent detailed questions to all member states and it would be nice also if we can get an update – because i know these questions have been discussed in council – on where we are with the answers to those questions. parliament is doing its job, the pega committee is doing its job and we should also let it do its job. as much as i understand the political appeal of debating specific cases in plenary, i really think the focus should be on our common work in the committee. we had an interesting hearing on greece last thursday with victims, journalists and representatives of the government. we will meet with even more people when we travel to greece later this year and the greek authorities have been cooperating with our committee, which is a whole lot more than can be said of many other member states. we need to investigate before we draw conclusions and there is plenty of work still to do and we must continue our work in a thorough but also an objective manner.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, i would like to thank the services of the european parliament from the bottom of my heart, because it was thanks to them that the attempt to trap my mobile phone with the predator software became known. as was later revealed by the investigations of the authority for the protection of communications privacy in greece, an independent authority established thanks to our paramilitary, on the same exact days the national intelligence service officially started to monitor my mobile phone. a watch that "by diabolical coincidence" lasted as long as the election process for the leadership of the panhellenic socialist movement; from september when i ran for office, until december 2021 when i was elected president. their aim was the autonomy of pasok. the prime minister called me yesterday to go and get briefed by the nsa on the typical "of course" reasons i was being watched. but he's asking me to do something that's been made illegal by a law of his government. in fact, as we learn, my file was destroyed the same day the independent authority was informed of my complaint. why would i do that ? the greek people, mr mitsotakis, must know the truth. in a legal and transparent way. so may the prime minister, as the political head of the secret services, in accordance with law 3649 of 2008, lift the secrecy and make known the reason for my surveillance, instead of continuing to poison public opinion by dividing the greek people with conspiracy theories. also, all persons who are 'based on journalistic research' and are related to the use of these software should be called to the review committee, both in greece and in the pega committee. we tried that last week in greece, but the majority in government rejected it. from the outset, i have made it clear that this case is not a personal matter, it is a matter of transparency and democracy. the secret services must operate within a democratic framework and protect the political system from illegal software, not cover up its use. in democracies no government agency can operate in total darkness. privacy ends where the need for transparency and accountability begins. we cannot tolerate a new normal in which the surveillance of politicians, parties, journalists, judges and every ordinary citizen is considered legitimate in advance. this is exactly what big brother is: the cult of privacy and individual rights in the name of a vague and secret national need. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. authoritarian leaders like putin and erdogan directly undermine our common future and liberal democracy. and yet, sad to say, some, while condemning them, imitate some of their practices. the control of the media, the entrapment of political opponents and the instrumentalisation of the judiciary have no place in the european union. this is not the european way of life. this is not the rule of law. we need a new institutional framework to shield all european citizens from the arbitrariness of governments and oligarchs who may in future exploit these software to the detriment of the public interest. i therefore call on the european parliament and all our colleagues to take the lead in the fight to protect the rights and dignity of every european citizen.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, minister, now imagine that you’re a greek journalist or indeed an opposition leader, or you’re a hungarian ngo, or you’re a polish lawyer or a catalan politician, and you’re listening to this debate and you say, ‘i’m so reassured, europe is going to protect me.’ i do not think so. because i believe you when you’re personally saying that you’re committed to privacy and data protection. but when i also hear both of you say, ‘but it is the national authorities who are in charge’, this is where the problem is. yes, the national authorities are in charge, but they are the perpetrators. they are the perpetrators! it is national governments spying on citizens for political reasons. that has no place in a democracy! they are breaking democracy. and i would expect the european institutions – well, i’m sorry, but i can’t count the council because as i said, the perpetrators are actually in the council – but i count on the european commission, and on this house, but also on europol to do their job: not to protect the governments, but to protect the citizens of europe and to protect the democracy of europe.
mr. president, there is no room for jokes about "mistakes" and invoking of secrecy by the government of the new democracy in the very serious allegations of the surveillance of nikos androulakis, other politicians, journalists and an entire party, the communist party of greece, given that since 2016 there have been repeated and proven interceptions in its call center. it is the height of hypocrisy for the european union and the european parliament to pretend to be the supposedly ignorant 'neutral observers' who 'search for the underground routes of spyware', because such reactionary mechanisms have been activated by eu regulations and directives in the name of fighting 'terrorism' and radicalism. as is the regulation legalizing the development and sale of spyware, which the european parliament voted last year. this dark legislative framework was supported by the new democracy government, together with syriza-pasok, and is also applied in greece. their responsibilities are great. to intensify the fight against cover-ups, to abolish the dangerous legislative framework of the european union, bourgeois states and their governments against the people and their struggles.
mr. chairman, please! the testimony of greek journalists who were spied on using the predator program is remarkably similar to what happened in poland with the pegasus program. the parallels are obvious: spying on journalists, politicians, including the head of the opposition party's election campaign, prosecutors who initiate proceedings inconvenient for the government. it's all the same. the difference was that senior greek officials attended the commission's meeting, while polish officials mr ziobro or mr kamiński refused to attend. they listen to the rulers who want to help themselves stay in power, win the next election, silence the press, convince the public that everything is totally ok. and they do it so that the world doesn't know about the corruption, the destruction of the state that they themselves are committing. we are seeking to clarify this matter in depth and i very much hope for close and good cooperation with the european commission, because we need to protect our european societies from such a subtle attack on democracy.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my full solidarity with our colleague nikos androulakis, because also as a victim of pegasus, and also as a member of the european parliament, i fully understand the anger, indignation and helplessness he feels. we are witnessing a serious attack on democracy and rights. the lack of transparency on the part of the member states and the lack of firmness on the part of the european institutions in demanding accountability and taking measures to protect european citizens are unacceptable. but, ladies and gentlemen, i now address you directly. what authority do we have to criticise the commission or the member states if a mission, for example to the spanish state, is being blocked here in this house for purely political reasons? let us remember that this is the country where the catalangate, the biggest mass spying scandal in europe, took place. if we want to be credible, let's start by being honest.
mr president, after the case of mass surveillance and espionage in spain against catalan politicians, our lawyers, our families and even university professors, this practice and scandal was also happening in greece. our colleague nikos androulakis was one of the many targets, and i want to express my solidarity. these two governments denied any involvement or simply justified it citing allegedly legal purposes. the evidence gathered by citizen lab shows who may have an interest in spying on activists, uncomfortable politicians and journalists. the case of greece and spain demonstrated that the democratic values of the european union are threatened from within. if we do not react and ban this technology, we will find that, under the excuse of national security, legal certainty will end, and as a result, our democracy will be weakened.
mr president, we are witnessing today a deliberate, coordinated and absolutely disproportionate attack on the greek government, and it seems that anything goes to attack, even to smear with lies the reputation of greece in europe: i have heard in recent days that greece is a second-rate democracy or even an autocratic country. on the contrary, the action taken by the greek government following the revelations of the spying is much more decisive than that of the other member states: it has been established that these are legal interceptions, carried out under judicial supervision, in compliance with the rule of law, and yet measures have been taken to clear up liability and to prevent the repetition of politically inappropriate interceptions, such as the resignation of the technical and political persons responsible for the interceptions, the creation of a special committee in the national parliament or the reform of the legal framework or the system of supervision of the greek intelligence services. i hope that the other european countries, which are the target of much more serious espionage scandals than greece, will follow their example of responsibility.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, the current energy crisis highlights once again the importance of including a gender perspective in all public policies, and in this case in energy and green transition policies. we know that women, and in particular those who experience intersectional discrimination, whether on the basis of origin, race, religion or social status, are more likely than men to live in energy poverty, so it is important that energy efficiency measures, in turn, help empower and protect low-income households and the most vulnerable people. let us remember: a just and inclusive transition to a climate-neutral union is only possible if we take into account the impact of climate change on inequalities.
i would like to thank my colleague, mrs isabel carvalhais, for her excellent work. in these reports we are looking at the adaptation to the eu regulatory framework of standards agreed in regional fisheries organisations, standards that advance the conservation of fisheries resources vital to citizens' access to quality food with a minimum carbon footprint. the adoption of these standards further demonstrates that the european fleet is governed by the highest worldwide standards of control and quality. so we need to continue to improve to achieve maximum sustainable yield in all european basins, yes, but we must also acknowledge the effort and commitment of our fleet. mortality rates have fallen below one and biomass has increased between 35 and 50 percent in the last 20 years. the union fleet is a victim of climate change and an ally in the fight against it. therefore, fisheries policy must deepen the dialogue with the sector, without a priori or unilateralism, to ensure the conservation of fish stocks and the future of the sector.
mr. president, salah hamouri is 36 years old. he is a french-palestinian lawyer and human rights defender from jerusalem. since the age of 15, when he was shot, salah has suffered israeli persecution, facing continuous judicial and administrative harassment. he has been subject to arbitrary detention, travel bans, bail and fines, house arrest and separation from his family. his family, whom i recently met in paris, explained to me that, to this day, salah is still under administrative detention without any specific charges being brought against him. he has recently been illegally revoked his residency in jerusalem, on the grounds of 'breach of allegiance to the state of israel'. here again the widespread practice of demographic manipulation by the israeli apartheid regime is exposed. the european union cannot stand by and watch this systematic violation of human rights against the palestinian people, especially in a case involving a european citizen. we demand an end to the harassment and the immediate release of salah.
mr president, mr bek, commissioner, in august this year 20% of the european territory was on drought alert. europe is drying up, europe is burning. we lose the natural carbon sinks. and the worst of all is that we have no strategy on desertification. and we need it because we need clear drought management plans. we need to include the management of forest fire risk in other sectoral policies such as, for example - as clara aguilera has said - agriculture, rural development, infrastructure policy, tourism policy, employment policy... we need to restore the water bodies and also increase water safety, commissioner. we need measures to save water, to use non-conventional sources, and also to use it more efficiently. and finally, we have the law of restoration of nature. the areas affected by the fires must be restored as soon as possible so that the ecosystems can resume their function as soon as possible. but, commissioner, a strategy on desertification as soon as possible.
mr president, i would first of all like to pay tribute to all the firefighters, many of whom have died, to the firefighters and the military who have been fighting terrible fires all over europe, and especially in spain, such as those of this summer, and some of them are still there. now they're shouting again and they're asking for laws again, i'm hearing that they want laws and they want to take care of the water. here is some socialist talking about water, when they sabotaged a national hydrological plan for real and equitable distribution in spain, so that there could be water everywhere and not water poured into the sea in a free way. and more laws for what? we need fewer laws: we need the people of the countryside to be able to treat the countryside again and to be able to clear the forests. the forests are not burning because of climate change, they are burning because they are a fuel bomb that has been accumulating because they do not let the forests be cleared, because they do not let the people of the countryside act as they have always acted in the countryside.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the climate is changing and changing our territories and our lives. in spain, in 2022 alone, the average number of fires increased fourfold. and in the mediterranean ecoregion, the fire season increased by 54%. this year we are facing a drought that is the worst in at least five hundred years. the problem is not cyclical - it has already been said here - and its impact is uneven. it is modulated according to geographical, economic and social criteria. some are more affected than others. our agricultural sector is in desolation. that is why, alongside climate change mitigation measures, a policy of solidarity and a strategy to combat desertification must be articulated. we must go beyond the activation of the european union civil protection mechanism and strengthen cohesion policy as a mechanism of solidarity between regions. the role of public authorities in protecting natural resources is essential and the right to water must be guaranteed as a common good, not as a commodity. without water, there is no possible existence on this planet. it's surprising we can't agree on such simple evidence.
mr president, this summer has been, much to our regret, the summer of fire. by the end of august, more than 63 large fires had been recorded in spain, burning more than 300 000 hectares. some of the most disturbing have happened in my homeland, in aragon. the fires in ateca and añón de moncayo have caused incalculable losses, citizens displaced from their homes, irreparable damage to agriculture, livestock, infrastructure, loss of biodiversity..., not to mention the professionals who have worked tirelessly to put out the flames risking their lives. one of the biggest causes of these natural disasters has a name: climate emergency. the financial and coordination instruments we have in europe to deal with these disasters are not adapted to the severity and intensity of the natural disasters of recent years. the union civil protection mechanism and the solidarity fund, created 20 years ago, were a european success story, but they fall short of the reality of the global climate emergency. the commission must rethink how to strengthen them and revise its budget upwards for the benefit of the planet and the citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, commissioner, the proposal for adequate minimum wages is a good proposal for europe and is a proposal for social justice, especially for women, who make up 60% of minimum wage earners in the european union, when we represent only 46% of the workforce. we therefore talk about closing the gender gap in wages, in income, in pensions, in wealth, and about fighting against poverty for women and child poverty, as well as inequality, which is now especially acute with inflation. and that is that economic inequality is one of the biggest challenges we have and tackling it is essential to successfully tackling the green, digital and also demographic transitions, which is about care. and it's especially in the long-term care sector where about 81 percent of the workforce is women, who are paid minimum wages and also have terrible, terrible working conditions. the proposal for a minimum wage directive is therefore an essential part of the process of european integration, and we socialists have been working to bring it forward from all corners of europe, from andalusia to thessaloniki, so that we can move towards social convergence, guarantee higher wages and combat economic and gender inequalities. it is certainly a bet on dignity and social justice.
president, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the opportunity to protect the people who are really in trouble - namely the people with the lowest incomes - from the high energy prices and inflation. there are millions of working people in europe who today cannot pay their bills because of low wages. let us support the directive on higher minimum wages en masse as a signal to the member states. we must make a real effort now, not wait two years, because this is the moment for europe to show our social ambition to those who are in difficulty and do not know which bill to pay first. the average annual energy bill in many member states today is more than the minimum monthly wage. 25 million workers can now get higher wages. a minimum wage must be a living wage, and we must continue to fight for it together.
mr president, article 153 (5) of the treaty denies the union competence to regulate wages, and you know this, but you do not care. they give us this directive on wages, which does not protect the stable employment of europeans. we cannot talk about fair wages and not tackle the main dangers to employment: the massive arrival of illegal immigrants willing to take on the worst working conditions and cheap labour, and the destruction of european businesses with climate regulations, taxes and unfair competition from abroad. on the other hand, the workers' right to form associations is a natural tendency to guarantee fair working conditions, but this right includes the freedom not to join a union, which is violated by their obsession to impose unionism on their obedient unions with public money. mass unionization must be achieved through representative and effective unions, such as the spanish solidaridad union, and not through aid and subsidies. and the final joke: recital 16 states that unions are harassed. i don't know which country; in spain, workers are harassed by unions when they see them applauding immigration and gender policies that curtail equal opportunities.
mr president, commissioner, we know that the minimum wage increases have been eaten up by inflation and that workers have lost purchasing power. the poverty of labour is worsening and affects women above all. the outlook is not good, with runaway inflation and a response from the central bank that can cool the economy and have a very negative impact on employment. this directive is essential. it is essential to reverse the wage devaluation which has occurred, for example, in spain. it is also essential for women because it reduces the gender pay gap, facilitates reconciliation and buffers the feminization of poverty. but we have to force companies to join this effort that we're all going to do. and in spain we have asked them to take responsibility. in a polarized context, collective bargaining is the only formula. we are forcing companies from europe too.
on behalf of the s&d group. i hope that you will give me the one minute left by mr ehler. the truth is, when we started this discussion of renewables, there hadn't been different things happening in europe: there was no invasion of ukraine, there was no price crisis that we have now, and that makes us need to push renewables more, and that was one of the reasons, too, why it was decided that we had to increase ambition. renewables are a key part of the solution to the escalating price, and we also know that they make energy more affordable. we have agreed that this directive should promote renewable energy, only renewable energy, not other fuels, and that target of at least 45% is the right one at the moment. we hope the council will take note. we are really at the first stage of the directive, of the revision; it does not end here: we are now engaged in those negotiations to speed up the administrative authorizations and social acceptance, because it is essential that this ecological and energy transition be integral. i also believe that we must make a final effort to strengthen the heating and cooling sector, which accounts for half of the union's energy consumption. we also tackle bioenergy with measures to make it more sustainable, helping also to prevent forest fires, as we are seeing, a plague that is becoming more virulent and more damaging because of climate change. the report does not forget the need to train new specialists to make this transition possible, which also requires new jobs and must create new habits. it will also be a catalyst for innovative technologies, such as green hydrogen. we need a stable, predictable framework, with additionality, but with clear criteria and a clear legislative framework for the coming years, so that it can be a real driver of this energy transition. beyond the unproductive dialectics, which seek only to perpetuate a fossil fuel economy, we must call for a collective mobilization so that european society is truly involved in this energy transition. the energy transition by means of... (the president withdrew the floor)
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the directive on renewable energy sources is perhaps one of the most important pillars of european policy, not only in the energy field but also in the climate, economic and industrial fields, and it even determines questions of geopolitics and strategic autonomy. the responsibility for having a strong directive that is appropriate to today's needs is therefore crucial. even more so at a time of drift and confusion on the part of the eu, knocked out by the cruelty of the energy crisis and hostage to its neoliberal dogmas in a time of shortages and out-of-control energy markets. we believe that the objectives of this proposal are not very ambitious, with no specific obligations for individual sectors or member states. they haven't even dared to reach 50 percent renewables by 2030. it has no qualms about expanding the use of certain crops or burning forests to generate electricity, when we are losing biodiversity and experiencing a grain crisis with strong impacts on food prices. there's a clear misconception from the start. in conclusion, they are turning one of the main tools for tackling the ecosocial crisis and a fundamental pillar of the eu's strategic autonomy into a document of low ambition and certainly of little use for the enormous energy and socio-environmental challenges we face. i really hope that we will change our approach, that we will be responsible and that we will respond to the demands of the scientific community, civil society and the european environmental movement.
mr. president, we've been hearing for months that a harsh winter is coming, but the people who are going to suffer it are not responsible for the situation we're in. for years we have been warning about the dangers of playing with an essential commodity such as energy. the proposal for a directive on the promotion of energy from renewable sources is improving, but it is not enough, environmental standards are far from what europe and the world need: we are not served by a 45% target for 2030 when science tells us we need 55%; we are not served by the push towards biomass as renewable energy - much less nuclear and gas - and, of course, we are not served by the absence of binding targets for the member states of the union. the commitment to renewable energy must be firm and respect the realities of the territories. we have important examples of renewable energy production, local energy production. we need to put a stop to the oligopoly of the power companies, which continue to skyrocket their profits while, with the drought we face, it has been allowed to empty swamps to sell hydropower for the price of gas. today we ask, again, for climate ambition and social justice.
madam president, madam commissioner, i think you know what i'm going to say. i have to say - i told myself - because a year ago we had this debate here, we asked for the decoupling of gas prices from electricity and for emergency measures and reform of the electricity market. a year ago. but we're in a very complicated scenario now. we have also made great progress in recent times. for example, decisions have been taken such as the iberian exception, which has enabled my country to save energy consumers a lot of money. and i think it can be a good inspiration, as it is in other energy matters. i therefore acknowledge that the commission is taking steps in the right direction: to tackle the inframarginal technologies, such as renewables or nuclear, or to talk about the extraordinary benefits that companies are getting from these high prices. let us not forget that other measures can be taken in relation to gas prices. we're seeing how the ttf market is being polluted and giving out price signals that aren't real. since the day the commission announced these measures and with 80% of the reserves, already for the winter, we see the market falling by 35%, 40%. i think we should take action on this, in case there is speculation. in any case, you have our full support for the measures you are taking.
madam president, madam commissioner, we are facing a particularly harsh winter, and the citizens need certainty. the certainty that, whatever happens, there will be no power cuts in our homes or in our workplaces. and the certainty that energy prices will not continue to skyrocket. and we can't wait any longer. we need the commission to propose a social shield now, and i am talking about direct aid, as was done during covid-19, to help alleviate the meteoric rise in invoices and to avoid the closure of companies. we must also put forward bold reforms, such as those on the electricity market, and the 27 must work together urgently, but without any blunder. and i say this because in spain the gas cap has skyrocketed our imports of russian gas and now we are the consumers who are paying the compensation to the gas companies in our bills. and finally, we need interconnection infrastructure that can serve gas today but must do so for green hydrogen tomorrow. and european projects must be paid for with european funds. commissioner, time is running out and we need bold action now.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation, which is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to make proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation, which is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to make proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
in writing. since mid-2021, the union has experienced an increase in energy prices. after russia's invasion of ukraine, energy prices have reached record levels. the disruptions in the supply of russian gas to the union confirm that gas is being used as a weapon. gas prices have a direct impact on electricity prices because part of the electricity is generated from natural gas. energy prices are the main component of inflation. this is affecting the purchasing power of eu consumers, especially the most vulnerable, as well as smes and industry. the european union is working to reduce its high energy dependence on russia and to stem the rise in energy prices. in this respect, we socialists were the first to call for strong and coordinated measures at european level, to put forward proposals to tackle high energy prices, to secure supplies and to protect consumers, especially the most vulnerable. in the face of market disruption, we must limit prices and reverse the unexpected benefits of this crisis on the citizens.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the policy on the southern neighbourhood can be very valuable in strengthening the relationship between the two shores. we must overcome the economistic view, which is still retained in this proposal. the region is not a source of resources nor a place to off-load production and take advantage of the lack of labour rights. there is a vibrant and active civil society today that resists authoritarianism. we must commit ourselves to an urgent ecological transition, to measures in favour of the rights of women and lgbt people, to more equal economic development and to a fair migration policy that goes to the root causes and puts an end to the militarization of borders that has turned the mediterranean into a common grave. we must help to defuse and prevent conflicts in the neighbourhood, by respecting international law and human rights, by putting an end to the apartheid imposed by israel on the palestinian population, by demanding compliance with the un resolutions and the ecj judgments on western sahara, and by supporting the kurdish people in the face of erdogan's persecution. europe cannot stand by while international law is being violated, for reasons of responsibility, decency and credibility.
madam president, please. the stability of the southern partnership countries is vital for europe. this is why we must work for close cooperation with the mediterranean countries. the strengthening of state structures, infrastructure development and the fight against terrorism, as well as the strengthening of food security, should be promoted in the region. it's the only thing that can stop the illegal migration from the region to europe. the migration pressure is clearly increasing in this direction, and we must therefore strengthen the protection of the union's external borders. we must work with the southern partnership countries, on the basis of mutual economic cooperation, to create living conditions that support and encourage settlement. it is also now clear that the southern energy supply routes are crucial for the energy needs of the eu member states. the union's policy towards the south must in any case be a policy of stability and must not become a means of spreading left-wing ideologies.
madam president, dear commissioner, as this report states, the security, prosperity and stability of our european union are dependent on the security, prosperity and stability of our neighbourhood. with our dedicated strategy, we can build on the existing partnership and work on a common political agenda and reforms benefiting us all. coming from a country at the european external border, i can’t stress enough the need to cooperate on migration. our southern neighbourhood is still a point of passage for thousands of people trying to reach our borders via irregular migration routes. the political instability in the region serves human traffickers, extremists and other criminal organisations. we should engage with our partner countries to strengthen judicial and police cooperation with the eu and continue the development of effective return and readmission cooperation. meanwhile, our investment in the regions should lead to better socio—economic standards and build a thriving business climate. economic diversification and education should foster innovation. as partners, we can help the region to become more thriving and more prospering.
madam president, do we need to renew and strengthen the partnership with the southern neighbouring countries and the southern neighbourhood? of course, this is a priority for europe, but how can we explain to our fellow citizens that we need to strengthen key relationships in order to seek a space of shared prosperity and security when, today, those countries with which we want to strengthen our relations are violating the agreements we have with them right now? i'll give you two examples. first example: algeria has since june of this year closed and suspended trade relations with spain, boycotting spanish producers. second example: morocco has had its land borders with spain closed for two years and has been unable to trade for two years and spanish products have not been able to cross the moroccan border. what have you done while the commission has solved our problems? i'm not sure. so, yes, we must guarantee neighbourhood, but good neighbourhood, and that requires respecting commitments. look, to finish, europe also has a southern border, it's in the south: ceuta and melilla are two european cities that are in north africa and that you systematically ignore in your relations with the countries of north africa. it would be good if in this future of strengthened relations we also thought about strengthening the countries of southern europe and how they relate to the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our partnership with the mediterranean countries must be strengthened. this is necessary to cope with the consequences of the health crisis and the war in ukraine, which have hit our partners on the other side hard. it is in our interest to provide them with financial aid and to develop economic and cultural exchanges with them in order to contribute to their stability. because if some of these countries were to sink into instability, as, unfortunately, libya did, we would suffer the terrible consequences: overwhelming migration, insecurity, terrorism. but of course the european union must stop being an angel. the payment of this aid must be conditional on the achievement of objectives which we must firmly negotiate. let me give you an example. the states that receive our aid should in return agree to take back the illegal migrants of their nationality that we decide to send back. in foreign policy, only those states and international organizations are respected which defend their interests without wavering.
madam president, if there is anything that is bad for the european union, it is the lack of credibility and all this talk that is certainly not effective, because all the pressing problems, the really pressing ones, are not addressed here. our real problems at the moment are in seeking to curb absolutely uncontrolled immigration and seeking to curb the terrorist threat. it is necessary to make the deportations that are taking place effective and to put an end to the existence of international networks of illegal immigration trafficking, in which ngos, also funded by european governments, are very actively involved. it is necessary to defend the external borders, including physical barriers, also in ceuta and melilla, which are two spanish cities, and to put an end to the hate education and the cult of terrorism financed by the european union in the palestinian territories. our fundamental problem, with incentives and disincentives, is to convince the young people of the maghreb and of the whole of africa that their future lies in the development of their countries and not in europe. no overdose of political correctness is going to give us solutions, but it will only delay us and hurt us and create more problems for us.
mr president, commissioner, the new european bauhaus has enormous potential to provide us with answers in today's complex context. this initiative should allow us to rethink our private and public spaces in line with an energy transition that is fair and equitable and that takes into account the perspectives of the communities it aims to transform. and for that, a truly transversal, intersectional and gendered approach is essential to talk not only about accessible spaces, but also about culture and creativity as key elements in the design of public services, education and social and economic life. this report is a very clear call to the commission. we need our own resources and clear objectives to translate ideas into action.
respected chairman, no one can imagine the morale and strength of someone who defends his own like the ukrainians today. we who have felt the war ourselves know it best. our citizens are showing solidarity with ukraine, but we must ensure that this crisis does not get passed on to the citizens. we need to ensure a permanent european crisis mechanism. some people have a crisis that's a blessing. a system whereby a small tradesman pays a higher tax rate than a large multinational company is deeply unfair. we need european taxes, but we also need an effective global response. let's take from those who have, give to those who need. croatia is facing particular challenges. prices are soaring, and some are using the introduction of the euro to make a profit in the dark. i welcome the announcement of the prevention of corruption. european bodies and european laws are, unfortunately, the only hope for some. we must fight at all levels against those who put their pockets before the interests of the citizens.
madam president, mrs von der leyen, thank you for all the efforts you have made and today europe must be united, both internally, to prevent the division that third parties expect from outside, and externally, to have the moral, political authority to build new partnerships and to defend its values. you're talking about a political community. i like the idea of a political community, of creating new friendships and partnerships. but i cannot see the western balkans as part of this political community. for me, they should be an integral part of the european union. historically and geographically they belong to europe and i want them to be an integral part of the european union. generations of european and national politicians have been working towards this. the first important challenge we face is how to make europe look different in 2024, when the battle of populists against liberal democrats will be no less. and here we have to give the right answers. i believe that a large part of this is contained in the conference on the future of europe. the conclusions were very solid and i welcome your idea of moving these conclusions to the next moment when a genuine european convention is created and the ideas of the citizens of europe find a place.
madam president, a few days ago, putin buried president gorbachev without honor. how wrong they are in the kremlin! history will remember gorbachev and condemn putin. the courage, resistance and bravery of the ukrainian people are the best symbol of the justice of their cause. let no one doubt that europe will stand firm as a rock in defence of the freedom of ukraine, because the cause of ukraine is today the cause of europe. in these difficult times, europe faces many challenges: we must fight inflation relentlessly because it is the most unfair tax on families; we must strengthen europe's energy autonomy so that the citizens do not pay the bill for this crisis; we must be ambassadors for economic progress in africa and for the defence of freedoms in latin america. i want to be optimistic. there is a source of energy much more powerful and powerful than russian gas and oil: it is european values. our democracies, our freedoms and our rule of law are, as a spanish poet would say, weapons loaded with the future and, i would add, the present. long live the free ukraine!
i would just like to announce to all participants of the debate right now that from now on i will only accept blue cards from those members of the european parliament who don’t have a regular speaking time. so those who are on my speakers’ list will not get the opportunity, because otherwise this debate won’t end. so we just go on like this. and inviting all those other members not having speaking time to come to the room and to raise a question via a blue card.
madam president, please. in a minute and a half, you have to slowly react to the latest developments in a political debate that has lasted more than a decade. the various facts, assumptions and half-truths are so - let's just say - interwoven in a european document that i have not seen in the last 20 years. accompanied by doctoral theses. this, beyond the previous ones, is simply a collection of hungarophobes. it doesn't take a party politician or a political scientist to see clearly that the increasingly radicalized european left wants to place hungary under its protection. in my country, hungary, just a few months ago, a government was re-elected by a landslide. on the other hand, the authors of this document, in front of the hungarian voters, are, in one way or another, but in any case, voicing the topos of the disintegrated opposition. it's a political pamphlet, a declaration that ignores the objectivity of the document. unfortunately, they also make the european parliament's role in the eyes of the european electorate appear to be a matter of indifference. all this in the midst of war, unemployment, food shortages. for years, you who have written this paper have been telling millions of hungarian voters, and sometimes tens of millions of other countries, that you don't count unless you join us! it's not about the infallibility of the hungarian government. the hungarian government is wrong, as are the decision-makers in every other country. however, it should be noted that hungary has always been ready to compromise in order to reach an agreement. believe me, as a hungarian, i know very well that hungary cannot and will not be placed under guardianship. i have a suggestion to close with: feel free to form a hungarophobic circle of friends, yes, a hungarophobic circle of friends. that would be the most honest speech.
madam president, commissioner reynders, this morning in the debate on the state of the union i applauded the passage in the speech in which president von der leyen reaffirmed her commitment to the rule of law, the values of the union and the fight against corruption, but it was not the first time, that is why she has reaffirmed it, just as it is not the first time that we have discussed the situation in hungary in this parliament, just as we have also discussed it in relation to poland. and yet, can we afford to let this become routine? not in the least. for more than ten years now, the european parliament has been accumulating powerful reasons for dealing with hungary and poland, because they are a superlative example of confusing the european idea of democracy with winning elections and having an absolute majority in parliament, as we have heard today in this debate. democracy in europe is not just about having a majority in parliament, but about respecting minorities and political pluralism, and in hungary we have seen over the years a whole series of signs of that syndrome which we have called 'urbanisation', which has then also manifested itself in poland, affecting the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, academic freedom, respect for minorities, with that infamous law which prohibits the content of sex education in schools on the pretext that it can mislead the gender or sexual orientation of students. so, for all those powerful reasons, the european parliament, at the time, approved by a two-thirds majority in 2018, four years ago, to trigger article 7 in relation to poland, as, of course, it also triggered and activated article 7 in relation to hungary, as it did subsequently in relation to poland. now, as we have said many times, it is up to the council to decide: this succession of special hearings on hungary's situation in the council must finally have a tangible result, binding recommendations. and, of course, the last point i want to make is that when the independence of the judiciary is attacked in a context of confirmed corruption in the handling of european public funds, there is a common thread: the judiciary is controlled precisely to prevent accountability for how european money is used. (the speaker agreed to reply to two interventions made under the 'blue card' procedure)
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a 'blue card' intervention. mr. lópez aguilar, in 2021 the constitutional court of spain twice ruled that the socialist government of pedro sánchez ignored the constitution and the courts when it introduced the state of emergency for covid19. why did the left not initiate a debate here in this parliament? is this not a clear policy of double standards?
the answer is 'blue card'. according to the spanish constitution, emergency measures can be adopted in extraordinary situations, unprecedented both in the spanish democratic history and in the whole of the european union, and these measures were adopted with the broad majority support of the two chambers of the cortes generales in spain. of course, these measures have been examined throughout europe because they were adopted as provisional, thus fulfilling the mandates of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and as necessary. the constitutional court in spain gives a judgment and the government follows it, as it cannot be otherwise: that is a difference with respect to those cases we have seen in hungary and poland of blatant and contumacious non-compliance with the judgments of the court of justice regardless of what the courts of justice say.
blue-card speech. – madam president, dear colleagues, this morning we could hear the president of the commission telling us that we should have learned 50 years ago from the oil crisis because then probably we would be able to prevent the climate change. then also president von der leyen told us that we should have learned from our polish and baltic friends about their warnings about the russian danger. so, i’m asking you, do you think next year the president of the commission will tell us we should have learned from our hungarian friends in treating the migration? and in 2024, will the next president tell us, ‘oh, we should have learned from our hungarian friends in cherishing and respecting the christian values’?
blue-card reply. – i mean, you’re talking to president von der leyen, not to me. but i'm only glad and i can only thank you for bringing up the migration issue because it’s also an issue. or is it not that hungary has proved to be the champion of unsolidarity when it comes to not abiding by the binding measures that have been taken according to eu law precisely to deal with migration issues at european level? is it not true that hungary even appealed to the european court of justice, seeking for relief for its non-solidarity claim against the mandates that had been taken by the council in which viktor orbán was sitting? and finally, the european court of justice made it right and stated it clear that if hungary is a full member of the european union, it has to abide by european union law even when it deals with migration issues and, of course, pay tribute to the solidarity principle, which is the mandate of the treaty of the union for good.
madam president, democracies can die. democracies can die on battlefields in war, in occupation, in oppression. but democracies can also die silently. first, independent media is restricted, pushed out, journalists intimidated. then critical civil society is defunded, swamped with lawsuits, maims foreign agents, universities are maimed in their academic freedom, political opponents are attacked, electoral reform is introduced to minimise their political success. then you single out minorities. and we have seen this – lgbti people, the roma community and yes, also refugees. and every time you want to pass yet another anti-democratic law or reform, you basically create some fuss about one of these minorities in order to distract from what you are actually doing. what is the gain? the gain is authoritarian rule with disabled checks and balances, limited civil society and free press. and yes, in addition, a much easier way to direct public money into the pockets of people who are powerful government ministers and other politicians. we cannot let a democracy die in europe. so i really urge the commission, but also the council to do more in order to defend democracy and rule of law inside of the european union. i know this is a historic task, but i think we have to be up to this historic task because otherwise in 50 years, colleagues, we are going to say, why didn’t we do more when we needed to defend democracy and the rule of law in the european union? (the speaker refused to respond to a blue-card speech from andor deli)
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the common organization of the market in bananas. governments in countries like the netherlands, germany, france, belgium and italy are the same. here, people's health is being affected by poisoned syringes, which ursula von der leyen probably made a fortune on. here democracy is being helped to the brink by the refusal to give openness about vaccine candidates. and here freedom of expression is being drained through the gutter by censorship under the guise of disinformation. prosperity is being eroded by the rise in food and energy prices. they're expropriating the farmers because of the green deal, when it's the farmers who can save us from this mess. the media, led by ex-politicians, are paid millions to lie to the people about nonexistent diseases, nonexistent warming and nonexistent enemies in the east. and judges are appointed by governments only when they are on the dominant political line. and this thoroughly corrupt and hypocritical eu and its member states have the bloody nerve to take the measure of hungary? the rule of law in hungary, which proudly carries forward the traditional christian values of our culture, which has the lowest energy price in the eu, which stubbornly refuses to admit undemocratic immigrants, is the blueprint for how member states should deal with the eu. and i call on this parliament and the commission to act on this.
madam president, commissioner, another day spent attacking a member state simply because those who still govern here did not win the elections and have been trying to do so all their lives. today, hungary. tomorrow, poland is on. past, you never know. then, of course, they will go out and talk about european unity. as early as 2018, the european parliament initiated this article 7 procedure against hungary. then there are the many debates, the four resolutions and the report we are voting on tomorrow. and despite all this wasted time, the report is not able to identify a single violation of the rule of law in hungary. the report is limited to cases which have been resolved by the competent bodies or to references to issues which are part of the public debate in hungary and in which the union has no competence, such as the sexual indoctrination of minors in schools, which the hungarian government of course opposes. stop interfering in national affairs. they should concentrate on their own competence and on defending europe. and if you don't know, go away and get out of the way. we're ready and willing. in hungary, in poland, in sweden, in italy, in spain, all over europe.
mr president, the rule of law requires separation of powers and protection of fundamental rights. and it is clear that in hungary there is neither one nor the other. we have just heard that the hungarian government will force women to listen to the heartbeat of the fetus before they abort. a form of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, a measure that delays the termination of pregnancy, increases complications and generates more suffering for women, who are not playing sports or at a party. it is an exercise in sadism that hinders access to safe and legal abortion. a christmas crusade that is a prelude to restricting abortion, as happened in texas. they want to control our bodies, our lives, our affections. but we are not their incubators, nor the guardians of their families, their churches or their racial purity. we will continue to fight for the right to abortion to be incorporated into the charter of fundamental rights. i hope this comes soon and this crusade against women is over for good.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, sometimes contradictions are revealing. in this institution, where fundamental rights are sometimes overlooked, as in migration policy, where we have member states that trample on the rights of women and lgbt people, or where we promote economic policies that often ruin the lives of workers, we have nevertheless been able to produce this report on the situation of rights in the union which precisely sums up and denounces many of these aspects. in this connection, i would like to draw particular attention to the condemnation in this report of the situation at the external borders of the union, specifically with regard to the hot returns, the use of systematic violence, the lack of guarantees for the right of asylum, etc. finally, i would like to thank you for considering our proposal to add economic rights to this report: it is a turning point in a year like this in which savage measures are being applied against european households, such as the unjustified and short-sighted rise in interest rates by the european central bank, inflation, the rise in energy supply prices, etc., which augur a situation of high vulnerability for ordinary people. i hope that this report will also serve as a basis for decisive action to protect our countries and our people and that next year's report will not be so harsh.
mr president, on 31 august, the un human rights committee reported that suspending four catalan elected representatives was a violation of their political rights and, more importantly, the rights of their voters. the un reported that spain is in violation of article 25 of the charter and is denying catalans their constitutional rights. this happens in plain sight under your watch: the watch of this parliament and the watch of this commission. but we never hear anything from you. is it your policy to wait for some outside institution to speak before you recognise the violation of the rights of european citizens? or do you reserve this mistreatment for catalans only? is your silence weakness or cynicism? the report that we are discussing today rightly states that the widespread violations of human rights in the eu are causing serious danger and in some cases are systemic. you know this. now that the un has certified that spain is unable to live up to its own constitution, should we start saying the same of the union and the treaties, or will you dare to stop discrimination against european citizens on the basis of their nationality?
mr president, this morning the president of the commission reminded us that democracy cannot be taken for granted, nor freedom: this must be our starting point. the european union, and spain too, remains a great democratic space, committed to preserving the rule of law, and now it must also be an example of special firmness in combating actions, speeches and ideologies that want to end representative democracy; some threats come from outside, others we have inside: there is populism that claims to embody a popular will above the law, but also ethnic, racist and exclusionary nationalism. democracy and freedom, diversity and pluralism are being attacked in the name of religion, ethnicity, identity or language, and this threat is still present in the european union. one concrete, but substantial, aspect of this is the narratives that in my country legitimize the violence exercised for almost half a century by a terrorist gang. i therefore reiterate, commissioner, the need to speed up the revision of the directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, as recommended in this report, in order to strengthen the protection of victims and to provide guarantees that any acts of humiliation and attack from sectors of society which are related to the perpetrators will be prevented.
mr president, commissioner, we must admit that the health of fundamental rights in europe is not at its best: from the heart of the union to our borders, fundamental rights are not guaranteed, and this is certainly bad news for the european project. this report is also a wake-up call to the impact that the pandemic has had and still has on our societies: we have seen growing inequalities and structural deficiencies and regressive trends in rights and freedoms that already existed in many countries, and, without time to recover, we are on the verge of a new crisis stemming from the war in ukraine and the climate and energy emergency. from this, the only institution representing all european citizens, i would like to appeal to the member states to put the dignity and rights of people, especially the most vulnerable, at the centre of their political action. it is now more than ever that europe must prove that it is indeed an area of rights and freedoms, as we have praised it in our speeches.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, the european union, through its delegations in kampala and dar es salaam and locally represented european union member states, have been following closely the progress in these projects over numerous years. we have been discussing developments with civil society organisations, economic operators and government authorities. the projects will be put on the agenda of the next political dialogue with the respective countries. we have encouraged totalenergies to implement the company’s responsibilities under the framework of the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. we have also supported civil society to assess the human rights implications and environmental challenges the projects represent and to monitor the impact on affected communities, advocate for the respect for human rights, and facilitate dialogue between the local communities, the government and companies. the european union is prioritising its efforts on the green and climate transitions, as you mentioned today, to contribute to a better conservation, restoration and protection of natural resources and biodiversity – also, of course, of uganda – as well as with a specific focus on forests. in this regard the european union is in discussions with the government of uganda to develop a forest partnership. the european union has supported uganda’s membership in the extractive industry transparency initiative (eiti) and on the preparation of the first progress report. this is, we think, an important step for transparency in extracting resources, including oil. we also established a multi-stakeholder group representing government, the private sector and civil society to facilitate this dialogue. currently, the european union delegation in kampala is preparing for a new eur 5 million action on business and human rights, which will include a focus on improving respect for community rights affected by private—sector developments connected to natural resources. the european union will follow up with the governments on the decisions of the ongoing court cases. thank you very much for raising the issue and for your permanent interest in the subject.
author. – madam president, madam commissioner, on 19 august this year, the bishop of matagalpa, ronaldo álvarez, together with other clerics, was arbitrarily arrested and placed under house arrest by the nicaraguan regime. i condemn in the strongest possible terms the politically biased arrests and the persecution of the catholic church and others in nicaragua and call for the immediate release of those arbitrarily detained. bishop álvarez is publicly outspoken and openly calls for the respect of democracy and freedom of religion in his country. i lived all my life with similar histories that the communist regime did in my country. the bishop čule of mostar, who was held in a prison for 10 years because he wanted to build a cathedral in a town where it was never allowed until the ‘80s, or with cardinal stepinac, who was poisoned in prison for defending his people and the right to freedom of religion. i praised all the groups that they finally understand that the persecution of christians and catholics and the church that stands with their people, that it is important in this place that we speak about that. with this resolution, we repeat the message and show support to the people of nicaragua and the catholic church. we will remain with that. and i will finish and close with cardinal stepinac’s words, ‘when they take everything away from you, the only things you have is two hands; you start praying and you are the strongest then’.
author. madam president, madam commissioner, today we are defending the catholic church in nicaragua. today we defend bishop rolando alvarez, auxiliary silvio baez, the sisters of charity of st. teresa of calcutta and the thousands of anonymous priests who are only trying to give hope to a people whose dictator wants to steal. daniel ortega and rosario murillo have persecuted, imprisoned and expelled all political dissent in nicaragua and now they want to subjugate the catholic church. that is what we are speaking about today. we stand before the darkest summer in the history of the church in nicaragua. unfortunately, today, once again, for the second time in less than six months, we denounce a vile and petty fact that only dictators of the ortega type are able to overcome: ending the last loophole of freedom of human beings, ending our dignity. the persecution of the catholic church has been growing in recent years and this is the first time we see a majority church in one country being the victim of repression in the eyes of the entire international community. the church of nicaragua is the last institution standing and legitimately opposing the totalitarian project of dictators, as is the case with ortega and murillo. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution which the house must adopt cannot be confined to a complaint against the repression of the church. it's not just that. bishop alvarez is much more than that. it represents a people subjected to the designs of a dictator. and that is why all those whose voices have been taken away by daniel ortega will speak today through this resolution.
the european parliament has repeatedly condemned the repressive and authoritarian behaviour of the nicaraguan government. we did it last june and we are doing it again now, because unfortunately things have only got worse. we have already said in our resolution of june that we must now condemn the persecution of members of the catholic church. by imprisoning bishop rolando álvarez, who has always defended dialogue and a peaceful solution to the conflict in nicaragua, ortega and murillo are silencing one of the last critical and free voices left in the country. but when they are left without critics, without dissidents, when they have completely drowned political pluralism, free media and civil society, when in the country there are only regime sympathizers and many people are silent, afraid to speak, when in the prisons there is no more room for traitors to the homeland, as the nicaraguan authorities call those who defend democracy and human rights, then what will they have left? they will, perhaps, have the pleasure of believing that they have everything under control, a country at their feet and at the service of their interests, which is what all dictators want. but it will be, if it is not already, a country with too many wounds, too much repression and too much fear to be able to give its best. we reiterate our call for the release of all political prisoners, for the return of all exiles and for the reopening of the 1 800 ngos that were closed down, and for the european union to take further steps to help reverse and redress the situation in terms of respect for human rights.
author. madam president, nicaragua is a socialist dictatorship led by a brutal tyrant, daniel ortega, who has been pampered by the european left for decades. as cuba and venezuela have been. we should remember that less than a year ago the commission was explaining the demonstrations and the brutal repression that took place in cuba on 11 july and was protecting cuba. as venezuela has been protected so many times. now a regime, the criminal sandinista, is condemned for the arrest of a bishop, bishop rolando álvarez, because the persecution of the catholic church is what the dictatorship has left at this moment for repression. they have arrested the opposition, they have tortured and killed students, the cage is being completed and closed in a brutal way, but here, in the resolution, we see again the attempts to decontextualize. the nicaraguan dictatorship is a socialist dictatorship which exists because the são paulo forum exists, because cuba exists, because venezuela exists, because other democratic governments have fallen and, through violence and drug trafficking, we are seeing how democracies are sinking in ibero-america and how ortega, now with russian help, is arming himself and consolidating his dictatorship. we have a responsibility here, at the são paulo forum in russia, in what is the whole context of socialism and narco-communism in latin america. and that's what we need to put in the resolution. the rest is all words and words.
madam president, commissioner, fifth resolution on nicaragua and the situation is only getting worse by the day in that country. yesterday we had the opportunity to hear from the wife of félix madariaga the horror they are living: the regime of ortega and murillo has long since exceeded all limits; however, in recent weeks we have continued to add and have witnessed obscene images, such as the exhibition of political prisoners before the cameras, the repression against free journalism, and now also against the catholic church. the capture of bishop rolando álvarez, the most critical voice within the catholic hierarchy, shows that this despotic regime has no qualms about further deepening the rift with the international community. in the face of this dramatic situation, let us not be naive: we know that the regime of ortega and murillo is not going to dialogue, as it has already shown on many occasions. we must act with all possible tools and increase sanctions on the regime's accomplices. i repeat the need to activate the democratic clause of the association agreement and suspend any trade agreement with nicaragua: we have to isolate this dictatorship, that is what is expected of us.
madam president, madam commissioner, the ortega and murillo have done it again: they persecute people in nicaragua for their ideas, and their latest victim has been the catholic church with the arrest of bishop rolando álvarez. what's next? what else are you gonna do? in europe we do not forget what is happening in nicaragua and we have shown this in the severe resolutions we have drafted. we continue and will continue to demand the release of all the political prisoners who have been arbitrarily imprisoned, and we do not forget those citizens who have been forced to leave the country for their safety, as they do not see any possibility of returning. that is why it is important that you do not cease, that you do not cease, in your peaceful struggle to put an end to the dictatorial model that the country is living. let us focus on what is important and act accordingly by taking the necessary measures: the nicaraguan people need to live in freedom, with dignity and in democracy.
madam president, madam commissioner, the arrest on 19 august of bishop rolando álvarez together with nine other persons and the closure of catholic radio and television stations are the last straw in the glass of the deterioration affecting freedoms in nicaragua: the flower that sandino planted is withering. the government dictates the charges on the news, and there are judges and police who obey, arrest and imprison: all dissent is persecuted, critical people are threatened, humanitarian and human rights organizations are closed, media are closed, and hundreds of prisoners without rights, without visitors, remain imprisoned for activities that can only be a crime within the framework of a totalitarian dictatorship. let us remember and support the families of these people; this is what berta valle, journalist, human rights activist and wife of félix madariaga, who was imprisoned for the serious crime of standing for election, asked us to do yesterday. we demand the release of these people. the european union must apply the democratic clause in the cooperation agreement. there are those responsible who deserve international sanctions. the international criminal court must investigate whether this massive, inquisitorial witch hunt is a crime against humanity.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after dismantling the independent press and the political opposition, the regime is concentrating its repression on the catholic church, the last remaining independent entity, considered hostile for criticizing the regime and for opening its doors to injured protesters already in 2018, during the protests suppressed in blood by the ortega police. the arrest of bishop álvarez is just the latest in a dramatic series of arbitrary arrests of members of the catholic church in nicaragua, taken from their homes, beaten up, accused without proof of fomenting hatred and violence. the sandinista regime has banned hundreds of ngos, the nuns of mother teresa of calcutta, the apostolic nuncio; the commission has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the preparation of the council of europe's annual report on terrorism. we can no longer remain silent and accept the constant deterioration of democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and religious freedom that we have been witnessing for years in nicaragua. we are therefore called upon to strengthen sanctions and to make every effort to put an end to this disgrace.
madam president, tomorrow, 15 september, is a symbolic day for nicaragua: it celebrates its national day at a time when it is a crime to carry its flag and those who do are persecuted. the ortega and murillo regime does not tire of harassing, torturing, exiling and imprisoning the opposition, human rights defenders, journalists, students, businessmen... now it has raged against the catholic faith by instituting a state policy of repression against it. yesterday the united nations human rights council adopted a resolution condemning the violations in nicaragua; today this parliament demands the release of bishop rolando álvarez and all the unjustly imprisoned political prisoners; the best celebration of the national day will be in nicaragua when that country is free from tyranny and no one is forced to leave their homeland by infamous dictators.
madam president, first of all, i find it outrageous that a fugitive from spanish justice should speak in this parliament about spain in this way. and yes, commissioner, i think we can be very proud of cohesion policy and if we have learned anything, it is that, in order to be useful, it must be flexible and find that balance between preserving its long-term approach to reducing disparities between regions and responding to unforeseen situations and crises, as we did with react-eu during covid-19, as we did with ukrainian refugees and as we must do now with inflation and energy prices. that is why i think it is urgent, commissioner, to have a mechanism to support smes and families. and my other point is simplification. because bureaucracy and the lack of qualified staff is leading to worrying situations, such as that in spain, where we are still short of implementing part of the funds for the period 2014 to 2020. we have not yet delivered the operational plans for the period 20212027 and we may lose an annuity from the just transition fund because we have an overwhelmed administration trying to manage the next generation eu funds. so if we are talking about the future, we must talk about simplification, modernization and the creation of synergies so that the funds complement each other and do not overlap, as is happening now.
mr president, to speak of cohesion policy is to speak of one of the most important pillars of the union, as the guarantor of equality in europe and the backbone of the territories. the fact that more than a third of the european budget is devoted to this programme shows how important it is. i would like to stress, however, the need to maintain a proper approach to the objectives of cohesion policies. it is true that the current challenges have required emergency responses to the effects of the covid-19 crisis and the consequences of the war in ukraine, and the cohesion policy funds have been there and it has been shown that, when you want it, you can do it. but, alas! let us not turn the cohesion policy funds into a tailor's drawer. these crises of which we are speaking have further widened the social and territorial gaps. that is why, commissioner, we must help the people and regions with the greatest difficulties by strengthening the instruments which make us equal. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. this issue i think should be at the top of the agendas. so let us be sure to identify weaknesses and challenges. let us make it easier for the institutions to do their job. we must put an end to bureaucratic obstacles. bureaucracy need not be a guarantee of good management. on the contrary, bureaucracy is an element that exacerbates the differences. talk to the areas with fewer resources and the vicious circle that bureaucracy can lead to. let us therefore make it easier for the various institutions to do their job. cohesion policy is more necessary than ever, so let us demand greater ambition to ensure that it remains a core value of the union. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteurs for the work they have done.
mr president, commissioner, thank you, commissioner ferreira, for your strong commitment to cohesion and constant work with this parliament. both the eighth cohesion report and the report on border regions and integration laboratories are useful tools to meet the demands of our mayors. cohesion policy is an excellent instrument because of its flexibility in crisis situations, but let us remember that it is a long-term investment policy and therefore specific response mechanisms must be created in the future multiannual financial framework, as well as the european union solidarity fund must be strengthened and specific lines for people with disabilities must be created. local politics is where most of the neighbourhood problems are solved, such as the rise in energy, etc., and now it is increased by the challenge of not only welcoming, but integrating more than seven million refugees after the russian aggression against ukraine, but it must be as broad as possible, because the cities of the south know perfectly well that not only ukrainians knock on the door of the town halls. for all these reasons, and not only, we must increase and strengthen the metropolitan areas, which are where there is the greatest intra-regional inequality... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
madam president, i thank minister bek and vice-president jourová, with whom we always have excellent cooperation on all matters, and i would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs and the members of the negotiating team. i will not go into the main points, which have already been made, but i will simply stress that we need to have this instrument of european political parties and european political foundations ready for the 2024 elections, but we also need to have the european electoral law that this parliament has proposed, which includes the novelty of the common electoral constituency, ready for those elections. these two elements are combined, because this project which is being presented today seeks to strengthen european political parties, their transparency, the participation of women, and also their visibility, their logos, and that is also what we are proposing in the european electoral law, that there should be a european list ballot with the logo of the european political parties, among other innovations.
madam president, madam commissioner, we have been discussing for some time the difficulties faced by individuals, and also by smes, in this turbulent context in which they operate, especially with the rise in prices and the lack of basic supplies or of labour in some sectors, as well as competition with the greater market power and the greater ability to relocate that large companies have. and it's that smes are not only the great creators of jobs, but of jobs and wealth that is fixed in the territory, and that's why they are essential for social cohesion, and that's why we have to support them, especially in this context; especially because we are immersed in these twin transitions, digital and green transitions, that need innovation, and smes especially need our help to make that sustainability really reach the entire business fabric. the socialists and democrats therefore welcome the announcement by president von der leyen of the package of measures to help smes which she presented during her state of the union address. i would therefore ask the commission to inform parliament in more detail and to tell us what the conditions for these measures are and, above all, to take us into account when developing them, so that these aids and conditions can reach the smes that need them most as soon as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is home to 25 million small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 99% of all businesses, create 100 million jobs, decentralised value chains and training places for the young generation. in short, small and mediumsized enterprises form the backbone of our european economy. whether as a start-up, a micro-entrepreneur, a family business across generations, smes are the engine of innovation, of specialisation, of growth and, as in my constituency, home to many so-called hidden champions. but the very backbone of our economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises, are struggling hard: financial crisis, coronavirus crisis, climate crisis, energy crisis, cost of living crisis, shortage of human resources, inflation to name just a few. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one. on the same train, a relief package has been announced, including tax reform. but we don't need flowery headlines and announcements. we need tangible relief and solutions, just as our companies are now short-termly getting through the winter. to be clear, a corporate tax reform is not helping smes in europe at all. most of them don't even have to pay a corporate tax. the 2020 sme strategy has had no effect more bureaucracy instead of relief, more planning instead of market economy. no sme representatives, the one-in-one-out principle is being trampled on. that's a terrible record. the green transformation, the way out of the crisis, is only possible with our smes. please act now!
madam president, madam commissioner, we are facing a debate - i would venture to say - that is important and, moreover, urgent, because the data speak for themselves in the european union. smes account for more than two thirds of the productive and employment fabric in the european union and represent 99% of the fabric of the european union. they therefore provide employment in a large majority of the european union and, moreover, that employment is usually of high quality, fixed population in the territories and, therefore, the challenge for the european union is to provide answers. we are many political groups agree on the diagnosis, but i think it is also time to give answers. and it is true that yesterday the president of the commission, in the debate on the state of the union, referred to certain measures to promote and help smes in difficult times like the one we are in. but look, the latest report on digitisation in the european union says that smes in the european union are much less digitized than large companies, energy costs are increasing, and defaults are getting bigger and longer. so it is time to give concrete answers. and my question to the commission is: when are we going to have a coordinated response for small and mediumsized enterprises? how are we going to facilitate this attraction of talent to the european union? and, above all, how are we going to help them to achieve this homogeneous digitisation in all the countries of the union?
madam president, this has become a mantra in europe: 'think small first'. how many times have we said that smes are the backbone of our economy? and then there is a reality, a very hard reality: yesterday covid, today the energy crisis, a reality that requires new actions. that is why we, renew europe, wanted this debate to be initiated by martina dlabajová, whom i would like to thank on behalf of my group. it is time to 'act small first': in the face of crises, a plan to support smes and our strategic autonomy as europeans is a top priority. i also welcome the commission's commitment to review the late payment directive. this is an intolerable scandal that cannot continue. the failure of public administrations to act quickly is totally unacceptable, especially in times of crisis. reform is urgently needed to do justice to our entrepreneurs. finally, with the ecological and digital transitions, we need to clarify what is expected of smes, make clear, efficient, coherent and adapted choices for our entrepreneurs.
madam president, small businesses have been facing a very difficult test in the last three years. first it was the pandemic, and then the disruption of the supply-customer relationship, the price increases. now the rise in energy prices is caused primarily by the criminal russian invasion of ukraine. the situation is not simple, as we know, small businesses employ the most people and create the most jobs. so helping small businesses is helping the whole economy. particularly after the pandemic, those priorities have focused on improving access to capital, reducing the administrative burden, improving the quality of the workforce. but today, helping small businesses must focus primarily on lowering energy prices. i therefore very much appreciate what the commission president said from this place just yesterday when she announced the sme package and when she dealt with energy prices. that's what we need to address right now to improve the situation of small businesses. and we need to deal with this really quickly. separating the price of gas from the price of energy, the potential for gas price stagnation and also the shifting, redistribution of those extra profits away from the energy companies right to those who need it. and that includes small businesses. we also need to address their liquidity, reduce the administrative burden and we must not forget the completion of the common market, especially in the area of services. completion of the digital market and building a genuine capital union. help small businesses. it's really helping citizens, helping families, so thank you to everyone who's doing it.
madam president, madam commissioner, today we are recalling that there are more than 24 million smes in europe employing more than 100 million europeans: we must not forget that there is no better social policy than job creation, but it is precisely these 24 million smes that have been suffering the consequences of the crises of the last fifteen years and, nevertheless, have been able to continue to run their business. in recent years they have been hit hard by the covid-19 lockdown, and also by the great inflation and supply crisis caused by the russian invasion of ukraine. the european union launched a wonderful instrument called the next generation eu funds, an instrument that allowed, what it sought, was to inject liquidity and transform our economy to make it more competitive and help precisely smes and those who create jobs to get ahead, but the big question is where are these funds; where are the funds for smes, for digitization, to train their workers, to help them increase their exports, to shape new services that can lead to new lines of business; where are these funds. i ask this precisely because the union has already announced that it has transferred to the member states 100 billion euros of the 800 billion in the next generation funds, and the reality is that these funds are not reaching smes, they are not reaching the productive fabric, they are not reaching the real economy. and i ask the commission what it is going to do; what it is going to do to ensure that the funds arrive, arrive quickly, arrive at those who need them, and how it is going to require the member states to make public the actual implementation data: because without data there is no transparency, and without transparency there is very doubtful implementation.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner here and the other members who have worked on these two regulations, which i consider to be fundamental, because they are the two great pillars of the health union, a project which was obviously launched in the wake of the pandemic. the commissioner has pointed out that she made the proposal in november 2020 and there i do allow a small criticism: i think it should have been done even earlier. 'all's well that ends well' but already in april of that year spanish socialists like javi lópez, césar luena and myself raised the question of the health union with the commission. the socialists and democrats group also made the same proposal in may 2020. in any case, we are now in a situation where we can make the most of this health union. why would you do that? because, as has been said, the coronavirus pandemic is not completely over and the most likely scenario is surely to have annual vaccination campaigns targeted at the whole of european society.
madam president, while many fishing areas in the atlantic ocean are being closed without any scientific evidence, and without any socioeconomic impact studies, we see how countries which were traditionally self-sufficient in fish consumption have to import it, which is also contrary to the green pact. while we restrict european fisheries, which are the most sustainable, the ones that bring low-carbon food to the homes of europeans, we are importing more and more fish from third countries, which we do not control, and which in many cases do not fish in the same way as us, on the basis of sustainability. we therefore call on the european commission to show real sensitivity, which is not being shown, to the people fishing in our seas. it is time to put an end to this imbalance between environmental sustainability and the economic and social sustainability that our seafarers are suffering.
madam president, madam vice-president, mr rapporteur, europe is certainly making progress in the great crises, but also in the small things. and this is a small thing that is going to make the lives of our citizens easier in an extraordinary way and that sometimes gives meaning to what we do in this parliament. and it does so for several reasons: first, because it gets, obviously, less cables, less waste, less costs, less waste. it's more savings, more clarity, more information, more choice and more environmental protection. but above all because it sends a signal that this parliament puts the citizens at the centre of its debates, because this parliament is ambitious and does not give in to the pressure of the lobbies, which are terrible and very powerful, and because we are making progress by imposing rules on a global scale which not only articulate our internal market but also send signals to the whole planet. i think that makes sense of legislative work. ten years is too long, and that also shows that self-regulation is not enough, that it does not work and that this parliament and the commission must go hand in hand to be ever more ambitious and to cut down on time because ten years of that tangle of cables which i see the rapporteur has on the table means a lot of wasted time, resources and money, and a lot of inefficiency. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on his extraordinary work and because that work gives meaning to this parliament. because when we put citizens at the center and work together, we are unstoppable.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, and mr agius saliba, today is an important day for the european union. a text that the various european institutions have been working on since 2009 is finally adopted. but you'll agree with me that it's late: since 2009... more than 13 years to adopt this directive on the common european charger; i often compare this process to that of roaming. i think europe has decided to be brave. i think we have to deal with this issue, which is certainly reflected in the daily lives of european citizens. according to the latest eurobarometer surveys, 95% of european citizens consider this common charger to be a positive thing for european integration and our single market. this text therefore covers two very important aspects: it is part of the european union's circular economy, and therefore of the citizens' ambition to continue transforming our planet into a much greener model; but above all, it also favours the sector. we cannot continue to allow european citizens to pay for chargers they already have at home when they buy a new device. so europe is brave, we are being brave. i hope that from 2026 onwards the commission will also be able to take wireless chargers into account, as it has promised in the text, which is another important aspect.
madam president, commissioner, the european union is facing the international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities next year and we must do our duty. the european parliament must be involved in this monitoring mechanism of the convention. this european accessibility centre is going in the right direction; i thank mrs langensiepen for her work on this report, although we would have liked to have been able to keep a physical accessibility centre. we are from the european accessibility act. we have now agreed on the accessibility centre and the aim is to move towards a genuine european accessibility agency. we ask the commission to give management as soon as possible to consortia including disabled people, and not to specialist consultancies. as the industry says, "nothing for us without us" - nothing for disabled people without disabled people. we also ask for sufficient funding to meet the objectives and to make a real european accessibility agency a reality as soon as possible.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to turn a blind eye to the fact that some roma communities are still marginalised and live in extreme poverty and social exclusion. their situation will be aggravated by rising inflation and energy prices, which will particularly affect the most vulnerable. we need a european action plan now to eradicate roma settlements, which not only lack decent housing, but also lack access to basic services, health care, health and education, not to mention employment, social inclusion or even the environmental health risks present in these settlements. coordinated action at eu level is needed, in close cooperation with local and regional authorities. the efforts made so far by the member states are not sufficient. european funds are often not used to eradicate the poverty and social exclusion of the roma community because of a lack of political will, administrative barriers or even indirect, structural or intersectoral discrimination. the commission and the council must take a more active stance. we must do everything possible to avoid violations of european law, the union's founding values and the rights of individuals. my group has therefore called for the establishment of an early warning mechanism to report on the risks of abuse or misuse of european union funds intended to address the situation of roma in marginal settlements. on the other hand, and with this in mind, the eradication of the deprivation in which many roma communities live must be part of an anti-poverty strategy that my group urgently demands, with adequate investment to combat and eradicate poverty effectively through the urgent implementation of the minimum wage directive, the increase in the budget for the european child guarantee, the intensification of efforts in minimum income schemes and the support of the european union for adequate housing.
madam president, commissioner, according to the eurobarometer survey, a majority of europeans believe that discrimination against roma people is widespread in their country. this perception is more than corroborated by national and european data and reports. in the european union, roma face discrimination and anti-romaism every day: when they go to school, enter a shop, go to a job interview or try to access housing - not to mention access to justice. we urgently need policies that address the stereotypes, prejudices, structural racism or institutional violence to which roma are subjected. we need ambitious instruments, such as the european action plan we are voting on tomorrow. we need more coordination, states making full use of the available funding, the commission assessing the measures taken and acting as guardian of the treaties in the event of violation of rights in certain states. racism and anti-gypsyism are the main reasons why roma are not recognised as full citizens in practice, why they are often reduced to poverty and social exclusion and why the contributions of the roma are not recognised. the fight against racism and anti-gypsyism, which we are also seeing in this debate, must be transversal and it is essential that it should appear in all the principles of the european social pillar. in spain, for example, anti-gypsyism is to be included as a hate crime in the penal code and a subcommittee has been set up in congress to study a state pact against anti-gypsyism. gypsy history and culture have been included in compulsory secondary school textbooks and a specific section on gypsy memory has been incorporated into the new law on democratic memory, thus recognising the role of collective memory in the rights violations that continue to occur. let us hope that this is followed in the rest of europe.
madam president, this report speaks of political will and coordinated work between institutions to put an end to the settlements of the roma population. in madrid, one of the richest communities in europe, there is one of the largest roma settlements in europe, cañada real, just 14 kilometres from puerta del sol. we are talking about the coordination needed by the community of madrid to put an end to this situation: yes, the government has already allocated 5 million euros for the settlements, but we need the community of madrid to get involved too. we therefore ask the commission to demand that the community of madrid coordinate its efforts to put an end as soon as possible to the suffering of 7 000 people, including 1 800 children, who have been without electricity for two years. the most urgent thing is to give access to electricity to this population, which is going through the cold, which is going through the snowfalls, which is going through the high heat that we are enduring this summer alone. we therefore ask the commission to require the community of madrid to coordinate and, if the community of madrid fails to do so, to impose sanctions on it under the infringement procedure for violations of the human rights of the roma population in the community of madrid.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i thank all the people, ladies and gentlemen, who have taken part in this resolution. but let us not be conformist or complacent, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission. our objective is threefold: to protect wild flora and fauna, to prevent illegal and uncontrolled trade and, finally, to protect biodiversity. however, there are six areas, which i will mention in passing here in this house, in which we can substantially improve this cites convention. first, zoonotic diseases: we have to tackle the live animal markets, but we have to really tackle them, because i think the signal that we've gotten over the last three years is pretty clear. second, cybercrime. what is the internet in this field that we're talking about this afternoon? well, it's the big crack through which all the illegal wildlife trade slips. but we're not ambitious either. we quote it, we mention it, ladies and gentlemen, yes, but we are not ambitious. tigers and other big cats: we cannot allow them to be traded when they are bred in captivity. we didn't make it clear. besides, tigers, by the way, are a protected species and should be bred solely for conservation, never for commercial purposes. i ask: do we have a clear legal framework for trade, in this case, in live african elephants? we didn't make that clear either. not to mention that we have an obligation to reduce the demand for live wild animals and wildlife products. of course, we must tell our fellow europeans that we must reduce that demand, that we cannot live with these modes of consumption any longer. and finally, we need a positive list of animals that can be kept as pets. we don't have it either. so we are taking steps and we can be happy, but they are not enough. let us not be conformists, much less complacent. we have to be more ambitious when we go to panama.
depopulation is a problem throughout europe, but especially in countries such as spain, where three out of every four municipalities are losing inhabitants. and i'm not just talking about small rural municipalities, but even medium-sized cities. that is why it was so important to me that the definition of depopulated areas should be included in the erdf regulation, because that would allow these areas to have a comprehensive action plan with which to revitalise them and attract employment. and one of the measures now accepted by the commission is to allow differentiated taxation, tax benefits for companies established in these areas, which is essential for creating jobs. and i'm talking, for example, about bonuses to workers. however, we see that the member states are not using this measure. in the case of spain, we have been waiting for ten months and i would like to know your opinion. and my second question concerns the just transition fund, which is very important in preventing depopulation. we also see that some member states have not yet submitted their just transition plan. now we're in danger of losing an annuity. i would also like to know if this is so, if we can lose an annuity from these funds and what we have to do about it.
we have already spoken of this on other occasions, madam commissioner, and the demographic challenge of depopulation is a democratic challenge which merits the cooperation of all the institutions at all levels and, of course, at european level. you have referred to the strategies at national and regional level. my region, aragon, has been a pioneer in adopting a law for the revitalization of the rural environment, which includes active policies similar to those proposed by the commission in its communication on a long-term vision for the rural areas of the union; stimulating measures to combat the decline of the rural environment; initiatives to increase the number of enterprises and services in demographically deprived areas; and also other instruments, such as administrative decentralization or the development of a programme for the territorial management of economic revitalization that promotes an entrepreneurial culture, as well as one of the main innovations, which we also asked for here in parliament, the application of the principle of rural verification to assess the impact of the main regulations on rural areas. in addition to the actions you mentioned, at regional or national level, my question is: is there a common european strategy for combating depopulation with binding measures, and in that strategy, incorporate the application of the principle of rural verification to the structural funds?
madam president, commissioner, 'either you vote as we say or you suffer the consequences' is going to be the new motto of the commission and parliament. from threats to cut funding to "be careful who you deal with, be careful what government you put together". we are now in the process of trying to implement these threats, as the commission is asking for up to 65% of some cohesion policy funds to be withheld from hungary, just because two thirds of hungarians voted for fidesz and viktor orbán. of course, the commission itself cannot quantify the impact on the union budget, which it claims to want to protect. the one who will suffer the penalty is the hungarian people, in the midst of an economic emergency that has provoked their climate fanaticism by putting us at the feet of foreign powers. it is enough to use the institutions to contaminate electoral processes in the member states and impose its ideological agenda. there are millions of europeans out there who look to the future with despair and you offer threats and sanctions and all they will need is a blanket to cover themselves from the cold in winter. you guys are going from bad to worse. they're getting more and more nervous and radicalized. i told you last time, if you don't know, get out of here. we're ready and willing. we are the voice of moderation and the voice of common sense.
madam president, the defence of the founding values of the european union and strict respect for the rule of law must be paramount. we are glad that the commission has, after so long and thanks to the efforts of parliament, activated the conditionality mechanism against the orbán government. the only thing that has gotten the hungarian government to take the warnings seriously is 7.5 billion euros. the continuing breaches of the rule of law in the fight against corruption and fraud in public procurement, the weaknesses in the handling of conflicts of interest and the attacks on the independence of the judiciary pose a risk to the european budget and it is therefore essential to take measures to protect it. hungary is one of the biggest beneficiaries of european regional funds, so if you want to be in our club you will have to meet the established standards. not only are you there to receive aid, there are also conditions to be met. we have only a commitment to reforms so far, so we'll have to keep pushing until they become a reality. in the council, for their part, they only have to decide whether they are defending democracy and the rule of law or whether they prefer to look the other way.
mr president, mr high representative: 'women, life and freedom' is much more than a cry for struggle and resistance by kurdish women. it's a spell, a warning to sailors: there can be no free society without free women. today, in a world where conflict, authoritarianism and inequality are on the rise, freedom, equality and hope are named after women: mahsa amini, hadith najafi, ghazale chelavi, hanane kia and mahsa mogoi. women in iran are risking their lives for their right to live on their own terms and to destroy the patriarchy, the state and the religion that oppresses, dominates, subjugates and discriminates against them. their struggle, their resistance, is an example to us all. from here i want to send you a message of admiration and solidarity: we are on your side. we will always stand with the women who demand freedom for themselves and for their societies. (the speaker closes her speech in a non-official language of the union)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. well, what does it say about a regime that kills a young woman for not wearing her hijab properly? that says the chapter on such a regime must be closed. anyone who kills in the name of god is himself an apostate. we will never stop supporting women who are fighting back against archaic subjugation and degrading patronage. and we will never stop supporting protests like in iran with all our heart, with all our soul, because they are just. iranian women have long been a symbol of resistance because they are all about everything: breathing freely, being able to determine their own lives and being respected and accepted as a human being, even as a woman! you can't even kill the desire for freedom, equality and justice with an axe. this idea cannot be stifled or condemned. iran is a wonderful country with a great history and culture. but now it's time to start a new chapter with a woman's handwriting. because enough is enough.
mr president, the iranian women’s protest is a cry for freedom, for their freedom and for the freedom of the forgotten women of afghanistan or africa. we respect the protest for what it is. they rebel against the dictatorship of men who imprison them, bully them, torture them, limit their lives simply because they are women and want to live in equality. there is a common thread that connects this protest with the protest of previous generations of women who took to the streets because they were not allowed to vote, they were not allowed to be involved in politics, they were not allowed to work within the same jobs as men, they were not allowed to earn the same salary as men. they ask for complete freedom. they ask to be able to live and to do with their future and their bodies what they want, decide their life for themselves, in full freedom. that is why they shout ‘azadi, azadi, azadi’ – freedom, freedom, freedom. and we must listen to this cry. we must help.
seventeen days have passed since protests began following the killing of mahsa amini in iranian police facilities. how many iranians have been killed? hundreds. how many have been arrested or injured? thousands. we don’t know for sure. women are beaten and dragged away by police. but let us get it right: this is not only about mandatory veiling or the hijab. this is about basic freedom. this is about a regime founded on systematic repression and cruelty against its people. a regime headed by someone fully involved in the massacre of 1988, a crime against humanity that has already come to european courts. a swedish court has imposed a life sentence on an iranian official for taking part in this crime. there is an uprising going on in iran, and we have not only to condemn repression, but to support the victims of repression. we need to send a clear sign of our concern and condemnation, but also an unequivocal message of support: europe means pluralism, democracy, freedom of religion, respect for all belief, equal rights between men and women. and those iranians struggling for their rights, risking their lives, deserve to see europe firmly on their side. europe at its best: friendly, supportive and committed. there should be specific demands to the iranian government on the release of prisoners and accountability of perpetrators, no matter how long it takes. but neither the nuclear deal nor the oil resources of iran can justify turning a blind eye or watering down our response. appeasement, we should know, never works.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we describe the extraordinary movement that has been carried forward with such courage by the women and young people of iran since the assassination of mahsa amini and so many others since? some say it's a revolt. no, this is a revolution. not this islamic revolution, the mullahs' revolution, which is only a regression, this regime of oppression and corruption, this regime of murders, imprisonment of protesters, human rights defenders, journalists. this regime of women's fear, their submission to the veil and the law. what we see with such admiration is a revolution of consciences, hearts and bodies that can no longer be stifled and suffer. a revolution of liberation and civilization where women, by taking off their veils, carry the banner of freedom, equality, brotherhood, sisterhood. so the european union must not compromise. it must punish the perpetrators of these crimes. against those who spread terror, let us support those who defend women's liberation. the struggles and values they carry are those of europe: 'woman, life, freedom'.
mr president, do you know who jina amini is? yes. she’s the woman who paid with her life for being free. however, everybody here has called her masha, ignoring her kurdish identity. women in iran are showing us how to fight for freedom. sadly, this struggle has also become the perfect platform to show moral superiority without any real action. this is why nobody mentions that amini was kurdish, or that the most brutal repression in this crisis is happening in kurdistan. these things remain hidden because they expose uncomfortable contradictions, like defending kurdistan is difficult if one wants to be friends with turkey. what is being done to protect women in our countries that are forced by their communities to wear religious garments is basically nothing. we call this religious freedom knowing that religion or freedom have nothing to do with it. the struggle of women in iran is the new frontier of human rights, of women’s rights. we must rise above hypocrisy to support them with facts.
mr president, (the speaker uses a slogan in an unofficial language) 'women, life, freedom': these words have been echoing in every corner of iran for the last 18 days, since mahsa 'zina 'amini was beaten to death by the tehran police of morality. she was young, she was kurdish and, according to the law of the mullahs, she was not wearing her headscarf quite properly. it wasn't the first, it won't be the last. nearly a hundred dead and thousands arrested in eighteen days: these iranian women are giving the world an unprecedented lesson in courage, and they are no longer alone, they are joined by men, young people, students, athletes. it is the star striker of the national football team, sardar azmoun, an icon, who today challenges the authorities in the name of women. anger mobilizing all over iran and the world. so what do we do, mr. borrell? seven countries are calling for additional sanctions, targeted, personal, smart. i am glad to hear you support this request because it is our imperative duty to respond, and now our duty, strong of our freedoms, is to say his name: mahsa amini.
mr president, dear colleagues, human dignity, freedom, democracy – values that we claim to hold very dear in the european union, values that are the basis of the functioning of our societies. now we see a protest movement in iran that is fighting for exactly these values, led by brave women. a protest movement that has come together, and that can change not only iran, but the whole region, and eventually the whole world. with a force and determination that is unprecedented, people are going to the streets, and they go to the streets knowing full well that they could sacrifice their own lives doing this. and they rightfully ask us, ‘what are your words, your declarations, your banners worth if now, in this moment, you are not standing with us?’. so the eu response has to be clear: more sanctions and more determined and louder condemnation of this brutal regime, and amplifying the voices of the people who are protesting and who have sacrificed so much in this revolution.
president. - i have the greatest respect for the men and women of iran who are standing up against a criminal regime. it takes courage. that's what's so quiet. it takes little courage to stand here and voice my disgust at the regime in iran. in europe i can dress as i please and i can speak as i please. the protesters in iran are risking their lives in the hope of a better future, a future that is safe and free. that is the primary responsibility of any government. the demonstrators deserve our unconditional support, not only now that we are faced with the horrific death of mahsa amini, but for as long as it is necessary, as long as the criminal regime of the ayatollahs is in power in iran. to the women of iran and indeed to all the women of the world who are standing up against oppression, i want to say: i see you, i hear you, i admire you and i am on your side.
i am not going to go into detail. it is very difficult in this debate to interrupt the speakers after a minute or 30 minutes because they have very personal, very emotional and very correct closing remarks. i must therefore, because i want to be flexible in this speech, firstly close the list of speakers for spontaneous speeches and secondly tell you that, depending on the schedule, i can take a maximum of two or three people for spontaneous speeches. eight or nine are reported at this time. i would ask for your understanding and for the time allowed for speaking to be respected, as far as the content of the speech allows.
mr. president, there are monstrosities happening in iran. the police of the terrorist regime of the ayatollahs kill a woman by beating and torture for showing her hair, for wearing that chador wrongly, for wearing a headscarf wrongly which is being propagandized by the european union and which is being protected by the european union in posters and in its own publicity. then the police kill and kill and kill women and men who protest against this monstrous regime. it's more than 300. and it may be, it may be that this is the beginning of the end of that regime. but, curiously, very little is said in our media, in our european media, which are so social democratic and well-trained, very little because there are other interests. in 2019, mr. borrell, we had 1,500 deaths in the month of december. a month later you were shaking hands with the authorities, the heads of the assassins, those who stained all the streets of the cities of iran with blood. behind it, there are interests, apparently very powerful. the european union must end the agreements with this regime. the european union must stop treating iran as if it were just any partner; it is a terrorist partner, with whom it cannot be a partner under any circumstances. he has quite poisoned european politics with his financing of spanish communists who are currently in government.
mr president, the degree of involvement of regional factors in the conflict can be graphically measured by that horrifying video we have been talking about, not of executions, but of murders, and whatever the date of that video. the international community had to admit, how can it be otherwise, that russia and, to a lesser extent, turkey would act as proxy forces. but russia is logically in something else and armenia has been left to its fate by its theoretical partner and protector. russia sent troops to kazakhstan for an internal problem, but did not send any aid to armenia in the face of a military invasion. turkey, which has been so active and vocal on so many occasions in foreign affairs, has also shown no sign of its recently touted mediation capacity, only bellicose phrases. the same drones that protect ukraine are attacking armenia, a good example of this attitude, sometimes difficult to understand, of our turkish partners, i repeat, turkish partners in nato. and turkey is also a candidate for membership of the union. i think, mr borrell, that we have some greater leverage over turkey than over other actors. is there any measure in this direction?
i am taking over from my colleague bettina vollath, who has left parliament in the last few days, as my group's negotiator on this report. i would like to thank him for his work on this report and many others of the droit committee and wish him the best of luck in his future. i would also like to thank mr urbán for his attitude and ambition. this could have been a more filling and predictable role on our agenda, and yet it is not, thanks to that ambition which he himself has expressed in his report, not only in his previous speech, not only because of that well-connected idea of the right to sanitation and the right to water. i think there are also many ideas that we need to explore: non-discriminatory access to water, anticipatory and preventive action, water in refugee camps - which he has not referred to - or due diligence by european companies in their water management in their activity in the rest of the world. this is a global problem, and therefore the analysis and solutions have to be global.
madam president, madam president of the commission, vice-president, mr weber's speech obliges me to change the beginning of my speech. it seems to me that the fact that the godfather of his party's agreement in italy with the party that succeeded mussolini - with italian neo-fascism - is talking here about authoritarianism is just a bad joke. focusing on the subject of the debate, i want to start by condemning, once again, russia's war and invasion of ukraine. at a time when the threat of the use of nuclear weapons is real, we again insist that this war must stop, and our best weapon remains the diplomatic channel. but declarations of intent are not enough, much less if they come from those who have been sowing the seeds of confrontation for years. mr putin is the one most responsible for this war, but we are not sold on the fact that nato is working for peace, since its growth towards the east for so many years is evidence that it wants a return to the bipolar world, to a new cold war. all this is always to the detriment of multilateralism and the sovereignty of peoples. nor does the authoritarianism of the ukrainian government, which has outlawed eleven opposition parties and continues to persecute trade unions and social movements in the country. the european union has had a historic opportunity to develop an autonomous foreign policy, but it has decided to subordinate itself once again to the interests of the united states. european citizens are in a very difficult situation. it is the working classes who have to pay the consequences of this crisis. we speak of a firm commitment to peace and to the defence of the rights of the working classes, but the european union should rethink what it is doing, if only to safeguard its own interests. we're still in time. we therefore call on european diplomacy to revive the role of the osce, which has now disappeared from the scene. this is the best way to reach an agreement that will put an end to the war, an objective necessity for security and peace in europe. instead of sending arms and making exalted appeals, let us consider the proposal that mexico has put to the united nations general assembly, for example, in which they propose peace talks and tripartite mediation between the un, india and the vatican. this is the right way to de-escalation: more diplomacy, not more nato.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of course we must now strengthen sanctions and all the aid to ukraine in order to ensure that ukraine wins a military victory and that the atrocities stop. the high representative was telling us how much of a clash of civilizations, a clash of values, is at play, and that this has already been staged by vladimir putin. unfortunately, this clash of civilizations, this clash of values, is also present in european societies and is affecting the indispensable unity of the european union. look at all the far right today trying to rebuild their accommodations, their complacency with putin using the rising food prices, the rising energy prices and social injustices to serve their vision of values. so the european commission, forgive me, but on the question of the decoupling of gas prices from electricity prices, you have been too late. we must also act more quickly on the taxation of superprofits. what example? total has already paid eur 2,6 billion in advance to its shareholders. that's more than the french budget puts towards thermal renovation. if there is no social justice in the energy transition for the climate, if there is no social justice in the face of the war in ukraine, then we will lose european unity, and the conflict of values, there is little chance that we will win it too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the sanctions madness, which is being called on again today by a left-wing conservative majority in this house and in the commission, made up of the greens, the social democrats and the conservatives, is driving this continent to its limits. you should see how people are out there, with record inflation, with bankruptcy, with bankruptcy, with poverty. people don't know how to get through the winter. the advice to these people is: stop heating, stop showering, and freeze through the winter. i think that is a very wrong way to go, not only from an economic point of view but also from a human point of view. there are voices here in these difficult times that speak out for peace and it is not the evil right wing, as you say. these are quite illustrious voices, like the one of probably the most successful entrepreneur of the moment, elon musk. there are voices that speak for peace, like the pope here, who is urging us to return to the table and finally find a way to end death, to ensure prosperity in europe, to ensure that we have an energy supply through this winter, so that people do not have to freeze or fear losing their jobs, putting their wealth in the sand, losing their savings in record inflation and dragging this continent into ever greater problems. i can therefore only appeal to you once again to come here with a strong european voice to plead for the parties to the conflict to come to the table and work together to find a solution that can be accepted by all.
mr president, putin continues his escalation of war: the call to the reserves, the nuclear threats, the illegitimate referendums. europe must respond firmly with sanctions against russia, without any hesitation in the face of this war criminal. in the face of tyranny, he doesn't back down a step. but we also face the economic battle of war, against inflation and the prices of the shopping basket and energy. we must give an urgent response to families and smes. they don't make it to the end of the month. in spain the shopping basket has gone from being one of the cheapest in the union to one of the most expensive. companies are tripling their costs because of the energy surge. citizens and businesses already save energy, not because we ask them to: they can't afford it. in spain, while families are suffocating economically, the state will collect 30 000 billion more from inflation than in the previous year. we must put that money back into the pockets of the citizens. we need to lower taxes and not ruin millions of families and businesses.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, today we are discussing russian and anti-european propaganda, following a proposal from the european people's party. but before i go into the value of freedom of expression and pluralism, let me make one thing clear: there is no greater source of russian propaganda than the one the european people's party makes possible by whitewashing far-right parties and putting them on the red carpet to govern. and there is no better sounding board for anti-european propaganda than the impoverishment faced by the european working classes, who see how their basic needs, such as energy or food, are now priced in luxury goods. shutting down the media; jailing a journalist; trying to impose warmongering as the only discourse; silencing, politically persecuting or labelling as pro-putin or anti-european those who do not support the escalation of the war or defend diplomacy and dialogue... all this, believe me, has nothing to do with fighting propaganda, but with dangerously restricting freedom of expression and pluralism. pablo gonzález is a basque journalist who was covering the conflict for several spanish media outlets when he was arrested in poland. he wasn't doing russian propaganda, but he wasn't pro-nato either. maybe that's part of the problem. he's been in prison for over seven months. without trial, without formal accusation, incommunicado, under a regime of imprisonment typical of a totalitarian state, and extending without a definitive date a "preventive prison". in war or in peace, to imprison journalism and freedom of information is not to fight propaganda, but rather to pave the way for it to have an effect. i take this opportunity to demand from this house that pablo gonzález be released immediately and that the right to information and freedom of the press be respected.
mr president, mr commissioner, it’s really hard to say what is worse, russian war of aggression or kremlin long—term propaganda. there is a clear political agenda to boost disinformation, propaganda, stimulate regional tensions to destabilise, while supporting radical and populist political options all over europe. pro—russian political options come from the extremes, from populist backgrounds, and they serve as putin’s ‘useful idiots’, often as well—paid ‘useful idiots’. however, sadly one can find them even among some former and current eu prime ministers. i would also say that the eu was keeping its eyes shut on this matter for years, hence the consequences. putin’s cronies are using dangerous, cynical and manipulative misinterpretations. they are trying to strengthen pro—russian sentiment by undermining our cohesion, our unity, and by speaking against the sanctions. they are using the rising costs of living, the energy crisis and inflation to speak favourably of russia and to advocate for the return to business as usual. we cannot return to business as usual and we cannot overlook the vicious russian war of aggression and their war crimes. russian attempts to weaponise energy is just a final confirmation of this. we would also add that no one in europe can now sit on two chairs. serbia, for example, remains the only european country besides belarus that has not imposed sanctions on russia. the recent signing of the agreement with russia in the un is a slap in the face for their enlargement perspective, but primarily to their citizens that want to join the eu. we need to continue countering this propaganda, by giving strong support to civil society and fact checkers, not only in the eu, but also in our immediate neighbourhood.
mr president, commissioner, minister, dear colleagues, the kremlin’s long—term, systematic and very poisonous disinformation and propaganda war against the west has been aimed at weakening our value orientation and our adequate perception of reality. let’s admit, russia’s state information policy has imposed influence on us and our partners’ – such as ukraine in particular – societies for decades and has managed to create confusion in people’s minds, attempting to weaken critical thinking and trust in state institutions and democratic processes. we must end the presence of the kremlin and russia’s state-sponsored propaganda and disinformation channels in our information space – though it’s nothing to do with information – because it is unjustifiable. the kremlin’s empire of lies cannot be accepted in the west and our societies. we must curb the cases in which russian—funded european ngos, political, scientific and cultural institutions become agents of influence on our side.
mr president, commissioner, the disinformation by the agitation and propaganda machine of putin's russia has been going on for many years and has of course been aggravated by the criminal aggression against ukraine. it must be fought with truth, not censorship. and there are many temptations to do the latter. the kremlin has for many years been paying groups and parties in europe, from the far right, the far left and also, gentlemen, from the mainstream parties, which are you. because the euro-putins or the european putin acolytes are basically the big parties in germany, which have brought us in europe to this situation of general prostration to putin. we do not know whether putin would have dared to do a number of things if he had not had these guarantees that have been given to him for 15 years, 15 years of helping him to achieve total dependence on europe, on mr schröder, on mr steinmeier, on mr scholz, on the whole social democratic party of germany in general. but we also have this disinformation and propaganda in the spanish socialist workers' party, which is the partner of all those countries that vote against the condemnation of russia in america, in latin america, in the alliance of the são paulo forum and the puebla group, where the psoe is, where podemos is and where they have russia today making anti-european, anti-ukrainian, pro-russian propaganda, always with the support, as i say, of a spanish government. there's the mainstream, there's mr. putin's acolytes; they're here, in the big parties.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, the war of aggression against ukraine makes us see the full seriousness of the strategy of disinformation and interference. and the first conclusion is that misinformation and meddling is also a war. when we are faced with states that do not hide their ambitions, whether economic, territorial or nuclear, the disinformation they practice is the way to prepare the ground for the use of force. before putin bombed ukraine, he had bombed minds and opinions with a constant campaign of hate and demonization against ukrainians and their authorities. the military force came later. so let us know that misinformation is the canary in the mine: it always portends danger. after his military failures putin can only rely on one of these three hypotheses to work. first, the threat of nuclear weapons. secondly, a political change by some nato ally, in the hope that it will call into question the aid received by ukraine. and thirdly, the west's weary surrender. well, in any of these scenarios, and for them to work, it is essential for russia to use disinformation, interference, manipulation, and action on a massive scale through personalities and organizations in the political, social and media sectors who are allied with russia and who are related to its anti-western narrative. let us all be on our guard - institutions, politicians, the media, social organisations - to prevent public opinion in our countries from being contaminated by lies, threats and manipulation at this crucial moment.
mr president, commissioner, ukraine is at war with russia and europe has been engaged in a hybrid war with russia for years. a hybrid war of disinformation, propaganda and political interference that has supported the far right, the far left and the separatist parties. we've heard about salvini here. i'm not sure. we have heard of berlusconi. i'm not sure. we have heard of le pen. i'm not sure. but you know who we haven't heard from today? do you know who met three times in moscow, once in geneva and once in barcelona to ask for help from russia, its secret services, for the independence of catalonia, economic, political and military help, with the sending of ten thousand soldiers to support the independence of catalonia? carles puigdemont, former president of the generalitat of catalonia and its hard-line political core. this is a reality. they are facts. facts, not insinuations, real facts: communications with the secret services, with putin's immediate entourage, to ask for help for the independence of a part of european territory. the ukrainians will win the war, but are we going to win ours against the russians?
madam president, minister bek, it is a pleasure to see you back in the house. also to vice president schinas. the first thing i want to say on this subject is my thanks, especially to victor negrescu, for his work, already in his time as minister, to achieve accession to the schengen area, and also for having proposed the debate we are having today in the socialist group, since it was he who has carried it forward. the schengen area without internal borders has been strained, as we know, by the question of the pandemic and russia's aggression against ukraine. the commission has reiterated that bulgaria and romania have since 2011 fulfilled the necessary conditions to become full members of the schengen area. vice-president schinas knows this well. so, minister bek, it is time for the council to take a positive decision and step forward, and to recognise that romania and bulgaria have complied. and also to recognize the enormous work that the union is doing as ukraine's neighbours in the face of the crisis caused by the war. we must also, of course, respect croatia. we cannot speak of a united europe when citizens of member states who have fulfilled their obligations are deprived of their right to mobility.
mr president, commissioner, is trade an end in itself? trade is a goal. among other things, because we are the world's leading exporting region and millions of jobs depend on our exports. we must also talk about jobs when we talk about sustainable development. of ours, of the employment of our workers, too, that some forget. they talk about trade as if it were a vague and ethereal concept. no, it's a reality of our companies. but we just want to trade? no, we want this trade to contribute to sustainable development. in this context, we welcome this review of the plan and these 15 measures. but beware, ladies and gentlemen, for development to be sustainable it must be development and it must be sustainable. but development too. and if we want partners and allies who agree with us on our objectives, we must not only threaten sanctions, but offer cooperation, collaboration and trust. because between partners and allies, trust is a principle and a goal.
mr president, mr ambassador of pakistan, climate change has triggered a new humanitarian crisis of unprecedented proportions - more than 30 million people are affected. however, we in the european union still have not defined how we are going to protect people displaced by climate and have not defined the figure of the climate refugee. what would the european response be if we designed it with a pakistani girl in mind who has lost everything in the last few months? this girl, in addition to clean water, in addition to not getting sick, in addition to eating, dreams of going back to school. the european response to pakistan must therefore be based on the triple-neck approach. the humanitarian response alone cannot be given, not just by the directorate-general for civil protection and european humanitarian aid operations (echo), but it needs medium- and long-term development. this cannot be a purely humanitarian act. we are the largest donor of cooperation and we have an added responsibility. we need not only to strengthen climate change adaptation and mitigation, but to anticipate crises and strengthen the loss and damage mechanism. let us not forget pakistan's bet a few months ago to take in afghan refugees. our ngos are there. we must also engage the private sector to do more and give a response, so that this girl has a future and can continue to go to school in pakistan.
author. mr president, this is a good example of what human rights emergencies in this house could become. a wake-up call, not a battleground for sterile partisan battles. we sometimes throw human rights emergencies at one group or another, and that doesn't help the situation we're dealing with much. i welcome the tone of the negotiations, which have always been constructive, with the aim of putting haiti on the agenda. it is a subject that is rarely discussed because in many parts of the world some country has violent gangs. in haiti, it is the gangs who have a country: the successive disappearance of public institutions and the power vacuum has empowered a few gangs that started in the service of the political elites and now have these elites at their service. in haiti, talking about an economic crisis is an understatement. it's the most absolute poverty, and we won't mask it. so, empty of political power. the poverty. and the gangs running the country. the perfect storm. at least we create awareness.
mr president, commissioner, the tragic situation of journalists in myanmar is nothing more than a reflection of the systematic violation of human rights in that country. torture, murder, disappearances. i know. so what do we do about it, apart from resolutions and blah, blah, blah? what can we do? what instrument do we have to push and, i would say, force this dictatorial government to fulfil its commitments on respect for human rights? we have an instrument: "everything but weapons". does that sound familiar? in exchange for what? respect for fundamental human rights. so, having this instrument, why don't we use it? that is the question: why don't we use that instrument to force that government to respect minimum human rights standards? getting this scheme and becoming part of "everything but arms" has one condition. and if the condition is not met, we can do one thing, and not only can we, but we must: suspend it.
mr president, in the last few decades we have gone from the promise of a future of digital emancipation to a kind of new civilization based on the algorithmic organization of society. companies and administrations around the world are hiding behind a technological mind so that their decisions are more objective and efficient. but in that mind, there are the prejudices and aberrations that they try to hide. the machines we create ourselves are no better than we are, because most of the data they have is biased and reproduces discriminatory patterns that nobody is usually held accountable for. predictive policing, the allocation of social benefits or the collection of biometric data, for example, are racialized and the structural discrimination they generate hinders access to rights, goods and services for certain people. artificial intelligence reinforces the privileged place of whites and marginalizes blacks and roma, for example, in a way that plays a key role in power relations. behind the appearance of neutrality from the point of view of the machines, there are people who are persecuted for what they are and not for what they do, although many of them do not know it or would not know how to point to a culprit. it is clear that all this could be put to good use, but in europe we do not have the instruments to demand it. we have called for many measures from parliament: incorporating the intersectional approach into algorithms, collecting data disaggregated by racial and ethnic origin, banning racial profiling, conducting human rights impact studies, implementing compliance checks and human oversight or accountability. yet we still run after our own shadow.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, space is a sector of the future for europe and for our industry. this resolution, together with the legislation on secure connectivity, is a before and after for european space policy. more than 7,000 satellites and over a million pieces of debris orbit the earth, and their number is constantly increasing. more than 30 000 additional satellites are expected to be launched in the coming years, with an increasing risk of collision. space traffic management is therefore essential to ensure the safety of space infrastructure and operations, as well as sustainability. we need to strengthen our existing monitoring and surveillance capacities to preserve the strategic autonomy and competitiveness of european industry, while promoting international cooperation. we therefore call on the commission to propose binding legislation before 2024 to manage space traffic and facilitate the governance of the sector. it's not science fiction. the space economy is a reality with tremendous potential. the security and defence dimension of space is, as the war in ukraine has shown, a priority for europe. the commission is therefore proposing to set up a european space agency to support the development of the european space industry.
mr president, i’d like to thank the commissioner for taking the time to be here today and indeed, for his comments as regards coming forward with a proposal. it’s estimated that fertiliser is responsible for 40 to 60% of world food production. and prior to the war, 60% of fertiliser imports came from belarus or russia. in ireland, for example, fertiliser prices prior to the war were eur 280 a tonne and have gone to eur 1 000 a tonne. this is quite simply unsustainable, and we need measures to address this situation. the anti—dumping measures need to be removed to allow product to come in from abroad. but we also need to build our own capacity here, in europe, to be able to produce our own fertiliser. and we need to source gas from elsewhere, or alternatively, products from other parts of the world to ensure that we can supply the need that’s there. equally, as regards trading in fertilisers, there is a major issue where people don’t have the confidence to go out into the market at the moment for fear the price will be dropped and they’ll be left exposed. so traders are afraid of being exposed, and they also need finance to ensure that they can go into that market and secure that, because you’re talking about three times the amount of money that was previously needed. as others have said, we need to move away from our dependency on synthetic fertilisers. in ireland, we’re looking at things like clover and the development of other types of organic fertilisers. but this will take time. this will take a number of years. and frankly, i wanted this to be brought forward today – i asked for this to be brought forward today – because i believe in the short term, we need emergency measures, we need to act now for next spring. quite simply, next spring will be too late. it’s as simple as this: expensive fertiliser means expensive food. expensive food means it’s just not affordable for some people. and that, in its own way can lead to, we’ll say, the likes of famine in parts of the world or here, in europe, people are under pressure to afford that food. so we need to act. we need to act now. and i’d just like to thank my colleagues mr dorfmann and mr lins for their support in bringing this forward here today.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your kind words. to address rising food prices and supply, we need to clearly identify the problem of why this is happening. the cost of fertilizer is only half the price. agriculture is dependent on the production, science and technology produced by the energy industry. we haven't yet created the opportunity for every farm to innovate. if only the big guys can take advantage of them, then naturally the small guys will disappear and there will be less competition. another lesson not learned: the profits of processors and retail chains. i call on the commission to carry out a detailed analysis and, if necessary, to tax the surplus of these companies, as in the case of the electricity supplier. the affordability of food is a matter of survival for many europeans. we must not leave farmers and consumers alone in this difficult situation.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the market for energy resources, particularly gas, was destabilized as early as last fall, long before russia's aggression against ukraine. gas prices had already risen tenfold by then. almost immediately, this obviously translated into the price of fertilisers, because the cost of gas is, depending on the type of fertiliser, 70-80% of the cost of producing it. in this situation, there is already a shortage of about 70% of fertiliser production capacity throughout europe, including in poland. as the commissioner knows very well, it was our country that responded to this by subsidising fertiliser prices for farmers a programme of almost eur 0.8 billion. but of course, it can only be a one-time thing. eu action is therefore needed to bring down gas prices and it is possible. 17 eu countries have just proposed to introduce maximum prices for gas imported into the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i hope that by mid-october such a regulation will be prepared at the request of these seventeen countries and at least once this will lead to a reduction in the price of raw materials and thus to a positive effect on fertilizer prices. the commissioner's strategy is obviously necessary, but it will probably yield positive results later.
the present energy crisis, mr president, painfully demonstrates the enormous pollution caused by the production of fertilisers. the yara fertilizer plant in the netherlands alone pumps through 2 billion cubic meters of gas every year. this leads to a significant contribution to global warming and a record electricity price. but there are more disastrous consequences of the fossil addiction to agriculture. also, the depletion of our soils, the leaching of nutrients, and the polluting and polluting of our rivers, lakes, and oceans make it clear that we need less fertilizer, not more. and you can. nature and organic farmers have long since found the answer. peas, lupins and other butterfly flowers bind nitrogen, enriching the soil. green manure, crop rotation and truly circular agriculture, where we not only extract nutrients from the fields but also put them back on the fields, are effective, cheap and future-proof. we must get rid of fossil farming as quickly as possible, and of course also of agricultural subsidies.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our farmers are living through very difficult times, facing successive crises, from one of the worst droughts in recorded history, with particularly devastating effects in southern europe, to the impact of the russian war against ukraine, with particular reference to the shortage and the brutal rise in the price of fertilisers. these and other recent disruptions have a major impact on agriculture, food production and, of course, the cost of agricultural food products, and also increase the risk of food insecurity for millions of citizens in europe. the systems, as we know, do not change overnight, and we cannot fail to protect the most vulnerable, so all short-term measures that support farmers and food production and facilitate the supply of fertilisers on the domestic market in the short term will always be useful. but this crisis must also be seen as an opportunity to rethink the whole production system and to move towards action on multiple fronts. for example, we need to diversify the source of raw materials, we need to focus on decarbonising the european fertiliser production sector and we need to do this by clearly investing in renewable energy. but, at the same time, it is important, above all, that we know how to make the transition to more efficient and more circular nutrient management systems, which allow us to reduce in a sustainable way the need for chemical fertilisers, as, incidentally, advocated in the 'plants to pants' strategy, with clear benefits for our farmers, society and the environment. we need to make a clear commitment to optimising the recycling of nutrients, in particular waste, and to agro-ecological practices, and i therefore welcome the fact that, commissioner, i have announced a future communication on fertilisers and nutrient management. but i hope that the communication does not come with an essentially punitive focus and that it actually serves to help us to think about nutrient management and to think about this issue from the point of view of the strategic autonomy of fertilisers for europe. we cannot announce a communication one day and a nutrient management plan the next. we have to have a focus, we have to have a path, and we're here to help build that.
mr president, commissioner, after the invasion of ukraine, the price of gas in europe has increased by 800% compared with march last year. this increase has led to the closure of many european fertiliser production plants, resulting in a 70% reduction in production. this, together with the reduction in imports from russia and ukraine, has virtually eliminated the supply of fertilisers on the european market. with a food security crisis looming, it is imperative that we safeguard our production and to do so, we need affordable and accessible fertilisers. if action is not taken in time, the lack of availability of fertilisers will have very negative consequences for the agricultural sector and the entire value chain. we therefore need to take measures to reduce the cost of fertiliser production, as the united nations has called for. we need to reduce the tax burden on farmers so that they can cover their costs and remain competitive on the international market. and finally, we need to facilitate the import of active substances in all their forms, so as to avoid our production being put at a disadvantage compared with third countries.
mr president, commissioner, the increase in the cost of fertilisers, aggravated by the war in ukraine and the eventual closure of many of its manufacturing plants, threatens the crops of the coming agricultural seasons, and europe's heavy external dependence is not helping either. in the short term, the most important thing is to protect our farmers, who remain the weakest link in the food chain. the increase in costs must be spread throughout the whole chain so that distributors with astronomical profits also bear the consequences. the markets must be diversified and, if necessary, the anti-dumping measures temporarily lifted to meet supply needs. in the medium term, we should use more organic fertilisers, because they are closer and offer an alternative to dependence on gas. finally, in the long term, we must apply the farm-to-table strategy, which is the only framework that guarantees food sovereignty and resilience in the face of crises, because it prevents, among other things, the overuse of fertilisers. the field requires creativity, patience and sensitivity, and to succeed we must design our policies to adapt to the specific circumstances and the passage of time.
in writing. the spanish socialists in the european parliament consider it necessary to maintain and strengthen the eu's preparedness and response to new waves of covid and future pandemics. we consider the commission communication of 27 april covid-19: supporting the eu's preparedness and response for the future to be appropriate, although we believe that several aspects need to be strengthened. first, the commission should ensure that there is a coordinated vaccination and therapeutic strategy for future covid waves, as well as a long-term perspective on vaccine research. secondly, the commission should support and ensure that member states have sufficient healthcare capacities during the next wave of covid-19, including the protection of vulnerable groups, so that there is no risk of overburdening national health sectors again. thirdly, the commission should also support member states in reducing and preventing disinformation during this pandemic and possible future pandemics. finally, the commission should address cross-border pathogens within the framework of the 'one health approach' and available surveillance systems.
in writing. the spanish socialists in the european parliament consider it necessary to maintain and strengthen the eu's preparedness and response to new waves of covid and future pandemics. we consider the commission communication of 27 april covid-19: supporting the eu's preparedness and response for the future to be appropriate, although we believe that several aspects need to be strengthened. first, the commission should ensure that there is a coordinated vaccination and therapeutic strategy for future covid waves, as well as a long-term perspective on vaccine research. secondly, the commission should support and ensure that member states have sufficient healthcare capacities during the next wave of covid-19, including the protection of vulnerable groups, so that there is no risk of overburdening national health sectors again. thirdly, the commission should also support member states in reducing and preventing disinformation during this pandemic and possible future pandemics. finally, the commission should address cross-border pathogens within the framework of the 'one health approach' and available surveillance systems.
in writing. the spanish socialists in the european parliament consider it necessary to maintain and strengthen the eu's preparedness and response to new waves of covid and future pandemics. we consider the commission communication of 27 april covid-19: supporting the eu's preparedness and response for the future to be appropriate, although we believe that several aspects need to be strengthened. first, the commission should ensure that there is a coordinated vaccination and therapeutic strategy for future covid waves, as well as a long-term perspective on vaccine research. secondly, the commission should support and ensure that member states have sufficient healthcare capacities during the next wave of covid-19, including the protection of vulnerable groups, so that there is no risk of overburdening national health sectors again. thirdly, the commission should also support member states in reducing and preventing disinformation during this pandemic and possible future pandemics. finally, the commission should address cross-border pathogens within the framework of the 'one health approach' and available surveillance systems.
in writing. the spanish socialists in the european parliament consider it necessary to maintain and strengthen the eu's preparedness and response to new waves of covid and future pandemics. we consider the commission communication of 27 april covid-19: supporting the eu's preparedness and response for the future to be appropriate, although we believe that several aspects need to be strengthened. first, the commission should ensure that there is a coordinated vaccination and therapeutic strategy for future covid waves, as well as a long-term perspective on vaccine research. secondly, the commission should support and ensure that member states have sufficient healthcare capacities during the next wave of covid-19, including the protection of vulnerable groups, so that there is no risk of overburdening national health sectors again. thirdly, the commission should also support member states in reducing and preventing disinformation during this pandemic and possible future pandemics. finally, the commission should address cross-border pathogens within the framework of the 'one health approach' and available surveillance systems.
madam president, commissioner, poverty is certainly immoral and we should be ashamed that a rich territory like europe has 95 million people - 21.7% of its population - at risk of poverty and social exclusion. furthermore, this poverty is perpetuated from generation to generation, especially in the case of women. there are many, many poor working women, and they have been poor for a long time, especially in the neighbourhoods of many cities where there are large pockets of marginalization, as in my own country, for example, in andalusia, with 24 of the 30 municipalities with the lowest income in spain. so it is urgent to put in place an anti-poverty strategy for 2030 which must mean, on the one hand, developing economic and educational policies that do not generate inequality, strengthening our welfare states and also decent employment. on the other hand, we also need to put on the table a specific instrument, a new instrument to break the circles of poverty, especially in those neighbourhoods and those areas where the future is a word that is very badly associated with a dignified life and the common good. the rise in energy prices, the speculation in commodities, is not going in the right direction and europe must find a courageous and dignified response that goes beyond mere recommendations, because every single person counts, both those living inside and outside europe.
mr president, commissioner, last friday, two days before the fifth anniversary of the murder of daphne caruana galizia, the degiorgio brothers were sentenced to 40 years in prison each after confessing to the crime. an important step to ensure justice, but without forgetting that those who ordered the crime are still free. the climate of impunity and cover-up still prevailing in this case shows that not enough reforms have been carried out during these five years to improve the rule of law in malta. we cannot allow journalists, activists and political opponents in the european union to be harassed and threatened by the powerful in order to silence them and prevent them from participating in the democratic debate. daphne was a fighter and a hero. we owe it to him to have an anti-slapp law at european level that is as ambitious as possible and that prevents cases like yours from happening again. let's make it happen.
mr president, commissioner, this debate is taking place at a time when thousands of petrol stations in france are completely out of gas because of a strike which threatens to paralyse the country. and what it shows, again, is the enormous dependence on fuels. when there is no affordable fuel, our economies shrink and social tensions increase. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we should ask ourselves two questions. one: is europe ready to give up fossil fuels completely today? obviously not. and two: should europe develop a large-scale market for alternative fuels to supplement supply and, in the future, replace oil? of course i did. but that market is not created overnight and electrifying our mobile fleet is not either. that is why we must stop looking for blame and find solutions. we need investment, we need legal certainty and we need time. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must act with prudence or we shall be left on our own. we will be left alone and, what is worse, those we will be affecting, and in the first instance, will be our own citizens, and we should supposedly be concerned about them. moreover, those who would suffer the most from the same would be those with the least economic capacity, and that is not fair. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us act with prudence and we are sure to do well.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner schmit, before i begin, i would like to thank everyone involved in this report for their work. when i started working on it last june, we set three main goals: first, to protect workers; also to strengthen, of course, the welfare state; and third, to ensure that the green and digital transitions are socially just and leave no one behind. the covid-19 pandemic, the climate emergency, putin's war and the exponential rise in the cost of living call for us to put forward progressive policies that ensure a democratic, inclusive and socially just recovery. the future of europe depends on creating quality jobs and safeguarding social investment. unlike those who are committed to dismantling the welfare state and returning to draconian austerity policies, we social democrats are in favour of the larger contribution from those with greater economic capacity. fair and progressive taxation is the main tool to fight against inequality and poverty. strengthening the social shield is not an option but an obligation, and more so in times of crisis. and i am not the only one to say this: the international monetary fund itself was opposed a few days ago to widespread tax cuts and called on member states to implement inclusive and fair policies with a focus on the middle and working classes, who are currently in difficulty. policies such as those we have included in these guidelines and with which some groups seem to have some difficulties. and i am talking specifically about creating a social resilience package to ensure the funding of the erte, which have helped workers so much, and a social rescue mechanism for the most vulnerable. we have to keep moving. this has already been adopted in past resolutions of the european parliament and we cannot go backwards. we have to move on. i am also talking about activating minimum income schemes in all member states through a directive. and i'm also talking about ensuring universality in the case of health systems and quality care, which have been so necessary during the pandemic. no more working for free. europe must stand by its citizens, and above all by those of today, but also by those of tomorrow. that is why we will ensure that all those young people who undertake an internship receive a fair remuneration, have decent working conditions and access to the social security system. i would personally have liked to go one step further by banning unpaid internships, which i consider to be labour exploitation for our young people. but once again, the right has lacked... i don't know whether to say commitment or courage. and that is why we are also calling in these employment guidelines for up to 20 billion euros for the european child guarantee, in order to lift five million children out of poverty or social exclusion by 2030. putin has provoked a war in ukraine and we europeans are living the consequences of this war. in this situation, it is more necessary than ever to strengthen the social shield, to have internalized what equal opportunities mean. i therefore ask the other groups not for any commitment or courage but for a little common sense in supporting the report as it has come out of the committee on employment and social affairs.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i cannot agree more with the conclusion you have just drawn. we agree that in these employment guides we have taken into account the green and digital transitions and many other issues that directly or indirectly affect the labour market. or are you going to tell me, gentlemen on the right, that children who are at risk of exclusion and poverty are not because their fathers and mothers have precarious jobs and are therefore forced to have their children live in that situation? or will the gentlemen on the right also tell me that there are other proposals, among the many we have made in this report, which do not directly or indirectly affect the workers we are talking about? or are you also going to tell me that we're revising the employment guidelines every year? we haven't checked them since before covid-19. what are we talking about? we do not want the commission to take away powers from the member states. we have not said that at any point in this document. what is terrible is that the right is on the side of the most privileged, as it always has been, and not on the side of the most vulnerable, who are the ones we have to protect. others talk about the subsidy culture. i say we help the most vulnerable because they deserve the same opportunities as all citizens. and that is supported by the imf, the ecb, the oecd. so i see no error in the line we are taking to protect the workers, the working class and the most vulnerable. and i also don't see the error in all those progressive policies of helping those who need it most. i think you should reflect and see if perhaps those who are wrong are you, who always defend the most privileged.
mr president, commissioners, is it acceptable that, while the electricity bills paid by our citizens, selfemployed people, smes and businesses are multiplied by 100, 200 or 300, the big electricity companies should multiply their profits by three, four and ten? the answer is quite simple: no. is it acceptable that while citizens are paying for this crisis, there are companies that are benefiting from it? no, because then it's not a crisis. it is a crisis for the usual ones and the question is: should they pay once again for this crisis? the answer, of course, is no. is the proposal to tax profits fallen from the sky enough? i'm not sure. is that necessary? yeah, because they're profits dropped from the sky? i'm not sure. these are benefits that come out of the suffering of citizens, the self-employed, smes and companies, and which will fatten the profit accounts of companies that benefit from the crisis. then, so that the same people don't always pay, for once let those who benefit from this crisis pay.
mr president, at this point no one doubts that food, clothing and housing are more expensive because the price of energy has gone up. and there is no doubt that this is also produced by an electricity market model aggravated by war and the shortage of fossil fuels. we can continue to debate, we can continue to make headlines, but it is urgent to start doing, because inaction only proves your complicity with the oligopolies. look, in spain, while the energy oligopoly was making profits estimated in billions, each family, just the shopping basket, was getting 567 euros more a year. i mean, its benefits are out of our pockets because not enough is being done here and that creates a malaise that we see, for example, in the mobilizations today in france. however, this is avoidable. it would be enough to change the marginalist model, it would be enough to put the general interest first and promote control and public intervention, and it would be enough to consider energy as a right and not as a business.
mr. president, i have to ask you... europe is in deep crisis, with brutal recessions, industries crumbling, small businesses struggling to survive. the reason is clear, the war and the wrong response, namely the poorly designed sanctions policy. that's why the energy prices are unbearable today. the solution is to rethink sanctions, because energy supply is a physical issue, not an ideological one. we cannot risk europe's energy security, we cannot risk jobs. we must pursue a policy that can withstand the support of the people. this is the purpose of the national consultation on sanctions in hungary, for example. the eu is facing a growing crisis that can only be overcome with broad support from member states and society. it is therefore unacceptable that in this situation brussels is withholding 600 billion euros. now, all member states must receive their funds immediately, so that they can reach their citizens as quickly as possible.
mr president, putin’s armed forces have underwhelmed. but he retains a strong grip on energy supply, for now. he will try to weaponise the winter to weaken resolve and support for ukraine. the eu and member states must introduce a range of measures and supports to help households and businesses and protect citizens from the worsening energy price hikes. immediate actions of the energy crisis should not be at the detriment of the future needs of our energy system. yet the market should be for the benefit of society, not siphon the life from it. it is only right to apply a windfall charge to actually give that money back to citizens. to reduce energy bills for consumers in the longer term, the answer is clear: embrace the energy efficiency principle and get renovating the built environment. but for now, the windfall profits being made by producers and, above all, by traders of the energy system must be subjected to storm force taxes. these astronomical and immoral profits must be taxed as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the opportunity we have to call once again for the taxation of superprofits. however, the situation is far from encouraging. on the one hand, millions of citizens are facing extreme price increases in vital sectors such as energy and food; on the other hand, the insolent health of the large leading groups in the sector, which are enriching themselves outrageously, like their shareholders, on the same food and energy sectors. 50%, that is the increase in total's turnover in 2022. 50% is the increase in the salary of the ceo of total, patrick pouyanné, in 2022. however, zero is the amount paid by total for corporate tax in france since 2020. look in good conscience, you who have been elected by europeans, and ask yourselves whether we can allow such injustice to continue. it is urgent that this money, which is lying dormant in the pockets of shareholders, should be made available to the most vulnerable who are struggling to cope with this shock in prices which will last between five and ten years. it is a social issue, a choice of society. we must limit the systems of concentration of wealth and thus of impoverishment of the greatest number.
mr president, while the country responsible for 27% of global emissions - china - is planning new coal-fired power stations, you are still discussing how to transfer the sacrifices imposed by its globalist agenda to the europeans. their climate fanaticism is responsible for europe's dependence on third powers. the system you created to benefit renewables is the one that has brought about those benefits. socialist governments, such as spain's, get extraordinary revenues from vat, by squeezing out the middle and working classes. they ask everyone for sacrifices, but they're not willing to take any. they want to lower the climate bill, drastically reduce political spending across all institutions. they give back to households and businesses the vat which the states have extraordinarily collected, as well as the profits of the electricity companies. stop your plan to drown out businesses with new taxes, burdens, regulations and sanctions. they are so hypocritical that just yesterday new sanctions were being called for against european polluting companies. let's increase energy production using all known sources. stop speculative trading in co2 emission allowances and let us allow families to deduct the cost of mortgages for the purchase of their homes from their rent. if you're not capable of doing it, leave it. we are ready and willing.
mr president, commissioner, we are entering winter and again we have tens of millions of european citizens who do not know whether they will be able to pay their bills this winter and do not know whether they will have to give up either buying food or buying medicine, because, guess what? this inflation has put us in an absolutely impossible situation. oil became a prohibited commodity, sugar as well, bread as well, meat as well. and all this is because of the inaction of the european commission, which has not taken the measures it should have taken for a year. these measures led to inflation. 80% of inflation is due to or because of energy prices. and these measures, which were not taken in time, now come at a cost. talk about exceptional profits. well, for a year now, there's been exceptional profits, and the exceptional profits have translated into inflation. instead of shutting down the ability of all the energy companies to make exceptional profits every month for a year, you let them run and now we're all paying the price. stop the possibility of making exceptional profits by these companies, tax them properly and we may have a chance to cross and survive this winter.
mr president, mr commissioner, in the face of the terrible energy crisis, the inflation crisis, the difficulty of paying mortgages because of high interest rates or the supply crisis, there is already a tool to start dealing with them: the nextgenerationeu funds, which i know the commissioner knows very well. we are talking about 800 billion euros, a very high percentage of which is still to be spent and invested. i want to take this opportunity to encourage the commission to put all its resources into making sure that this money, this 800 billion euro, is spent quickly and efficiently, and to ensure that it reaches the real economy, households and businesses; and to do its monitoring work with the member states to ensure that the reforms that accompany this investment are the right reforms. not more tax hikes, but tax incentives and those measures that make our economy more competitive and help bring in that much-needed liquidity. commissioner, there is an instrument and it is called nextgenerationeu and i call on the commission to do its job and really get the funds spent quickly.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. at a time of crisis like the present, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating or eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to remove our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
in writing. right now, our policies should focus on families being able to pay their bills and not having to choose between turning on the heating and eating. the eu needs a permanent budgetary capacity to cope with crises, strong and effective social security networks and a permanent labour security instrument, such as sure, launched during the pandemic. part of the necessary funding could come from a tax on extraordinary profits of companies benefiting from the crisis, and from the implementation of the minimum tax rate for multinationals. furthermore, a thorough reform of energy markets is needed to reduce our dependence on russia and fossil fuels in general. the measures recently announced by the european commission are in the right direction, but they are not enough. the s&d group has a list of reforms and measures that would alleviate the suffering of citizens and rebalance the burden of the crisis. we expect the european commission and the member states to work with parliament on solutions. it is unacceptable that the commission should be presenting its legislative proposals through article 122 of the treaty, leaving this house out of the way.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, although economic crises and even military conflicts are lethal to humanity, they are always opportunities for public policies and for our european institutions. it is time to take care of our health, of the mental health of european citizens. the final report of the conference on the future of europe included the need for a long-term european mental health strategy. and in my group - the s&amp;d group - we have been calling for this for a long time: a strategy that includes mental health in all policies - education, environment, employment - and, of course, that ensures universal access to quality mental health services. a european strategy that includes not only recommendations to the member states but also legislation where legislation is possible, for example in the field of health and safety at work. this parliament has already asked for it: we need a directive on psychosocial risks at work, the recognition of certain mental disorders such as occupational diseases, the regulation of telecommunications work and the right to disconnect, and a directive on the application of artificial intelligence to the workplace. so we can and must do much more.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, mental health is the great forgotten public health policy throughout europe. it is the great forgetfulness that moves, moreover, in the incomprehension and stigma of the people who suffer from it, often between loneliness, sadness and isolation. crises reveal certain situations and this crisis has revealed the profound impact that mental health has on our citizens and the misunderstanding that they suffer. it is therefore time for mental health to stop being such a forgotten thing and that is why the european strategy for mental health is so important and so necessary. and that framework is a very important framework, very necessary, but one which requires the commitment of the states. it also requires more professionals, more resources, more prevention and more investment. because without more professionals, without more resources, without more prevention and without more investment, we cannot provide the mental health that our citizens need, we cannot provide the treatment and the support that they need. so, yes to this initiative. i hope it will come sooner rather than later and that it can be implemented throughout europe for the benefit of our citizens.
mr. chairman, ms. commissioner, mental health is a silent, growing pandemic that we cannot ignore. in europe, suicides are on the rise and mental health is deteriorating. in spain suicide is the leading cause of unnatural death, with 11 people taking their own lives each day and 220 attempting it. when a person says they want to kill themselves, it's not a wake-up call, it's a call for help. episodes that generate anxiety, stress or depression among younger people, such as bullying, sudden changes in habits as happened with covid-19 or social pressure, cause their mental health to be impaired. the shame of talking about what's affecting them, the fear of stigma, the fear that they won't believe you -- that can't happen. we need to prevent, we need to literate in mental health in all areas: family, education, health and work. let's make it mandatory for countries to prioritize mental health care. let us use european funds for this. let's commit to preventing mental disorders and the best therapies for patients. we call for a european strategy on mental health, because, remember, there is no health without mental health.
madam president, after the regrettable words of mr borrell justifying the policy of building walls in europe, with his fantasies of invasions, gardens and jungles, it is easier to understand the scandalous increase in the budget heading for immigration control. it is a paradox that, at a time when we are suffering the effects of climate change and the energy crisis, and we are still recovering from the pandemic, we see an increase in the number of games for the militarization of borders, while those for climate policies or health programs are being cut. we would certainly be better off if, instead of increasing expenditure on immigration control by 13%, these resources were used to strengthen public services, employment and decent reception in the places of arrival, to fight against climate change, to deploy a social shield against the energy crisis or to promote peace. let us hope that in these three weeks of work the final result will be more in line with real needs and avoid feeding the speeches of the far right.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 19 october 2022. (the sitting was suspended at 2.43 p.m.)
in accordance with rule 158 (2), tomorrow's sitting will be extended until 11 p.m. on a proposal from the president and in agreement with the political groups, following yesterday's amendments to the agenda. if no objections are raised, the amendment shall be deemed to be accepted.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. is there any objection? not at the moment. the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission work programme for 2023 (2022/2841 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that this debate is scheduled to include a round of speeches by the political groups and that, therefore, there will be no spontaneous speeches and no blue cards will be accepted.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, indeed, it is my pleasure to present to you the commission work programme for 2023, immediately following its adoption by the college literally a few minutes ago. let me begin by saying that the programme is a true testament to our commitment to build a union that stands firm and united in the face of a unique set of crises whose effects are being felt so acutely in the everyday lives of europeans. the work programme sets out a bold agenda, explaining how we intend to tackle the most pressing challenges, including the energy crisis. at the same time, it outlines how we want to double down on the long-term generational tasks, making our european union green, digital, fairer and more resilient. i would like to underline how much we appreciate the valuable cooperation with this house in preparing the 2023 commission work programme. we have engaged closely through our structured dialogues in the parliamentary committees and through our exchanges in the conference of presidents and the conference of committee chairs. i particularly appreciate the priorities outlined by these two bodies in the statement and the 2022 summary report respectively. honourable members, the 2023 commission work programme is unique in more ways than one. first and foremost, it was shaped following russia’s invasion of ukraine that brought the horrific reality of war back to europe. at the same time, this commission work programme is the first since the successful end of the conference on the future of europe. this inevitably means that the commission’s work will be guided by the need to support people and businesses through the testing times, while we will strengthen citizens’ engagement as a part of our policymaking. to underline this approach, i would like to underscore that four out of five new initiatives outlined in the commission work programme directly or indirectly follow up on the proposals made by the conference on the future of europe. i am also pleased to announce that several initiatives in the work programme come in response to proposals from this house, from article 225 resolutions adopted by this house. these include further action on asbestos removals, a common statute for european cross-border associations and action against the piracy of live online content. honourable members, for the year ahead, we are announcing 51 flagship initiatives grouped under 43 policy objectives or packages. before i touch on some of these key initiatives, it is worth noting the unique circumstances in which the 2023 commission work programme was drawn up. the terrible human suffering caused by russia’s illegal war in ukraine has been accompanied by social and economic turmoil. our response to the invasion has been swift, determined and united. the eu has already adopted over 180 measures hitting russia where it hurts while offering strong support to ukraine and its people. we have mobilised over eur 7 billion to strengthen ukraine’s economic, social and financial resilience and an additional eur 3.1 billion in military support under the european peace facility. we will not falter in our continued support for ukraine, even as russia continues to use energy as a weapon, causing hardship in europe and beyond. it is clear we cannot afford to take a ‘business as usual’ approach, while a united front is our only chance to successfully tackle the current challenges. honourable members, our work next year will be far-reaching and impactful. we are feeling first-hand the increasingly severe effects of climate change. our continent suffered severely from heatwaves, droughts, forest fires this summer. this has further strengthened our determination to implement the european green deal. we propose to create the european hydrogen bank to invest eur 3 billion into kick-starting a hydrogen market in the eu. we will also reform the eu electricity market to decouple electricity prices from the effects of gas prices, to ease the pressure on households and businesses. we will propose legislation to contribute to a more resilient and sustainable food system, and we will overhaul the eu’s animal welfare laws in response to both the conference on the future of europe and the european citizens’ initiative. we will propose a targeted revision of the legislation on the registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals, which is known by reach, to promote sustainable chemicals. and we will work on further greening of the freight transport. digital solutions will be key in making our economy more efficient and less resource intensive and without critical raw materials – very simple – no green and digital solution. so we will therefore present the european critical raw materials act with measures to boost europe’s strategic autonomy on the critical raw materials to help ensure an adequate and diversified supply while prioritising re-use and recycling. we will propose the common european mobility data space to boost the digitalisation of the mobility sector. and we will also continue to help businesses thrive in our single market with a patent licensing package that provides a stable regulatory environment and the revision of the late payments directive, which will help reduce burdens in particular for smes. the european year of skills will help businesses with the challenges of reskilling and upskilling their workforce. to strengthen our security in an increasingly multipolar world, we will adopt a space strategy for security and defence and update the eu maritime security strategy as well. we will continue to push our ambitious trade agenda to come forward with a new agenda for latin america and the caribbean. and to further promote our european way of life, we will continue to focus on the key areas of education, health, migration and security. we will adopt a comprehensive approach to mental health and other key initiatives to emerge from the conference on the future of europe, which i particularly appreciate having been the chair of the group on health and i particularly appreciated because i saw personally how important this is for our young people, for our young generation. we will also put forward a prevention package with initiatives on smoke free environments and vaccine preventable cancers, a new cybersecurity skills academy and proposal on the digitalisation of travel documents. we will continue to push for european democracy, including with the defence of democracy package to bolster democratic resilience from within and defend our democratic systems from outside interests. and we will present a proposal for the european disability card. honourable members, to close, let me underline that good policymaking is clearly a team effort. faced with a unique set of crises this year, our union has shown once again just how much it can achieve when it is united. as we enter the final two years of this mandate, it is all the more important to have constructive negotiations in good faith on the key pieces of legislation which will shape our shared future. thank you very much for the great cooperation so far. i am very much looking forward to your interventions and i am ready to answer your questions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me first express my thanks on behalf of the epp group for the very good cooperation with the commission on the programme from last year. and i think that it is important, especially in this chamber, to remind all of us that this is the third year of the multiannual financial framework (mff) – i mean, 23 – but this is our fourth year of this term. so the end of the term is coming. and the question is, how will we be judged? how will we be evaluated? how did we behave facing this completely new situation? i mean, ‘we’ as in parliament, preparing legislation, and you the commission. i think how well you are prepared to adapt to the new situation is very important. so when we look at the european commission programme, we can see, of course, the ongoing processes, the pending elements which we will have to finalize, and we will have the new initiatives which are proposed by the commission. but there is also the part which is not written in the programme which is the question of the capacity to adapt to completely new, unexpected situations. this is probably next year’s activity. so we will be, as you will be, evaluated for the response to completely unexpected situations concerning the war, climate change, food crises, etc. so that’s why we have to take care of everything that can happen – not only everything that is planned but all that can happen. so that’s why we as the epp would like to concentrate everything on the jobs, especially the jobs for citizens, farmers, smes, businesses. this is also about the functioning of european energy markets. this is also the question of protecting eu citizens from outside threats. so i think this is very important. and the question of how to fight foreign interferences and the attack against democratic values and our way of life. this is for us two basic elements, because when we speak about the social market economy, we are speaking about people. so we have to take care of their life. and we have to take care of the programmes but, of course, take care not to create victims of the programmes. we cannot have people falling victim to our ambitions. we have to be very rational and very clear. let me finish, mr commissioner, by expressing that i found in your documents, for the first time, the expression that you are not ruling out a revision of the mff. this is the first time we have heard this from the commission. up to now, it has been only a ‘review’ or even an ‘ambitious review’. but this is the first time i have read about the possibility of revision. i can keep your promise and we will see how it will happen.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, really striking to see how much interest a debate on the commission work programme for 2023 elicits here in this house. i’d like to spend my two and a half minutes talking to my friends of the european people’s party, arguably the biggest group in this parliament. let me just tell you a story. forty years ago, the european car industry convinced the european union not to regulate them. they promised: ‘we are going to reduce emissions, improve our product and all the rest of it. trust us. don’t regulate us’. and they succeeded. now, when they failed to deliver, the european union started regulating them and putting them emission targets. and then they fought tooth and nail against really ambitious targets. when that failed, then they started fighting to make sure that the measurements – the way we would measure the emissions – would be totally removed from reality. they succeeded. but of course, when the european union reconsidered and started measuring real emissions, then they started cheating. what is the net result of that? well, the world champions of the electric cars are tesla (us), build your dreams (chinese). that is the net result of such a strategy. and the european people’s party was aiding and abetting the strategy of the european car industry, not least angela merkel, who even destroyed a trilogue deal just to weaken the objectives. now the epp does it again, targeting the reach regulation. and of course in the name of moratorium, one in, one out, because all this, you know, is a burden on our companies. a burden? are you serious? we are talking about keeping this planet liveable for humanity. you call that a burden or the hobbyhorse of the greens? it is about life and death – right? – and also about leadership, industrial leadership. and your calls have been partly heard. maroš, i regret to say that, because indeed the european commission delayed by three quarters the revision of the landmark chemicals regulation of the european union, whereas actually this text is almost ripe. don’t do this. i mean, don’t listen to the, not the sirens, but the cries of the european people’s party. by the way – when i have to judge as to their presence – they do not carry a lot of weight. ignore them. i mean, yes, i know you put that on the fourth quarter, but there’s no legal obligation for the commission not to be earlier if you already do it. and so at least this parliament will be able to adopt it in the first reading before the end of the term.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the commission's guidelines for 2023. on many crucial issues, on energy, on the economy, on health, my colleagues have already spoken with talent. i will speak about something else, an absolute priority which is mentioned only in passing in a miserable paragraph of your text. this year, frontex, the european union's external border surveillance agency, has recorded a 70% increase in irregular entries between january and september compared to the same period in 2021. in the face of this surge in migration, your only response is to dismiss the director of frontex - who, i remind you, was french - and to shamefully refuse to validate his accounts today and to impose even more migrants on the member states through the pact on asylum and immigration. i can already see our opponents laughing and accusing us of being obsessive. but among these illegal aliens, my dear colleagues, are the terrorists of the bataclan. there are those in brussels, there are those in nice, there are those in london, there are those in berlin. among these illegal aliens are the killers of lola, 12, who was raped, strangled, mutilated and cut to pieces last friday in paris. for you, for the commission, these migrants may be merely subjects of abstract law or a simple statistical problem. but for the parents of lola, who could have been our daughter, it's a broken life for which you are collectively responsible. with all these illegal aliens coming in, how many would-be killers? how many future victims? those who mock this subject are hateful, unworthy, irresponsible. they have the blood of the dead on their conscience. you have to make it your priority. you must put it on your action programme as a matter of urgency. do not wait any longer, wake up, act!
on behalf of the ecr group. it is a tragedy that we do not know how to react with an amendment, an amendment in general. we have half the continent threatened by a real war, we have part of the continent on fire, we have the other half of the continent terrified by an impending crisis like none has ever been known, afraid of hunger, afraid of closures, afraid of unemployment. and we're still on the same path, with this overdose of ideology, of sustainability, of the same plans we had before, when there was nothing we're talking about. ukraine's stance: in ukraine we are on the right side of history, but france and germany are not, who have been persistently delaying everything that is a real defense of ukraine, as it should have been done. and, as for vaccines, what about vaccines? are we going to have clarity on vaccines at some point here in this parliament, on what has happened with vaccines, or are we going to have absolute silence here, with no transparency at all? we are seeing that this is not changing: we are still obsessed with plans for social engineering; we are with plans for radical ecology, which has this whole house trapped and which takes no account at all of the interests of the workers. all the fishermen in the basque, galician and andalusian provinces have just had their fishing boats removed for reasons that are not relevant to this matter. in these times of food alarm, they're doing things like that. it's all ideology.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for your intervention and thank you for your strong vocal commitment to the fully-functioning schengen area and the free movement. we have a common goal, a stronger and resilient schengen area without internal border controls. many of you have raised the importance of now welcoming croatia, romania, bulgaria into schengen, and i fully agree. mr president, any legislation is only as good as its effective implementation. and you have raised this many of you. it is not in line with the schengen acquis to maintain internal border controls for years if there are no new threats. the court of justice made it clear, internal borders controls are a temporary exceptional measure and should be interpreted strictly. as i mentioned, i have entrusted our new schengen coordinator to work with the concerned member states on how they now must align with the court judgment. depending on this outcome, the commission may come up with an opinion on necessity and proportionality, and to do that swiftly. and i hear the clear voice from you in the european parliament. can i also say that there is a clear link with the strengthening of police cooperation and the renewal of the schengen borders code to make sure that member states have access to better tools to protect citizens. internal border controls are not the best use of resources. we need to reinforce the security of the schengen area. we need to reinforce the scrutiny of the schengen area to ensure the proper functioning. this is also part of making schengen resilient and strong. thank you very much for the debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, madam commissioner, the council remains committed to upholding the integrity of the schengen area. as commissioner johansson said, at the home affairs council last week, we held an exchange of views on the overall state of the schengen area and indeed the member states committed to implementing a series of recommendations which would reduce the need to reintroduce internal border controls. there is also a strong consensus around the fact that internal border controls are exceptional measures and must obey to the principles of proportionality and necessity. respecting these principles is key to the protection of schengen and is fully in line with the recent ruling of the court of justice of the european union. let me also underline once more the importance of the proposed amendment to the schengen borders code, which contains several elements that will equip us to deal more efficiently with the current challenges at our borders. we look forward, therefore, to engaging with this parliament to negotiate the revised schengen borders code and to continuing our open, constructive discussion on this important topic.
the debate on this item is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. when bulgaria and romania joined the eu on 1 january 2007, they still needed to make progress in areas such as judicial reform, corruption and (in bulgaria's case) the fight against organised crime. for some member states, the monitoring mechanism applicable to bulgaria and romania has been a sufficient excuse to prevent these countries from joining the schengen area. i consider that all the necessary conditions for the full application of the schengen acquis were already fulfilled in bulgaria and romania in 2011 and therefore do not consider the exclusion of bulgaria and romania from the schengen visa area to be justified. the council should do all that is necessary to adopt by the end of 2022 a decision on the full application of the provisions of the schengen acquis to the republic of bulgaria and romania, in order to ensure the abolition of checks on persons at all internal borders in both member states at the beginning of 2023.
the next item is the debate on:- the question to be answered orally, tabled by mr pascal canfin, ms lídia pereira, mr javi lópez, mr nils torvalds, mr pär holmgren, ms catherine griset, mr alexandr vondra, mr petros kokkalis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to the council, on the un climate change conference (cop 27) 2022 in sharm el sheikh, egypt (o-000041/2022 - b9-0027/22) (2022/2673rsp) and- the question to be answered orally, tabled by mr pascal canfin, ms lídia pereira, mr javi lópez, mr nils torvalds, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to the commission, on the un climate change conference (cop 27) 2022 in sharm el sheikh, egypt (o-000042/2022 - b2-0028/2020) (2022/2673rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, let me begin by thanking the european parliament for the interest it takes on the issue of climate change, and the forthcoming cop 27 in particular. in light of the climate crisis, of the increasing intensity and frequency of extreme weather events linked to the human-caused climate change and of the complex political and economic framework arising from the war of aggression by russian federation against ukraine, the eu must keep a leading role in the fight against climate change. it is in that spirit that the eu is effectively preparing for cop 27, which will dedicate a substantial part of its agenda to adaption, loss and damage and climate finance as they are key for the hosting african continent. in that regard, the eu looks forward to working alongside other parties to implement the results of cop 26, in view of keeping a balance between mitigation, adaptation and climate finance. we will continue to support and constructively engage in the two-year glasgow-sharm el sheikh work programme on the global goal on adaptation. in accordance with the process set out at cop 27, the eu will contribute to the optimisation of the santiago network for averting, minimising and addressing loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change. i understand that the parliament is particularly interested in the action that the council has been taking to ensure that significant progress is made during cop 27. as regards nationally determined contributions, the council reiterates ahead of the climate conference in sharm el sheikh that international engagement through strong, rule-based multilateralism is crucial for achieving successful results in addressing climate change. in line with the eu position expressed at the previous cops, the council currently prepares an ambition proposition in view of cop 27, which should be agreed by the ministers at the environment council on 24 october. all united nations climate change parties have been urged to revisit and strengthen by the end of 2022 their nationally determined contributions as necessary to align them with the paris agreement goals. similarly, in glasgow, parties were asked to present or update their long-term low greenhouse gas emissions development strategies towards reaching net zero emissions by 2050. ambitions and actions are essential in this critical decade to ensure the credibility of the implementation of the paris agreement and to reach climate neutrality in a sustainable way. therefore, the council encouraged all parties to accompany their nationally determined contribution with robust and solid domestic policy frameworks and actions to increase their short- and long-term ambitions and to enhance climate action, including the use of domestic carbon prices. as you know, the negotiation between our institutions on the legislative proposal of the fit for 55 package are ongoing, and it is difficult to prejudge the outcome at that stage. nonetheless it is important to note that on that ambition we have mutually confirmed our agreed goal of at least 55% emission reduction by 2030. i can assure that the czech presidency is doing its utmost to make as much progress as possible on all the fit for 55 files concerned. let me now focus briefly on climate finance. making all financial flows consistent with the pathway towards 1.5 degrees celsius goal and climate resilience development is essential to the implementation of the paris agreement and for the shift to a climate-neutral, adaptive, resilient, global economy and society. in this context, we welcome the forthcoming debate at cop 27 and, in this context, the eu calls on all countries to scale-up their efforts to mobilise finance from all resources to support climate action and to mainstream climate actions in all financial flows. we also renew our strong commitment to continue scaling up our international climate finance towards reaching the goal of mobilising at least usd 100 billion per year as soon as possible and/or to 2025. in addition, we are looking forward to cooperating with other parties toward implementing the glasgow climate pact’s goal to collectively at least double the provisioning of climate finance for adaption to developing countries from 2011 levels by 2025. we also welcome the deliberation of the new collective qualified goal on climate finance, taking place until 2024 and reaffirms the eu continued constructive engagement in these deliberations. mr president, honourable members. madam commissioner, i’m sorry i will not be able to stay during an entire debate, neither for the next point that is mainly about russia which was added to the agenda yesterday. it was a long day and i have to catch my plane to prague later on today. so sorry for that, but my colleagues will address the things.
member of the commission. – mr president, deputy prime minister, honourable members, thank you for this important debate as we look ahead to the upcoming cop 27 in sharm el-sheikh, i will take this debate on behalf of vice-president timmermans. the cop 27 conclusions of the eu council of ministers planned for 24 october will reconfirm the eu’s commitment towards the glasgow climate pact and to keeping the 1.5 degree goal within reach. we have enshrined our commitments into the eu climate law and are pursuing their implementation. the eu is ready to demonstrate how we are staying the course in sharm. we have been reassuring our partners that the eu’s energy security will not be achieved to the detriment of climate action. with our ‘fit for 55’ package and repowereu, we are fully committed towards delivery and implementation of our ndc and to climate neutrality by 2050. this is a continuous sign of the eu’s leadership in addressing the climate crisis. cop 27, as every cop, is also a moment for accountability on climate mitigation. the world needs more and a faster transition, not less. for food security, energy security, climate security, geopolitical security, sharm el-sheikh must reaffirm the demand for the implementation of nationally determined contributions and long-term strategies, as well as for the parties to revisit the targets in their ndcs to accelerate global efforts to maintain the 1.5 degree goal within reach. the cop must also adopt a mitigation work programme to cut emissions in this critical decade, to implement what we agreed in glasgow on phasing out fossil fuel subsidies, phasing down coal, reducing methane emission and aligning our indices with the 1.5 degree goal. the eu and its 27 member states are the largest contributor to the international public climate finance, contributing over eur 23.5 billion in 2020. we have contributed our fair share to the collective usd 100 billion by 2020 goal and will continue to do so. but we also recognise that further work is needed from now until 2025 to fulfil the commitments made by developed countries. it is therefore important that other developed countries continue to increase their contributions and deliver on their commitments. but public finance alone cannot deliver the trillions of dollars of investment required annually for climate finance. while it plays an important role in support for adaptation and support for the most vulnerable countries and communities, the scale of investments needed requires action by all countries to mobilise private investment and shift finance flows towards the low-emission climate resilient development. that means especially stronger engagement of the private sector. to do so, we need to align all financial flows with the paris agreement long-term goals. the smartest and the most efficient thing we can do is to put a price to carbon and stop subsidising it. avoiding and reducing emissions while increasing our resilience to climate change needs to be mainstreamed into every investment decision, domestically and globally, as well as into national budgets and the development finance system. in recent years, the eu and its member states have launched policy initiatives to make finance flows consistent with low ghg emissions and climate resilient development. cooperation is the key lever and it can ensure peer learning. developing countries should be supported in implementing initiatives specifically aimed at making finance consistent with climate objectives. on climate adaptation, we see three building blocks for an outcome in sharm el-sheikh. encouraging the development of more national adaptation plans in developing countries – these plans are the foundation tools to inform action at national level and are catalysts for increasing ambition and attracting finance. second, in forming the global stocktake in 2023, in reviewing overall progress made on adaptation through general recommendations on insights acquired this far. and third, identifying key issues and interlinkages with other environmental agreements such as the biodiversity convention and the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction. honourable members, with our domestic experience in implementing the eu green deal and external policy instruments and dialogues, we are in a position to help our partners to advance their transition to a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. we cement that position and offer our joint strong support to the egyptian cop 27 presidency for a successful outcome in sharm.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we face many challenges at the moment, but climate change is still the biggest problem in the long term. and we have to face climate change and fight it, along with all the other difficulties. of course, this is only possible internationally. that's why this cop is so important. and two things stand out. first, aid to africa and other least developed countries. i would ask the council and the commission to look very closely at the mandates of parliament in ehs and cbam. we have very specific demands on how we can help here, and perhaps this should be included in the respective trilogues before the cop. then ambition . i would like to thank the czech presidency for giving priority to three reports and for the fact that we may have reached agreement on them before mr elche. and i think we should be proud of that. we should not be lying and make it seem - as some have suggested - that we as europeans are the problem if the international target of 1.5 degrees is not met. if we meet our targets - and with what the european parliament is asking for, we will exceed them - then by 2030, even if the americans meet their targets - which is not so certain - we will have 2.5 times less per capita emissions than the americans. i think it is right to be proud of that and to remind the council of the additional ambition that parliament brings, rather than to cast its light beneath its own. so we go with optimism and conviction to sharm el-sheikh.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the international community is meeting again to address climate change. we do it at cop27, in egypt, and we do it when there continues to be a big crack, a big gap, a big distance between our rhetorical aspirations and the actions, the facts that we commit to. in fact, this happens when we are about to reach the point of no return. meanwhile, extreme weather events are multiplying: droughts, floods or heat waves. the european parliament, in an agreed resolution, sends three messages on the important work to be done in sharm el-sheikh. first, to increase ambition in terms of mitigation: to decarbonise our economies. we're going into that conversation with the green deal on the table and, furthermore, having lived in our own flesh what dependence on fossil fuels means. today, decarbonizing is not just climate action, it's also minimizing the power and strength of some of the autocracies that put a rules-based world on the line. secondly, we need big investments in adaptation, because climate change is an absolute reality and because we know that those investments are economically efficient, they reduce the possibility of disasters in the future and they are socially just, because then disasters always end up affecting the most vulnerable and developing countries. thirdly, to continue the discussion that started in glasgow, which is the discussion on loss and damage, by putting in place a real financial mechanism for developing countries. climate finance is certainly a big unfinished business, because we have consistently failed to deliver on all the commitments that have been made. we therefore call for europe, with the european green deal at its head, to be able to lead a global conversation that addresses, from the standpoint of justice, science, responsibility and solidarity, the greatest threat facing humanity, because our way of life depends on it.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner johansson, minister, ever since parliament handled the climate law, we have been trying to raise the ambition. everybody hasn't been on board, but we have been persistent, and we will be in the future also. it doesn't require some sort of genius to understand that losses and damages will be the main topic during the conference. and sad to say, we have more losses and damages in the world for the moment being than probably for the last ten years before. you just need to go to the gulf of finland and look at the amount of gas being flared by the russians just some kilometres away from the finnish border. so we have a lot of things to do and take care of. yesterday, we sat down with a young lady from kenya, elisabeth wathuti, and heard about her version, how her world looks. and the conclusion is very simple: there is a lot of work to be done in sharm and a lot of work to be done afterwards.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, in this context of dramatic economic, energy and food crises, we are seeing the commission and this parliament continue with the same, the same litany, as if nothing had happened. here we continue on the mystical path of ecological transition. the greener we are, the more radically green we are, the better off we will be and the better off the world will be. it's radically false. you are asking the european people, the european nations, to make sacrifices that are not at all in keeping with the results that are going to be achieved. we're going to have a food drama in europe very soon. we are in an energy crisis of terror and you continue as if nothing happened and all you announce are punishments, sanctions, fines and repression for companies, for individuals. and it's all repression and lack of freedom. you think that social engineering is going to solve something, and all you're doing is condemning us.
mr president, commissioner, just as we do not shy away from criticism when things are not done well, we must show what is working: the temporary protection directive is working, the financial effort to support refugees and host countries is sustained and substantial, and solidarity is real. we know that this front, that of concrete solidarity with the ukrainians, is also decisive if russian aggression is to be defeated and if the european union is to make its unity visibly visible against the aggressor. however, we must be aware that, in the midst of this humanitarian crisis, conventional migration flows continue to increase. the figures for 2022 are reminiscent of 2016, when the european union was experiencing the biggest migration crisis in its history, triggered by the conflict in syria. from january to august there has been a 75% increase in irregular entries compared to last year. we are entering a situation which may soon become critical. we need to offer a european solution to restore confidence between member states and to regain the citizens' confidence in our ability to manage migration as a union. we can't afford any more extensions. the next crisis may be just around the corner, if it's not already knocking on the door.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the establishment of a comprehensive framework for missing children and vulnerable missing persons (2022/2884 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i know my colleague vice-president dubravka šuica would very much have liked to be here. we work very closely together to protect children. each year, thousands of children are reported missing in the european union, run away from home, are abducted by a parent or a stranger, or fall victim to violence, abuse and exploitation. also, unaccompanied migrant children are trafficked, lost or injured or even worse. next month, missing children europe will turn 20. twenty years of protection in action. its european hotline for missing children, 116 000, operates in 32 countries. it is a free and 24/7 service. any child, friend, family member or teacher can call for immediate help. the eu supports it with funding. we must all work together in the european union – police and helplines, child protection services, judges, civil society organisations – our whole society. today, member states’ authorities are finding missing people using the schengen information system for law enforcement information exchange. last year, the schengen information system contained more than 150 000 alerts on missing persons, and 7 500 schengen information hits helped to find missing persons and bring them to safety. that’s much more than the year before. from next month on, the schengen information system will do an even better job, when its revised system will be fully operational. better use of biometrics will make it easier to identify missing persons, and alerts will clarify whether the missing person needs protection, whether they are victims of trafficking, domestic or gender—based violence, or have run away from home. it will also be possible to enter alerts on children at risk of abduction. what will also improve the search for missing children is the update i have proposed to the prüm framework for police information exchange, allowing the use of prüm exchange to search for missing persons using biometric samples, dna, fingerprints and facial images to check for hits in other member states’ databases. we are looking forward to the negotiations between the co-legislators. we are also cooperating with law enforcement authorities in third countries to find missing persons. close and fast cooperation is now possible with authorities from key partner countries, to follow the digital trail left by an abductor, thanks to the agreement of the second additional protocol to the budapest convention. the second additional protocol is now with you for endorsement, and i call on you to enable its swift ratification so the authorities can protect children from further harm. to help missing children and adults, we need to work across borders and across sectors. anti-trafficking, child sexual abuse, or the protection of children in migration: effective law enforcement cooperation can only be as effective as the legislation it is built on. we put forward our proposal to prevent and combat child sexual abuse online. detection of online child sexual abuse helped rescue victims in all eu member states. the eu already has a solid framework to protect trafficked children, but in december, i will propose a revision of the anti-trafficking directive which will further strengthen our fight against child trafficking. vulnerable migrants and especially migrant children are at risk of going missing. more than 18 000 refugee children have disappeared from asylum seeker centres in europe between 2018 and 2020. one of the reasons is slow family reunification procedures. children waiting for years for family reunification often decide to stop waiting and take the dangerous route to their family. as part of the new pact on migration and asylum, we proposed to shorten and improve dublin family reunification processes. unaccompanied minors from ukraine also need our specific attention and protection. around 30 000 unaccompanied minors arrived from ukraine to the eu. unaccompanied and separate children need to be registered as soon as possible and referred to the child protection authorities to avoid disappearance or trafficking. our eu child rights strategy says missing children are a child protection issue. cooperation and coordination among authorities is key. it’s also a child rights issue. every single child has the right to be helped. the right to be rescued. the right to be found. every child must be traced as early as possible. every missing child deserves an individual approach. the best interest of the child must be the primary consideration. we must protect and empower children to keep them from harm when they go missing and leave no stone unturned to find them. let’s work together on this important mission.
in a plenary session so full of extremely sensitive issues, this european parliament is once again dealing with the rights of children and in particular with the problem of missing children. it's creepy. the numbers are really overwhelming. the only known record - a 2013 report - indicates that at least 250 000 reported children are missing in the european union and are effectively calling for coordinated action, meeting points and police and judicial cooperation. all the proposals you can put on the table will be supported by this european parliament, which shows its greatest solidarity when it comes to vulnerable unaccompanied minors. you have shown in these figures, which are also quite shocking, that the disappearances are recorded in conflicts which are taking place on our own borders and which therefore affect all the member states. some 30 000 unaccompanied minors have entered from ukraine, therefore calling for attention to be paid to their vulnerability as victims of violence, abuse and exploitation at work or in sexual exploitation or human trafficking networks. so there's not a second to lose. commissioner johansson, you have our full support for all the measures you can take for this european register of missing persons and, in particular, of missing children.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, every year 300 000 people are reported missing in the european union. our goal, joining organizations like missing children and amber alert, is to improve the response of authorities to this phenomenon, which is particularly dangerous for children. the risk of serious violations of rights or of endangering the integrity of missing persons increases the longer we wait to clarify what has happened. that's why immediate investigation is key. now, law enforcement authorities intervene at an early stage when a disappearance is linked to a crime. but if that does not happen, the risk remains. the amber alert europe foundation addresses this gap in its proposal for a common european approach to improve the prevention and investigation of disappearances. using this knowledge, we propose to enrich risk analysis, consider more data and better coordinate the services that can provide them. so we'll be able to evaluate more and more new factors and prioritize better. this cooperation should be intensified in cases of disappearance of minors and in cases occurring in cross-border areas.
madam president, madam commissioner, this debate reveals a reality that is often kept quiet. the facts, the figures, have already been given here. and while we probably don't have the most accurate data, this reality is an overwhelming reality. it is true that behind these disappearances there can be different causes: mental health problems, voluntary disappearances, accidents... but that is not usually the case with teenagers and children. in a union without frontiers, very close police cooperation, the help of citizens and also the incorporation of identification and information exchange technologies into police work are needed, which are effective and absolutely essential tools. in this respect, it is not acceptable, for example, that an interoperable alert system for missing children has not been completed. but rather than singling out or singling out anyone, it is essential that this approach at european level, in the face of this challenge to our security and the rights of minors, prioritises capacity building in those member states that may have the most difficulties, the greatest workload or are the most lagging behind in cooperation procedures. the european agencies, both europol and cepol, should have a very special role in this strategy of training the forces and law enforcement agencies of all the member states. the scale of the problem shows that it is not just a national problem, especially as the increase in migration and refugee flows into the union increases the vulnerabilities and risks of people, whether adults or children, who may end up missing and exploited.
madam president, after eight months of war, the effects of the conflict are being felt all over the world: skyrocketing energy and food prices. we are repeating today that the best solution to curbing inflation is a firm commitment to peace and to our energy and food sovereignty. the council must push forward what is already a consensus: to put a cap on all gas, including that imported from saudi arabia or the united states, to end the benefits that have fallen from the sky, to reform the energy market and to accelerate the abandonment of fossil fuels. this war will be won on the battlefield. i was asked yesterday whether mr borrell was speaking in his personal capacity or on behalf of the commission, and i did not know what to answer. you tell me. if they're just on the lips of the head of european diplomacy, he should leave immediately. and if they are speaking on behalf of the whole commission, what are they doing? where does this lead? stop playing warlords. be firm, but step up the diplomatic work. call for a ceasefire, push for a negotiating table to end a conflict that is causing thousands of deaths, millions of displaced people and is aggravating the suffering of so many people who will not be able to pay the electricity bill. from one end of europe to the other, suffering can become unbearable. what are you waiting for?
madam president, mr vice president, mr minister, this is like a small czechoslovakia. but i think the czech presidency is doing well, that we are doing good publicity here. of course, the agenda is dominated by ukraine and the energy crisis. i have two points about the upcoming council: firstly, iran. i think we need to talk about iran, whether it's a formal item on the agenda or informally. not only because this country is being rocked by the biggest public protests in years, about women's equality and human equality, but also because iran has started supplying weapons to russia against ukraine. and that's something we can't keep quiet about, that we have to respond to. if we have been able to be tough and principled with russia, we must be just as tough and principled with iran. the second point i would like to make is that we should put aside the issue of the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe. i don't think this is the time to be digging around in the rules and changing them. we have enough other jobs, we have enough other problems. let's move this to the future.
madam president, we must increase energy self-sufficiency, stand up to putin and help ukraine. it must remain so, firmly so, but i would like to ask you a question today: are we doing everything we can in europe to curb the economic and energy crisis? citizens don't see it that way, they can't do any more, they're using all their savings to help their families. companies and their workers live with water up to their necks because of exorbitant prices that ruin them. think of your citizens. think of european funds, demand transparency, control that they reach the real economy, something that does not happen today. think of countries like spain: while the spanish people are looking in their pockets to pay for their shopping basket, their home mortgage, their electricity bill, their government is collecting more taxes than ever and maintaining the most expensive government structure of democracy. i call for urgency and unity in action, an energy-strong, connected and integrated europe, and for demanding that governments live up to and pay back to their citizens the money they collect in excess from inflation.
mr. president, you're behaving like a bully in the schoolyard. for years, they've been scaring kids, but today there's a generation that's decided to stand up to them. after listening to the debate, it is again shown that no one in europe receives more insults, hatred and violence than what you call the extreme right. but they're not scary anymore, they're embarrassing. if you want a steady job, far right. if you respect your parents and demand the right to educate your children: far right. if you don't want to live in a 100-square-foot apartment, then the far right. if you love your country: far right. if you try to live your christian faith in a coherent way: far right. if you think that woke feminism is ridiculous, that it violates biological laws, then it's far-right. if you want to walk safely through the streets of your city: far right. if you know that with windmills and solar panels alone we will not maintain the dignity of europe: extreme right. if you don't want the millionaire elites to decide for you and you want the people to decide: far right. anyone who defies you should be expelled from the public square, but this is over. it's not gonna be like that anymore, because we're gonna win all over europe.
mr president, mr buxade, you have made it easier for me to speak because i was just about to start this campaign by the far right in spain. if you step out of the marked path of single thought, you will be anything, but also a fagot. and it goes on and on. if you decide to speak well of our history: facha. if you think spain is stronger united, you're right. if you think the victims of terrorism deserve respect, you're right. if you think of something as logical as a man is a man and a woman is a woman: facha. you defend life and family: facha. this is one of the campaigns, of the nice campaigns, of the extreme right in spain. a campaign that takes your family, your grandparents, your children, your sexual identity, even your mother. the far right plays distorting irony to get their approval, but they oppose lgbtq laws, sex education, childhood laws, democratic memory or public services that the most vulnerable need. let us be clear: racism is not normal, classism, xenophobia and sexism are not normal, and yes, indeed, fascism is not normal because it has generated and continues to generate victims.
mr president, commissioner, in italy we are looking at how the far right will govern with the invaluable support of berlusconi's party, a member of the epp. in spain, the popular party again, ppe opens the doors of regional governments to vox, a party which does not condemn francoism, which is anti-european and an ally of putin and which preaches a xenophobic and misogynist ideology. and in the face of this whitewashing of fascism, we hear nothing but the silence of the epp, but when the extreme right really wins is when those who call themselves democrats adopt their language and their frame of mind. and this is happening even within the commission itself. it is unacceptable that vice-president borrell should speak of the west as a garden and the rest of the world as a jungle which seems to need to be civilized. a metaphor that gives off his intolerable supremacism. combating this phenomenon is a collective cause that challenges all democrats and that forces us to respond with a bold proposal based on inclusion, equality and the common good.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, thank you, mr murphy, for presenting the 2021 annual report. we are certainly concerned that the court of auditors estimates the error rate at 3%, although the commission puts it at 1.9%. but beyond the percentage, what i do think is important and necessary is to identify specific errors so that we can solve the problems that cause them. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. spain was the first and only country to receive a payment in 2021 following the favourable assessment of the commission, because all milestones had been satisfactorily met, and this has been confirmed by the commission. being first in class sometimes means taking on more scrutiny and control, but it also serves to allow us to anticipate the challenges that may come in the future. although spain has fulfilled the commitments, it may be that other countries do not meet all the milestones and we will have to see how we act in those cases. the good cooperation of all will undoubtedly improve the management of the european budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would certainly like to take this opportunity to reiterate my support for the process of enlargement of the european union to the western balkans without reservations. i really welcome the candidate status that has been granted to bosnia and herzegovina. but i did want to make a point which has not been made in this debate so far, and it is important: we cannot dissociate the enlargement process from the process of deepening the european union. we cannot go to a union of thirty, thirty-two, thirty-five states and continue to decide sanctions, foreign policy, by unanimity. let us therefore bear in mind that these are two processes that must go hand in hand: enlargement - 'widening the space of european democracy' - but also, at the same time, deepening european democracy in terms of its functioning, its legitimacy and its effectiveness.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, madam commissioner, it is crucial that the european union has ambitious european legislation to tackle gender-based violence, one of the main human rights violations on the planet, which affects as many as one in three women. europe must be a world leader in the fight against this scourge. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to provide the union with a directive on violence against women, which would establish minimum standards common to all member states. but on the other hand, i have to tell you that it's not enough. the commission is aware that a report was adopted here in this house calling for the inclusion of gender-based violence in article 83 of the treaties, which would allow us to build a much more ambitious legislative proposal than the one you have put forward. we know there are reservations. we know the context is not easy. but i am very much afraid that when we talk about women's rights, these reservations will always exist and the context will never be the right one. so it is time to join forces, to be politically courageous. let us work together for a new directive that makes history, but above all, that saves lives.
madam president, madam commissioner, we have spoken this morning about the whitewashing of the anti-european far right and i think it is appropriate to begin by saying that the origin of this debate is a proposal by the id group to talk about violence against women, without mentioning that it is gender-based violence, that is, without making it clear that it is women who suffer it and men who practice it, without referring to the istanbul convention or the commission's proposal for a directive. fortunately, other groups have stepped in to stop anti-feminists from using women victims of violence to instill their eccentricities. they say they care about women, but who are they kidding? do they think we're stupid? we are killed because we are women, but the far right says that violence has no gender, that it is gender ideology that causes violence and that men are persecuted by feminists. they are filled with calls for sanctions for the aggressors, but only if they are foreigners, because, in their particular fiction, those aggressors cannot be husbands, fathers, rich white men, spanish nationals. those, if they kill, it's only out of love or self-defense. they say they're with women, but only if they're the queens of the home and conform to their stereotypes. they don't fight for women, but only for their women. they sit in this house to oppose the istanbul convention or gender-based violence as a eurocrime and they are going to try to undermine the commission's directive. and if something does prosper, they use the council to block it. ladies and gentlemen of the far right, that's enough. to another dog with that bone, that, though the monkey wears silk, monkey stays.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed faced with the project of the european political community, which, in view of the fact that the prague summit - which was, incidentally, very well organized by the czech presidency - was a forum for meeting between european states, that is to say, not only between those who are members of the european union... as i said, in view of the result and the expectations it has generated, it is a good thing that there is a forum which would fill a kind of void, insofar as it plays a role other than that of nato, where the americans are, or that of the osce, where the americans are also, or that of the council of europe, which is mainly devoted to the question of human rights. as long as there is a space for meeting, for launching joint projects, for taking a common stand against russian aggression in ukraine, i think that is a positive thing. however, it should be clear, as high representative josep borrell has pointed out on his blog, that it cannot be an alternative to enlargement. it has to add value to existing formats - to what i have already referred to - it has to be a community of shared principles and it has to have a very lightweight structure. we cannot create more secretariats, new structures, because the institutional structure that really exists, and which we must continue to expand and deepen at the same time, is the european union.
madam president, we are still in the fog. we don't know if this is an expectation of what could become or is always a talk show, but we have to remember that a lot of things in europe started out as a talk show, like the european union itself. it takes time and a couple of crises. but for that, we have to resolve some doubts. is this about values or is it about realpolitik? the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in this area. after the summit, mr michel no longer spoke of values, but only of interests, and that carries a risk, commissioner: that by widening the circle around or against russia we risk lowering our democratic demands. but it also does not seem to be a security organisation, even though the war was the trigger for it, because there are friends of russia there and because a security system in which nato and the united states are not involved is certainly not very realistic. it is therefore still an unidentified political object and i will allow myself to agree with you, without setting a precedent: this is, for the moment, an opportunity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. 828 million people are hungry, not knowing what they'll eat tomorrow. our primary task must be to equip the world food programme to provide emergency aid. but we also have to look at the long-term causes -- why are so many people starving? one reason is the climate catastrophe. just look around africa. many countries have no crops at all. that is why the fight against climate catastrophe is our priority. putin, yes, uses hunger as an instrument of war. but we must also be clear that poverty is the main cause of hunger. the unequal distribution of food is a core problem. and so we have to deal with this: how do we actually deal with food in europe? we're still putting grain in the tank. we still put a lot of grain in the feed basket. that has to change. and we also need to make our systems sustainable. that's only possible with agroecological systems. we need to stop our agriculture being extremely dependent on fossil fuels in many areas. we have to get away from that. and then we have really sustainable agricultural systems, also in europe.
mr president, of course war is another problem, but our problems with agriculture and food are largely of our own making. the politicians of the european union and the green pact are contributing substantially to this food crisis that is spreading around the world, a crisis that was already present before the invasion and that now no one can hide. very soon, drinking a glass of water will be a luxury in the countries of the european union as a result of the application of an irrational agricultural model where the farmer is presented as the number one enemy of the environment, productivity as a taboo and the profitability of farms as a marginal or unimportant aspect. in spain we are seeing our primary sector, our agriculture, our fisheries, being stabbed every day. we're looking at it. spain was really the granary and agricultural producer of the roman empire, and now we are going to end up being sri lanka if we continue like this with the policy of the european union. let us all remember sri lanka.
madam president, commissioner, let me start with a personal name: yuri kerpatenko. kerpatenko was the conductor of the kherson philharmonic orchestra and was murdered just days ago after refusing to give a concert in russian-occupied territory. the invasion of ukraine is leaving a trail of open wounds, tangible and intangible, from the cruelest dangers faced by artists, journalists and academics, to the destruction of cultural heritage. the costs of this war are unbearable for humanity as a whole. that is why, in our roadmap, to contribute to peace, reconstruction and recovery, art and culture must be a cornerstone and a safe place. the cultural and creative sectors must have cooperation and funding mechanisms to enable them to continue their work, because art and culture can be tools for peace, because their voice will be essential to transitioning post-conflict.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my support and that of the spanish socialist workers' party for this motion for a resolution on cultural solidarity with ukraine and a joint emergency response mechanism for cultural recovery in europe. this debate is taking place at a symbolic and, i would say, unfortunately important moment. we have seen how the criminal regime of putin has not only bombed the civilian population, the infrastructure, the power stations, the bridges of ukraine, but has also murdered an orchestra conductor, yuri kerpatenko, for refusing to conduct a concert for its occupying forces. what can we say in the face of this brutality? how can we respond? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in ukraine, but we should be concerned about the situation in the region, and we should be concerned about the situation in the region, and we should be concerned about the situation in the region. putin wants to destroy the identity and soul of ukraine. every euro spent on the reconstruction of its culture and heritage is also a euro spent towards the defeat of this imperialist project.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the irrational, arbitrary and disproportionate decision of the european commission to ban bottom trawling in 87 areas is yet another attack on a strategic sector such as the fisheries sector. vox has been denouncing in solitude for years the attacks committed by this network of bureaucrats who, far from reality, put the prejudices of the lobbies before the demand for food sovereignty of european nations. today, fortunately, the spanish political parties are joining this permanent demand. welcome, if only once, to common sense. but you are responsible for the climate fanaticism that is taking place in the european commission and that is now claiming yet another victim: the spanish fishing industry. the commission's action is consistent with the view of the commissioner for the environment, oceans and fisheries and his team of geriphalets, who have described fishing as a destructive industry and the fishing industry as a bunch of cheats. never before have so few done so much damage. the only destructive industry is the european commission, which attacks farmers, cattle farmers and fishermen under the pretext of environmental protection, while our supermarkets are full of products obtained in third countries which do not even remotely meet the regulations required of our producers. destroying the primary sector is condemning our people to poverty and dependence, but it is also an attack on the environment, because no bureaucrat takes better care of and protects the environment than any of our men of the field or of the sea. you have the power, but you also have the discredit and the dishonor. they have only one way out: to suspend the application of this regulation immediately, to renegotiate it in the standing committee and then, of course, to go home.
madam president, madam commissioner, my country, galicia, has the most powerful fisheries sector in the european union. the coastal communities live off the sea, off fishing, and that is why we are also demanding respect here: respect for fishing, respect for the people of the sea who are being attacked by the european commission's decisions on the regulation on bottom fishing. we see that anti-europeanism is even being created by these decisions, which pains me because everyone there believes in europe. and it is because of the excessive zeal in the application of this regulation, the application of the regulation without the proper evaluation, without knowing the damage it causes, the socioeconomic damage that we are beginning to see in those coastal communities in galicia, because everything is put in the same bag and there is no socioeconomic evaluation. they are making decisions without any real scientific weight and what we are demanding, really and once and for all, is a reassessment, in addition to the suspension of the act of execution. the resources are being prepared to kill this act and i ask the commissioner, who is not here today, to really reassess this at once, as this situation is unsustainable for the fishing people, and to also compensate himself. they do not want subsidies or compensation, they want to go fishing, but what cannot be said is that the member states will then pay for the damage caused by the european commission. we are also opening the door to less sustainable fishery products, to less sustainable imports. is this the aim of the common fisheries policy? what we want in the european green deal is sustainability, strategic autonomy, not external dependence; healthy, healthy products and fish in europe's sustainable seas. if not, it will be as the galician poet manuel antonio said: "we were getting lonely / or sea or boat and more of us". we do not want that to happen to our fishermen, our seafarers.
madam president, madam commissioner, the commission seems to have a purely industrial view of fisheries, completely ignoring the reality of the different fleets and the real situation in ports and fish auctions. or it is like the regulation on deep-sea fishing, which was drawn up without taking account of the type of vessel or the characteristics or specificities of each coast. they treat large industrial fleets in the same way as small-scale fishermen; they apply the same measures in the gulf of cadiz or on the galician coast as in france or ireland. and all this without taking into account the morphology of each zone. this has led the sector to take a stand and several states to mobilize to stop it. it is unacceptable that a regulation which could leave more than 10 000 families in spain alone without their source of income has been made without their demands and without the involvement of those affected. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources in the north sea. we must preserve our seas, of course, but with serious studies, effective measures and intelligent, non-bureaucratic implementation, which will avoid sending our fishermen to poverty in a capricious way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a 'blue card' intervention. i agree with what you say about protecting the seas and that we need to protect our seas, but my question is: you defend an implementing act, what evidence do you have that cod long-liner fishing affects the seabed in this way? what evidence do you have to say this? does this affect the act of execution? i mean, i see a terrible inconsistency in what you just said.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. while the french, through the fault of the european union's insane policy of energy precarisation, are living in hunger and cold, while the very large energy and food companies are making record profits, emmanuel macron has found nothing better than to leave the state for twenty years at the mercy of multinationals before private arbitration tribunals. how is that possible? because of the international treaty on the energy charter. the treaty constituted a serious infringement of national sovereignty, allowing companies to attack states whose decisions affected the profitability of their investments. since 1998, it has enabled companies to pocket over 85 billion in compensation. macron has left the treaty, but it included a so-called survival clause for a period of 20 years, which means that france, during this period of time, can always be attacked by airlines. and this, while the treaty was in the midst of renegotiation to remove this clause. this is how we have to suffer once again the costly effects of emmanuel macron's boasting. once again, macron will have, against the interests of the french, fulfilled his mission of defending interests from elsewhere.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission remains of the opinion that, looking at possible alternatives, the best outcome is to have a reformed energy charter treaty in line with eu sustainable development and climate action objectives, rather than having an unreformed energy charter treaty applying to the eu and the member states during a 20-year sunset—clause period triggered by unilateral withdrawal. in view of cop27, and looking beyond the eu, a reformed energy charter treaty will give a signal that investment policy can be fully aligned with our ambitious climate objectives. backing the eu-driven results on modernisation is also a matter of the eu’s credibility as an international partner. the commission is looking forward to further exchanges on this issue with the european parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the eu's response to the growing repression of protests in iran (2022/2936 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that this debate is scheduled to include a round of speeches by the political groups and that, therefore, there will be no spontaneous speeches and no blue cards will be accepted.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank you all for your proactive stance in response to the killing of 22—year—old mahsa amini and the brutal repression of the ensuing peaceful demonstrations in iran. the death of mahsa amini at the hands of the iranian morality police remains the most deplorable thing there is for anyone who generally believes in the duty of institutions to protect their citizens. the outrageous episode caused has resulted in a national protest movement that is putting in question the political, religious and cultural foundations of the shiite clerical regime. there is a strong political unity in europe in condemning the way the iranian security forces are handling the current protests. many have been injured and detained and there is still no clarity on the number of people who lost their lives in the protests. the decision to severely restrict internet access by the relevant iranian authorities is a further cause of concern as it blatantly violates freedom of expression. concern is growing over recent statements by iranian lawmakers calling for the death penalty against protesters. this is unacceptable, and i would like to thank all of you honourable members who have already publicly expressed their dissent. the eu has a strong unequivocal and long—standing opposition to the death penalty in all times and in all circumstances, and aims at its universal abolition. the death penalty is a cruel and inhuman punishment which fails to act as a deterrent to crime and represents an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity. as the hr/vp said during his intervention at the european parliament plenary on 4 october, showing a strong and united reaction by the eu is of the utmost importance. people in iran and everywhere else have the right to peaceful protest. fundamental rights must be respected in all circumstances. on 17 october, in a clear and strong message to iran, the eu added 11 individuals and four entities to the list of those subject to restrictive measures in a context of existing iran human rights sanctions regime for their role in the death of mahsa amini and in the violent response to peaceful demonstrations. at the same time as eu representatives, we continue to use every opportunity in our direction exchanges with the iranian authorities to urge them to ensure the respect of fundamental rights of iranian citizens, including the rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly, irrespective of religion, belief or any other status, and in full consistency with the principles enshrined in the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which iran is a party. let us assure you, honourable members, that the eu and its member states will continue to closely monitor the situation of protests in iran and will continue to consider all options at its disposal, including further restrictive measures to address the killing of mahsa amini and the violent response of the iranian security forces to peaceful protests.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i’m a member of the european parliament coming from the hague, the netherlands. the hague welcomes many people from around the world. but unlike any other city in the world, it actively welcomes war criminals by keeping them incarcerated behind bars. and i can tell you, there’s plenty of room in the hague, i can assure you. in my experience, their countries extradite their war criminals to the hague when they want to come clean with the past, when they envisage a new, brighter future. the iranian people are currently in a similar process, imagining a brighter future for their country. so the importance of today’s debate here is not just about supporting the brave iranian people, standing up to repression, to torture, and to the lack of freedom. it’s that, but it’s also about helping them imagine that bright future. europe can do and should do exactly that by putting out new sanctions – sanctions to human rights offenders, to the irgc – but also by actively hampering iranian cyber operations. let’s also make a plan for that, for new sanctions on dual—use goods. let’s help the people in iran by making the people in the hague excited, by welcoming their new citizens behind bars.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, we are not going to talk about how bad the criminal regime of the ayatollahs of iran is. they've been murdering the opposition for 40 years. by the way, they came with western help, let us all remember. thirty thousand dead killed in 1988 alone. and then we have had regularly - every year, every two years, every month - killings, killings and killings all the time, and they have always been forgiven by a europe that is eager to make deals with iran, permanently; that has connections with iran; that has seen how iran has entered ibero-america in the way that it has entered, by the hand of maduro, with the spanish socialist workers' party, with contacts with the communist party podemos of spain. all the infiltrations that have been coming from outside, the threats... now it's the sale of drones and weapons to ukraine. they attack outside, they murder inside; now they threaten us, the parliamentarians and the associations for the protection of human rights. we are being threatened and there is absolute silence from governments like the spanish. why is that? those complications have brought us here. we have to close the embassies, put real sanctions on iran and blockade, call the revolutionary guard terrorists terrorists and end this complicity that has existed all these years.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, repowereu has come to respond to the consequences of the war in ukraine. we now want to make the recovery and resilience mechanism more flexible so as to facilitate the financing of repowereu. in the itra committee we have been committed to strengthening financing but also to building a genuine internal energy market, completing interconnections and interconnections, orienting them towards the future, allowing them to be used also for hydrogen transport, increasing the production of renewable electricity, ensuring that new projects are implemented quickly and putting a greater emphasis on energy efficiency and energy storage projects. we also call on the member states to speed up as much as possible all permitting and procedures for the construction of new renewable energy projects.
madam president, commissioner, the fact that this house is approving repowereu today is great news, because it demonstrates our ability to react and puts concrete funds on the table to achieve two priority objectives: decarbonising our energy mix and cutting ties with a criminal government such as the russian one. we are proposing in five years what we had planned to do in 15 years, but we cannot stop at applause. no european at home will understand our satisfaction if they do not know whether they will be able to heat their homes this winter. that is why we have fought so hard to get repowereu to support the most vulnerable households and smes as well, but we also need to think long term and look ahead to the problems, because we know that the solution is to invest massively in renewables. but how can we achieve a true energy union if we do not invest in interconnections? is our grid ready to support the increase in renewable power we'll be experiencing this decade? how do we avoid dependence on china when the demand for raw materials like lithium is soaring? addressing these questions now, commissioner, will allow us to avoid having to put more patches on in the future.
madam president, commissioner, the european union always acts in the face of crises: it did so by boosting nextgenerationeu funds after covid and it is doing so now with the repowereu plan in the face of the economic and energy situation faced by european families. but what good are these achievements if the aid does not reach the companies, the workers or the families? we cannot be satisfied with approving regulations and strategic projects and think that we have achieved this. the key is for member states to implement the funds they are receiving effectively and transparently. we need a control mechanism that oversees that money actually gets to those who need it. a recovery plan without actual execution is wet paper. we, the people's party, were branded as unpatriotic and irresponsible for demanding from day one that the funds be implemented quickly and rigorously to avoid a resounding failure. unfortunately, we were right: the money is not getting into the real economy. every day that passes and the spanish government does not execute the funds, the economy is harmed. repowereu can be a success, as long as national governments are up to the task.
madam president, this report has an important consensus among all political groups because we are all aware of the importance of bridging the innovation gap we have with other regions, especially now that we have to move forward in resilience, strategic autonomy and also engage in the green and digital transitions. we really need the implementation of the european innovation council to be ambitious and transformative, all at once. we really need to get this thing up and running. we have specifically called for closing important innovation gaps, such as the gender gap, and also the regional gaps between european regions and territories. finally, we have also called for better access to the accelerator for smes, which are really at the heart of innovation in europe.
madam president, the european jewish intellectual and philosopher george steiner argued that 'the true essence of europe' is the confluence of various traditions, including athens and jerusalem. it is not necessary to go into the great legacy which the jewish community has contributed to european civilization and to the whole of humanity. names like maimonides, freud, einstein, among many others, speak for themselves. we live in difficult times where hatred of the different, whether jewish or muslim, christian or atheist, is growing everywhere. anti-semitism, in particular, is on the rise, precisely on the continent that gave birth to the barbarism of the holocaust. that is why it is important to remember that spain offers since 2015 the possibility of obtaining spanish nationality to the descendants of sephardic jews, that is, those who lived in iberia, sefarad in hebrew. the initiative seeks to redress the historical injustice committed in 1492, when the jews were expelled from aragon and castile. so far, more than 90 000 applications have been accepted.
madam president, the absence of women in business has been the result of biased, prejudiced and unfair decisions. decisions explaining the gender gap in employment, wages and pensions, glass ceilings and cement ceilings. we have suffered barriers that have forced us to work much harder to compete, even though we are better prepared, and that have forced us to choose between our personal, family and work lives so that men do not have to. today we know that this injustice has also had a negative effect on the performance of the economy itself, because the feminization of the enterprise guarantees sustainability, security, realism, flexibility, cooperation, responsibility, trust, empathy and the promotion of consensus. women's leadership changes the corporate culture and that change increases innovation, competitiveness and profitability. it turns out that it's not success that makes us happy, but happiness that ensures success. anyway, they're not giving us anything. it's more like we're giving to the world, as we've been doing for centuries, and now it's about getting something in return. only what we deserve.
madam president, commissioner, despite what we have heard today from some political groups here, that women still have to be educated, that we have to wait, i would point out that for decades now more women than men have graduated from european universities. plus, with better grades. there are more women than men with secondary and tertiary education in working age. and yet we don't get to the top of the corporate ladder because power is still male. that's why we have to intervene. that is why we need public policies, such as this directive, which balances or tries to balance the presence of women and men on boards of directors. even though it's been stranded for ten years, we still need it. today we are making history, we are making progress in the race towards social justice, but also towards greater resilience, sustainability and efficiency of our companies because when a woman holds the position of ceo in a company, the presence of women in the board of directors increases by 10%. and that changes the culture and also creates role models that need to be followed. this directive is first and foremost a democratic imperative, but it is also an economic imperative. now we have to see that it is actually fulfilled.
a year ago, at a joint meeting of the empl and econ committees here in parliament, i told them that the stability and growth pact lacks the structure and flexibility needed to deal with the crisis. at the time, we were talking about the economic and social crisis of the pandemic. now we have to add the war. i think it's really time to move towards a new model of governance that puts social rights on the same level as economic and environmental rights. here, 'most political groups' have insisted and questioned the golden rule. it is true that we need to move forward - and you have put this forward - step by step and individually for each member state. but we have to get to that point of no return. we cannot slow down the process of a temporary transition and temporary measures to return to the same point of backwardness.
mr president, mr borrell, the actual result of the black sea operation has been ten million tonnes. however, the diplomatic and image result for turkey has been enormous. turkey is seen as the great benefactor of the third world, playing a role that has diplomatic rewards. what has been the real result of our solidarity runners? despite the cost you mentioned, despite the bottlenecks, we have taken out 15 million tonnes. fifteen million tonnes by our land routes, ten million by the black sea. and yet the diplomatic revenue from this huge operation, with the costs you have mentioned, is much less. moreover, russia has managed, at least for some time, to put the image that the problems in some parts, for example, of africa, had to do with our sanctions and not with the fact of the war. not to mention the margin turkey has gained for, surely, a different foreign policy. mr borrell, how is it possible that an operation of this cost and benefit does not have the same diplomatic impact as that of turkey?
mr president, mr borrell, i very much welcome your last reflection, because we must be transparent about re-exports. because sometimes the data tells us the first port where that grain ship docks and we don't know if the grain, whether it's turned into flour or not, is going to other places. that is a market which must be clarified, because sometimes we get confusing news about turkey, which has just said that it is going to make a large export of flour, not grain, of flour, to the third world and that means that some of that grain is going to be re-exported. i think it would be important to make the re-export of this grain transparent in both directions.
mr. president, mr. high representative, russia's war against ukraine is increasing hunger. it's clear. and it has nothing to do with the sanctions that we have imposed on russia from the european union. fao un data show that prices were falling in september, with a fall of 1.4% for cereals and 5.1% for wheat. the good news is that the agreement on the export of grain through the black sea ports was extended a few days ago, but we must make it clear that its main destination - more than 70% - is middle and upper middle income countries which depend on this ukrainian grain. but what about the middle-income and lower-middle-income countries where hunger is increasing more and more? what additional measures is the commission taking in the medium and long term that are not dependent on specific agreements but that will enable millions and millions of people not to have to rely on extensions of these agreements? will the investments of the global gateway initiative that you just announced serve to create opportunity and mitigate hunger? what tracking mechanisms does it have? what are the dates for these investments? let us take hunger seriously and its link to the migration that will continue to come to europe. long-term solutions are needed to prevent the global south from becoming a chronic famine.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr borrell, the european union has to decide whether it is betting on a world divided into blocs, on a new version of the cold war, or whether it is really defending a multipolar international order. the current policy of the european union towards china is characterized by subordination to the directives of the us national security council and involves a battery of sanctions and provocations against china which proves that our alleged plea for a multipolar world is nothing more than a tactical pose. china is not a systemic enemy or a trade rival to any nation on the planet. it is a loyal trading partner, with many possibilities to overcome the effects of the crisis we are suffering and which will hardly be resolved in isolation. the attempt to impose a unipolar system in the service of the united states is, simply and plainly, an attempt to keep alive a system which is a danger not only to the peoples of the european union but to the very survival of the planet and of all humanity.
madam president, mr high representative, the european union's external action service has defined china as a strategic partner, a systemic rival and an economic competitor. cooperation on strategic issues is indeed a shared responsibility, but to make progress we must ensure reciprocity in the rules of the game. we need to continue to break down china's unilateral trade barriers to our products, but also, as beijing does, we need to be very careful about investments in critical sectors (such as advanced technologies, artificial intelligence, semiconductors or the defense industry), which are the basis of our strategic autonomy. if there is one thing we have learned from the invasion of ukraine, it is that dependencies, both energy and technological, can become our achilles' heel. so, mr borrell, do you think that the growing chinese investments in infrastructure and technology companies pose a geopolitical risk to the european union? or, put another way, are the port of hamburg and similar investments a new nord stream 2?
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the notes which i had prepared to close the debate, the diligent services said that once again there was evidence of the european parliament's broad unity in relation to our relationship with china. well, no, well, no, frankly, no. i was just... i'm not really sure. the unit? where's the unit? here, i've heard a wide spectrum of positions, from that we are washington's stooges to that we need to be more pragmatic (no, no, more pragmatic no, on the contrary: we need to make more of a difference with china). there have been all sorts of things, your honours. so there is no unity in parliament on our relationship with china. well, that is normal: it is a complex relationship and certainly ideologically conditioned by many of the positions that have been heard here (the extreme left, the extreme right, the different economic and commercial positions, the legitimate concern more pronounced in some than in others about human rights and forced labour). the first speaker asked me to be more pragmatic in our relations with china. and then others came saying "no, no, no, more pragmatism no, the opposite". almost, almost, some have called for us to cut our trade relations with china. and some have been alarmed that we have normal relations with china. ladies and gentlemen, we trade with china every day almost two trillion, trillion american dollars, that is to say, two billion dollars in one direction and two billion dollars in the other. what do you call that? normal or abnormal? in any case, very important. when two billion goods are exchanged between europe and china every day, our relationship is of such importance that i cannot understand why the visit of the german chancellor to china should cause concern. is it not normal for the german chancellor to make this visit, since his country exports 3% or more of its gdp to china? besides, how many times did chancellor merkel go to china? how many times was she the former chancellor before she was chancellor scholz? why was it bad or good before and now it's good or bad, depending on how you look at it? ladies and gentlemen, our relationship with china will be one of the most important and challenging things we have to face. that is why the foreign affairs council has taken the trouble to draft a new text explaining how we are going to approach this relationship, which is what i have tried to summarize here. you've already found my very good friend bütikofer trivial or banal or meaningless. well, that is what the foreign affairs council, after long deliberation by all the ministers, has produced on the subject. it's four or five pages that summarize the official position of the foreign affairs council on china. and it doesn't seem to me to be banal, or trivial, or hollow, or irrelevant. it leaves a lot of loose ends, of course, because five pages cannot accommodate the immensity and complexity of our relationship with china, which will remain multifaceted, will remain polyhedral, will have many faces. at the same time we have to look at china as we do: as someone with whom we have to cooperate, with whom we have to compete. we are rivals, partners. the world's problems cannot be solved without extraordinary cooperation with china, and at the same time, china itself represents a momentous geopolitical shift in which dissociation is not an option. not even the united states is considering it. but mr. bütikofer is right. we must ensure that our dependencies do not become vulnerabilities, as has happened with our energy dependence on russia. china today plays a key role in many of the value chains in which our industrial production is based. it may be that our dependence on china for the green transition is as important in the future as our dependence on fossil fuels from russia has been until now. so we must be very careful that our relationship does not end up becoming a vulnerable dependency. today china accounts for about 90% of our demand for rare earth minerals. or, for example, 90 percent in the case of magnesium or 80 percent of the solar panels that we use in europe. eight out of ten solar panels have been produced in china. and have you seen the evolution of the import of solar panels from china since the war in ukraine started? did you see the curve? have you seen how the curve is going up exponentially? does that sound good or bad? everyone agrees that we should increase investment in renewable energy and put a lot of solar panels. do you know where they came from? from china. so what's wrong, having them or importing them? a little realism would be nice, gentlemen. we need to engage with china, of course, to deal with global problems and at the same time reinforce what we call the 'strategic open economy'. we have mechanisms for that (do not always kick the commission, of which i have the honour to be vice-president and high representative). the commission has put in place a system to monitor direct investments in europe, as well as an international public procurement instrument and foreign subsidies rules, which will come into force next spring. i hope that agreement will soon be reached on the anti-coercion instrument which will be a fundamental instrument, although not exclusively aimed at china. and we certainly need to be stronger in relation to the european law on basic raw materials announced by president von der leyen in her state of the union speech, which is part of this effort. how we have to diversify our relationships with other partners. i come from central asia and i can assure you that there is a huge amount of work to be done there to diversify our export markets and our sources of import of key raw materials. some of you have spoken, in very critical terms, of how we are approaching the problem of forced labour that is posed by our relationship with china. well, yes, it is true. this is a subject on which things have been done too (it seems that nothing has been done!). already in february of this year, a review of our trade policy was carried out. since then, the commission has taken legislative and non-legislative initiatives in this area. on 21 april last year, the commission made a proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability reporting to specifically monitor the issue of human rights and to systematically provide analyses to list european companies that are affected by the problem of forced labour. on 23 february this year, the commission proposed a proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability due diligence (somebody said they don't understand what that is), which seeks to introduce due diligence tools for european companies to identify, prevent, mitigate and take into account adverse human rights and environmental impacts in their operations across their value chains. on 13 july this year, the commission and the external action service released a practical guide on due diligence for all european companies to analyse the risk of forced labour being used in all their operations and value chains. last september, the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation banning products made with forced labour from the eu market. this regulation is, ladies and gentlemen, pending approval by you and the council. i hope that those members who have criticised the commission are aware that it is in their hands to pass this regulation. so, the ball in many cases is not sent to me because i've already sent it to you. under this regulation, customs can and must identify and prevent products manufactured on the basis of labour exploitation from entering the european union market. it is certainly a big issue, but please don't tell me that nothing has been done. i've made you a long list of everything that's been done. we hope that the council and parliament will now fulfil their role as co-legislators. but we, unlike the united states, do not have legislation specifically targeted at china. we are dealing with the general issue, whether the products are chinese or not, and the failure to comply with the regulations of the international labour organisation, which, incidentally, china has just announced that it will ratify two of the most important conventions of that organisation. as i say, our relationship with china cannot be summed up in one sentence, let alone in the ten minutes of this final speech. but also, without a doubt, how we relate to china will shape the history of this century and ours in particular. because we have established with china - someone has said this before - such an important trade relationship and our companies have invested so much in china, and chinese and south-east asian low-wage workers have contributed so much to controlling inflation during the years of global economic expansion that we cannot think that we can build a future without taking into account the enormous strength of a country that is called upon to play its rightful role in the world by its size, by its economic strength, regardless of whether our political system is the same as theirs. of course it's not. so we have this complex relationship that sometimes some people find it hard to accept and would prefer a more one-dimensional direction and, whether they like it or not, the complexity is there, it's there to stay. we will continue to work to ensure that this relationship does not come at the expense of the defence we make of our principles and values, of human rights and of representative democracies. but i would like to see that in all the considerations i have heard here this evening regarding our relationship with china, the reality of life is taken into account. the complexity of this reality. and the need for the european parliament to contribute to this too.
the debate is closed.
the ppe group has notified the president of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting, and take effect on the date of this announcement.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu response to the increasing crackdown on protests in iran (2022/2958(rsp).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, i would like to thank you once again for your continued attention to the domestic situation in iran. mahsa amini was abused and died in custody at the hands of the morality police. there is only one word to describe this tragic event – outrage. we have seen brave iranian women and men taking to the streets to express their dissent. women have emerged as a major driver of nationwide protest movements, calling for the full enjoyment of fundamental rights for all iranians. despite our repeated calls for restraint to the iranian security forces, the use of disproportionate force against protesters continues. and there is still no clarity from iran on the number of people who have been killed or arrested during the protests. this is unacceptable. those responsible for the death of mahsa amini and all perpetrators of violence in the ensuing peaceful demonstrations must be held accountable. recent calls by iranian officials and lawmakers to impose the death penalty on protesters are a cause of extreme concern. the death penalty is, in all cases, an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity. the eu is a staunch supporter of its universal abolition. we are appalled by the reports that some protesters have already received or will receive harsh sentences, including to death. the eu will not remain silent. we will continue to react and raise our concerns about the human rights situation in iran, including with the iranian government at all levels. this debate is a timely opportunity to recall the swift response to the eu and to reflect on the way forward. on 25 september, the high representative josep borrell issued a strong declaration on behalf of the 27 eu member states and, swiftly after the foreign affairs council on 17 october and 14 november, the council added 40 individuals and seven entities to the list of those subject to eu restrictive measures in the context of the iran humanitarian rights sanction regime. we took good note of the ep resolution of 6 october on the death of mahsa amini and the repression of women’s rights protesters in iran. it testifies to the quick and crucial reaction of this house to any attempt to crack down on fundamental rights and freedoms. let me reiterate that iran’s retaliatory measures, including on members of its parliament, are unacceptable as an attempt to sanction our democratic institutions and our core principles. iran’s measures are purely politically motivated and we reject them. high representative / vice-president borrell has conveyed this message to his interlocutors in iran, and his spokesperson reiterated this publicly. honourable members, the eu welcomes the convening of a special session of the un human rights council in geneva to address the deteriorating human rights situation in iran. strengthening accountability for human rights violations across the world is at the core of the eu’s external policy actions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. commissioner várhelyi has just described the situation in iran; there is nothing to add to that. the islamist mullah regime uses repression as a means of survival. but in view of the developments described by the commissioner, i believe that the european union must finally reassess its policy towards iran and continue to increase its pressure on the regime. iran may be facing its biggest domestic political and social changes since 1979. the opportunity now exists to achieve systematic improvements in the situation of women and a social change towards greater freedom and democracy. but this requires the european union's resolute and active support. commissioner, i beg you to please: we must, as the european union, give greater support to the protest movement and to civil society in iran. the eu sanctions must be extended to all persons and bodies of the iranian regime involved in the repression of the current protests, and the so-called revolutionary guards must be placed on the eu-wide sanctions list. i am grateful to president roberta metsola for following the suggestion of the coordinators in the committee on foreign affairs that we will not allow any direct contacts with official iranian interlocutors in the european parliament until further notice. this is our response to the sanctioning of six colleagues by the regime in tehran.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, mr commissioner, after the horrific tragedy of 22-year old jina mahsa amini we are continuously witnessing inhumane actions in the iranian regime. iran is trying to suppress the fundamental right to protest in the most brutal way, including by issuing death sentences. more than 400 protesters have been killed and around 17 000 have been arrested by the security forces. news coming from iran is very disturbing, and unfortunately, the most vulnerable are not spared from the horrors. the fact that about 50 children have already been killed is bloodcurdling and shows the barbarism of this regime. yesterday we also saw the iranian football players at the world cup standing in solidarity with the protesters and refusing to sing the national anthem. the regime’s response was expected – censorship, darkness, and ignoring. their brutal repression is trying to crush the protests, but it cannot break the spirit of freedom that has inspired many iranian people to risk their lives for the common good. we as the european parliament have to send a strong message of support and put forward a decisive eu response to sanction the deeply compromised iranian regime. it’s our duty to those courageous people looking for their freedom.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, i want to talk to you about kian pirfalak tonight. kian was nine years old, a little boy who built battery cars, wooden boats, who dreamed of becoming an engineer when he grew up, one day. only kian will never grow up. he was shot dead by police last week, driving home from school with his parents. and his father is still seriously injured. kian is the youngest of 60 children 60 children! who have already been victims of the terrible repression in iran. because that's what iran is today: shooting live bullets at protesters, at women, at children. it is rape, it is torture and it is also sending its armored vehicles to suppress the revolt in kurdistan. iran today is horror. and the honour for europe would be to stop procrastinating, to stop waving the carrot and the stick. the sanctions on the one hand, but also trade, for example, which is constantly increasing, we owe it to all these women for their incredible courage. because what is happening in the land of the mullahs is not a revolt, to paraphrase the duke of la rochefoucauld, what is happening in iran is a revolution. and i want to end with kian's favorite phrase, in the name of the rainbow god, may this beautiful country, which has never ceased to dream of freedom, find the fragrance of its freedoms.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. we look with concern at the spiral of violence in iran, and i bow in deep sorrow before the many, many victims - especially the children - of the more than 400 people who have been killed so far. indeed, my highest respect goes to the iranian women who are protesting against all odds, and to all those who support them, like the iranian national football team, who risk far more than a yellow card, or the basketball players who have taken off their hijab. what a great and brave civil society! and if there's anything we can do, it's to create safe channels to this civil society to actually make these protests visible, to give them more and more face. and this is necessary because the brutality of the regime has reached a new level, with iraqi kurdish areas being bombed out of revenge and, incidentally, this is done together with ankara, which is also bombing syrian kurdish areas here. the legacy of jina mahsa amini is that we are united here in europe in condemning any attack on kurdish areas. that is the least i can expect from the european parliament. and i also expect that we will do everything we can to make sure that this iranian regime does not get its hands on nuclear weapons. nuclear weapons in its hands are an existential threat to peace and stability and also a call for a new nuclear arms race. we're not interested in that. i think we should make that clear. and in all the other things we do - and i agree with those who have spoken before - i think we must not forget this aspect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, an elderly woman said: 'it is unbelievable how many women, especially young women, go out in the street without a headscarf. ours is a revolution, but our struggle is not just about the veil. we want a secular democracy. we are fighting for freedom. marhane, one of the thousands of women who have taken part in this revolution, explains that the purpose of the veil is to humiliate women, the outward sign that you are not a free human being. but behind it is everything else. iranian women inherit half of the male inheritance and girls can be married off by their parents from the age of 13. we need our father's and our husband's permission to work, to get a passport, to travel. we can't even go by bike or motorbike, that explains marhane. this is why the iranian women's revolution does not stop, despite the repression. according to iran human rights, 342 protesters were killed by police and according to the united nations, 14,000 people were arrested and at least five of them were sentenced to death. a new generation of iranian women, led by women, have decided to replace pain with anger, fear with determination. every time a woman takes off her veil, she risks her life, but she is sending a message of freedom to the world, and the union will fail in its values and its mission if it is not able to accompany this revolution to the end.
madam president, this debate today is an act of recognition of the courage of the iranian people. it is easy to play the scepticism card now, sometimes disguised as realism, and think that repression will eventually silence the protests. but the protests have spread to all the provinces. protests continue and iranians are standing up to repression. we are not therefore faced with a déjà vu. the genie of freedom is definitely out of the bottle. the theocratic system has a very serious problem and this problem is expected to be terminal. let appearances not deceive us: if the morality police has disappeared from the streets it is because the regime needs more deterrent and repressive capacity than the veil guards offer. the iranian regime is also a serious risk that goes beyond the regional level, as evidenced by the fact that iran has become russia's key ally. let us be concrete: is it acceptable that the iranian ambassadors to the european union remain peacefully installed in their residences? is it acceptable that the repressive forces of the iranian regime, starting with the revolutionary guards, continue to act without being identified as what they are, destabilizing organizations of a terrorist nature? it is urgent to continue to provide answers.
thank you, but i would just like remind you that members must not display any banners in the chamber.
madam president, all my support is with the bravery of iranian women. protests in iran and around the world are fuelled by the murder of kurdish mahsa amini, by the murder of children, by opening fire against civilians. no woman should be murdered for what she wears. women, life, freedom! control over women’s clothing is an oppression of choice and a form of asserting power over women’s bodies. the same patriarchy and autocratic forces are repressing women in all the world. ten days ago, i contacted mr borrell about the situation of ana baneira, a galician activist arrested at a protest in iran. mr borrell, can you tell me something about this person, about this galician woman?
madam president, i was the only czech citizen on that latest sanctions list with some of my colleagues. it's kind of curious, of course, because nothing's happening to us, but it's happening to tens of thousands of people in iran. we have over 600 protesters who have already been killed by the security forces, 30,000 arrested. and not just that, but the risk that iran poses to global security. so we should be hardened, both for the sake of human rights and because iran is destabilizing the situation in the surrounding countries, in iraq, in lebanon, in syria and even in yemen. we should not only continue with the sanctions, we should make it clear that we will not negotiate with iran even on the so-called nuclear deal. and we should really start acting very principled.
madam president, it is very right that we take these measures against iran. we have to take a lot more. it is up to the member states to take them. but it is certainly funny, almost, to see the tears and hear the lamentations of a number of countries and a number of attitudes that have been here. in 2019, there were 1,500 deaths in iran, five times the number that there have been now. and yet, two months later, mr. borrell was shaking hands with the iranian president, looking for business. we've been doing real pro-iran lobbying here against the united states for years. he's been protecting iran. i would like to know where the spanish government is, which has not yet condemned the sanctions and the blacklisting of european parliamentarians by iran, including the spanish. why would i be? it may have something to do with the connections that the podemos group, the communists and the spanish socialists have with iran.
the rapporteur. madam president, this report highlights the need for coherence and responsibility in the european union's security and stability policy towards the middle east in general and the gulf region in particular. this is very relevant as the current regional situation is characterised by growing instability and human rights violations which are often perpetrated by armed governments supported by the european union. the lack of a regional and autonomous approach by the european union has been very problematic and has contributed to fuelling tensions, and the report therefore raises the need to reassess policies, taking into account a human security perspective as defined by the united nations. the european external action service recently published its joint communication on a strategic partnership with the gulf, which promotes cooperation with all gulf cooperation council countries but falls short in several areas highlighted in the report. the security and stability of the middle east is interdependent with that of europe and therefore we need to reverse the failed policies that have led to the current situation, ensure a coherent approach, not based exclusively on the fight against terrorism which often uses repressive methods not in accordance with international law, and take account of the sources of instability. any form of participation by the european union, including through funding, should contribute to ensuring international law, the united nations sustainable development goals and the concept of human security. local problems and conflicts require local solutions. the existing regional organisations should be at the forefront of peace and dialogue processes in the region. the european union must strengthen multilateralism in the region, both with countries and with regional organisations, and deepen our interparliamentary engagement. we must engage in dialogue and not go to a divisive policy in the region, between the countries perceived as pro-saudi and those perceived as pro-iranian. we must review and, if necessary, suspend the european union's association with those countries in the region which violate human rights. we demand accountability for the war crimes in yemen and we look at the involvement of the european union in that war. an inclusive political process is needed to achieve peace and all parties must participate in un-led talks. we demand an end to the current occupation of part of syria and a political solution to the ongoing conflict based on dialogue, democracy and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. we reject turkey's violations of iraq's sovereignty and territorial integrity. we condemn the occupation of palestine, just as we call for the lifting of the israeli blockade of the gaza strip. the policy of illegal israeli settlement expansion in the west bank and east jerusalem must be reversed immediately. we also stress the positive impact of unrwa throughout the region and the need to ensure adequate funding. we call for an effective mechanism to ensure that the common position of the european union prohibiting the supply of arms to countries involved in conflicts is respected. we call for the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the region, in accordance with the resolution of the conference of the parties to the 1995 treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. and we ask israel to sign the treaty to reveal its nuclear status. we need the european union to engage with civil society. criteria relating to women's rights, workers' rights, freedom of association, freedom of the press and guaranteed access to basic rights are essential. and we condemn the massive use of spyware, like the israeli pegasus, throughout the region. we call for the democratic clause to be applied in association agreements with the european union where there are clear violations of human rights. and finally, we call on the regional authorities to respect the prohibition of torture under all circumstances and to abolish the death penalty. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report which, although i was the rapporteur, i would certainly not have written if it had been up to me alone, nor would any of us here have written it. this report is the fruit of the commitment and responsibility, mainly of seven groups that have been able to make a courageous and generous commitment to a report that helps to improve the relationship between the european union and the countries of the region, to have a relationship that is committed to respect for human rights, to respect for the sovereignty and independence of those countries and to reject an interventionist vision, a colonialist ambition with which we go to those countries and tell them what they have to do. i would certainly like to thank the other groups who have generously contributed to the preparation of this report and i am of course at their disposal for whatever is necessary.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, manu pineda, for his job with this file, as well as the collaboration from the other shadow meps. i think we will reach a good, balanced and interesting outcome. the vast region covered by this report across the middle east has undergone profound changes over the last decade. we have been witnessing, for instance, the rise of the gulf states as engines of regional development. we’ve seen growing rivalries between big players like saudi arabia and iran, and an authoritarian restoration across the region following the years of the arab spring uprisings from 2011 onwards, with severe negative implications for fundamental rights and freedoms. in the light of the many conflicts and deep divisions that affect the region, and given its importance for the eu due to its geographical location but also the common ties that we have, we have a stake in contributing to the progress and stability of the whole region. and there are areas of collaboration that need to be explored more intensively. for instance, partnerships in the field of clean energy, taking into account the region’s large renewable energy capacity. however, any deepening of the collaboration must be based on the demand for respect for human rights in accordance with international law. severe and pervasive state repression against human rights defenders, activists, journalists, dissidents throughout the region has to be condemned. in this regard, the eu has to make engagement with civil society a priority and aim at concrete commitments at the respective regular human rights dialogues with countries in the region. finally, more engagement is needed from our side in the region’s forgotten conflicts like the war in yemen or protracted ones like the israel-palestine conflict.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, well, this is a report - with all my affection, mr pineda - signed by someone in this parliament who has photographs of practically all the terrorist groups in the middle east, which is a contradiction in principle. but it certainly reflects the clear sectarianism of this parliament and the european union towards the middle east. and it also explains why in the middle east we don't paint practically anything. because of that sectarianism, because of that partiality which has led us to continue to finance organisations which have a lot to do with destabilisation and that, for example, there was no interest at the time in supporting president trump's great american success, the abraham accords, which are the ones that open the door to real stability, which is prosperity and openness within the middle east to open a new era of cooperation in that region. that's what we have to look at: why europe doesn't paint anything. and it's because of these things.
madam president, a lot has changed in recent years in the countries of the middle east. it's gone unnoticed, but do you know who was in the front line accompanying the emir of qatar during the opening of the world cup? well, it was mohammed bin salman, crown prince of saudi arabia, and not even two years ago, saudi arabia led the largest known blockade in the region against qatar. the abraham accords have brought the arab and jewish world closer than ever before. and those who haven't signed those agreements are holding weekly negotiations with israel. in just two years we are already seeing spectacular results, so imagine if parliament supported them and extended them to the rest of the arab countries. we are talking about a real paradigm shift in the region. the middle east is changing. a new window of opportunity for stability is opening. saudi arabia, the uae, qatar, kuwait, israel, morocco, egypt: they all know it. and the european parliament should really facilitate that change. so if we really want stability in the region, the european union must accompany, support and promote it. the future of yemen, syria or palestine depends on achieving cooperation between all the countries of the middle east and that is where you have to find us: supporting them.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to think that in the majority of speeches, although some members have put more emphasis on one thing and others on another, the majority has always been committed to the positive. i share some of the complaints, such as the one made by the green/efa group member, that it is true that we talk a lot about gender issues, but in the end, when we have to decide, we decide or opt for men. it's true, you know. unfortunately, i'm going to have to answer to two people who aren't here. and i find that sad. i'm sad because i wish i could say things with people in front of me. first of all, i would like to address mr lópez-istúriz. mr lópez-istúriz is claiming that israel is the only democracy and is denying the work that has been done in the committee to reach this document. but it turns out that mr lópez-istúriz was not even on the committee, nor was he expected to be on it. he doesn't know anything about what happened there. it has not had to stop at any extreme left, right or middle, because it has not been like that. the colleagues who have been here, who have participated in the debate, have seen that, with the exception of two groups, there has been a totally constructive atmosphere, in which some have put more money into it, others less, but always with the generosity of knowing that we had to come forward with a constructive proposal. and to say that israel is the only democracy in the area... well, i don't know. you can call it democracy if you want. killing children all the time is not democracy. bombing the gaza strip constantly is not democracy. bombing syria is not democracy. using the gaza strip as a weapons testing laboratory is not democracy. that, in my view, and i am not saying this as rapporteur, but as manu pineda, is called terrorism. and i didn't take any pictures with those terrorists. i would also like to reply to mr tertsch. first of all, i want to say that this epic that some fascists have put forward that we are fascists but brave, in mr tertsch's case, does not work. he's a fascist, but a coward. he came in here, dropped the bomb and ran out like a rat. well, i'm going to answer mr. tertsch. your party has been funded by an iranian terrorist organization. that's public and obvious. now, come here and count the milongas you want. but the organization that has been supported by iranian terrorism has been the vox party, to which mr tertsch belongs.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next sitting will start tomorrow at 9.00. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament’s website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for approval tomorrow after the vote.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the need for a european solution to asylum and migration, including search and rescue (2022/2950 (rsp)) a subject which concerns us all in all the member states, and i should like to warmly welcome the commission representatives, vice-president schinas and commissioner johansson, and the council representative, mr bek, to our assembly and ask you, mr minister, to begin your remarks.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioners, dear minister roswall, first of all let me begin by stressing that any loss of life on the irregular migration routes to europe is not acceptable. recent developments in the central mediterranean have brought this issue again to the forefront. providing assistance to people in distress at sea is a humanitarian imperative and a duty of all states and shipmasters under international law. it is crucial that all actors respect applicable international and european rules and that the nearest safe port for disembarkation is provided without delay. we are putting all our efforts in implementing the solidarity declaration agreed upon in june. this mechanism was designed precisely to relieve the pressure on the frontline member states. while it has taken some time to get the mechanism up and running, we are confident that further progress can be made soon. it is also important to underline in this context that the increased number of arrivals, whether by sea, air or land, affect our reception and asylum systems and we need to address them jointly. reception and asylum systems in many member states are already stretched to the maximum as a consequence of the almost 4 million persons that have fled ukraine. given the above and increasing migratory pressure on all eu member states, the presidency has decided to organise an extraordinary meeting of the home affairs ministers that will be held on 25 november. the ministers will discuss the situation along all migratory routes and a joint way forward. we also look forward to the discussion on the commission’s action plan presented this week, which proposes concrete measures to be taken to accelerate the union’s collective work along the central mediterranean route. besides the short—term, urgent actions which the ministers will discuss on friday, we also need to continue focusing on a long—term solution providing a robust and well-functioning eu asylum and migration policy to be agreed and implemented by all member states. the pact on migration and asylum is the european solution to these challenges. therefore we need to continue our legislative work, which we have advanced under our presidency. the agreement on the roadmap that was signed with the parliament is an important step in this direction. it is a clear demonstration of the political willingness of both co-legislators to work on all asylum files with a view to their adoption at the latest by the end of the term of this parliament. we look forward to starting negotiations with the european parliament on the eurodac and on the screening regulations, and to resuming work on other asylum files. discussions on the solidarity concept developed since the beginning of our presidency will continue until the december justice and home affairs council and should then be quickly pursued in the form of legislative work on the asylum and migration management regulation and the crisis regulation. we will also continue to support and work with all our partners in third countries of origin and departure to build their capacities to ensure prevention of irregular migration and disruption of smugglers’ networks and overall work towards sustainable migration management in a safe and orderly manner, and in accordance with fundamental rights. thank you very much for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, in recent weeks, of course, the spotlight has been on the central mediterranean route, where over 90 000 migrants and refugees arrived only this year. these were departures mainly from libya and tunisia, and they were originating primarily from egypt, tunisia and bangladesh. the increase on the central med route was over 50% compared to last year, and most of these arrivals reached the european union after hazardous journeys, search and rescue operations at sea under difficult conditions. at the same time, other routes such as the turkey—eastern mediterranean route and the western mediterranean—atlantic route also continue to face ongoing pressure – and in particular the western balkans route, which has seen a dramatic increase in numbers this year. only yesterday, 500 people were rescued from a small fishing boat near crete by the combined operation of a greek navy frigate, coast guard ships of the hellenic coast guard, a tanker, two cargo ships and two italian fishing boats, all working together. honourable members, all this shows that there will always be challenges and why our responses must not be ad hoc. we cannot continue working event by event, crisis by crisis, ship by ship. the time has now come for a sustainable, comprehensive, holistic european asylum and migration framework. since two years ago, since september 2020, with my colleague, commissioner johansson, we have put on the table a comprehensive set of proposal that provides a response to these challenges: the eu pact on migration and asylum. it is ironic that we have everything we need at our fingertips, but just seemingly out of reach. it is like having a parachute but choosing to jump out of the plane without it. it is the pact that will improve our member states’ ability to manage migration on a system based on eu law and the community method – and if we have learned anything in recent years and this succession of crises, it is that flying solo is not an option. we now need a european agreement on the pact. this debate is therefore a great occasion to renew our call, on parliament as well as on the council, to advance on the roadmap towards the adoption of all the pending proposals of the pact, starting most urgently with the qualifications and resettlement framework regulations and reception conditions directive, where we already have political compromises as well as the screening and eurodac proposals, where we already have council mandates and where trilogues should now begin in earnest. but in the meantime we cannot afford to wait to address the difficult situation at sea. assistance to people in distress at sea is a legal obligation for eu member states under international and eu law, regardless of how people ended in that situation. everybody needs to work together on a common response, with saving lives being priority number one. this monday, we proposed an action plan with 20 specific actions to address the immediate challenges in the central mediterranean. first of all, we need to work with partner countries and international organisations who will never be able to sustain an eu migration policy in isolation. we will support tunisia, egypt and libya to ensure better border management and migration management. we will boost the fight against migrant smuggling, step up our diplomatic engagement on returns and improve legal pathways to the eu. we will maximise the impact of all these actions by launching a team europe initiative before the end of this year. other than working with partners, we also need a more coordinated approach on search and rescue, with stronger cooperation between our member states and all actors involved. precisely in our pact, we have put in place a european contact group on search and rescue. let’s use it. we have also asked frontex to assess the situation and to see whether we need to devote more resources and assets at community level, and we will keep working closely with the unhcr and the iom on potential regional approaches while at the same time promoting discussions with the international maritime organisation. last, but certainly not least in this chapter, we need to make full use of the voluntary solidarity mechanism that we agreed under the french presidency. we agreed a solidarity declaration in june. that was a big success of our french friends, and thousands of relocation places are already available. of course, this is a temporary mechanism, but it is also possible bridge to the future permanent system grounded on eu law that we want to see under the pact. frankly, we do not need to reinvent the wheel here. we have the tools, member states have to use them. the commission will continue to fully support. honourable members, history does not repeat itself often, but it often rhymes. we have to learn the lessons of the past when it comes to migration. we have first to enact immediate operational and practical measures to address the situation along all migratory routes, and the extraordinary home affairs council on friday will allow member states to achieve fast results. however, it will not remove the need for long—term binding solutions. we are in much stronger position now to cope with migration challenges than in 2015—2016. we have a strong european border and coast guard and a fully—functioning asylum agency. we have resources, we have instruments and we have the political will, and we cannot wait any longer to equip ourselves with a future—proof migration framework. this is not a debate about one ship, one route or one part of the sea. it is a debate about our ability as europeans to manage migration in a spirit of trust and solidarity. we will inform the ministers on friday of the latest developments and we will give them the necessary tools for solutions and we will call on them, like we call on you today, to secure an agreement on the pact. action plans, emergency meetings and emergency debates are useful but not sufficient, when we have the permanent solutions. the solutions are here at our fingertips. we can do it and we shall do it.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are sleepwalking into the next great migration crisis. 280,000 illegal immigrants have arrived this year. we are in the middle of europe's next migration crisis. the numbers are at record highs, like 2015 and 2016. the western balkans in particular, with 42 000 inhabitants, is a major route. the current migration policy - this is the starting point of today's debate - europe's current migration policy has failed and we are not yet in a position to give an answer. europe is even looking the other way. that is why the debate is so necessary today, why the debate is so important today. and i thank all the members for having accepted the epp proposal to hold this debate. what are the parts that are driving us around now? the first part is that we need to secure borders. just as i decide in my private apartment who i let in when i open the door, so the state has the right to say at the external border: who do i let in and who do i not let in? we therefore stand behind our border officials, the border guards, and also the frontex officers, who are doing a difficult job, who are trying every day to find the balance and to enforce justice. the state decides who comes to europe, not the mafia decides who comes to europe. and in the south, especially along the southern routes, we have over 50 percent of people who just don't have the right to stay, who are illegal immigrants. we must also ensure that we decide quickly at the external border who can stay and that it is returned quickly. i would like to make this my first request to the commission: we need better return agreements. we have not made progress in the last few years in this situation, that we would have been really better off with african and asian countries. i would also like to say explicitly once again that we need clarity for the officials. officials at the external border are constantly confronted with the accusations of pushback. and justice must be enforced. pushbacks are prohibited. but we have very clear definitions of pushbacks at the land border, but at the sea border it's not so clear. we have had the incidents in melilla on 22 june, for example, where 17 refugees were killed on the spanish-moroccan border. it was the place where the border guard on the sea took place. border security there is much more difficult than on the land border. that is why we need legal clarity on what constitutes a pushback, so that officials do not work in uncertainty. and we can't be blackmailed into it. turkey, including lukashenko, belarus, has declared migration a political weapon. europe must say together: no, we will not allow migrants to be used as a political weapon. i would like to take up some proposals from the socialist camp: for example, the danish government has proposed -- the socialist government in denmark -- that we set up reception centers in africa; to think about how we can enable those who can actually get refugee status to apply in africa; we are not going to force them to take the arduous journey across the mediterranean. the agreement between turkey and the european union is still the blueprint on which we can work. the second pillar - alongside the determination at the border - is solidarity within and help for those who really need it. and we have proved it, ukraine has shown us that it is possible. we opened the doors. we have generously offered help to people in need. all of europe has offered to help, and it's working. this is why it is a proof that the second pillar europe can be equally strongly practised. i would like to say explicitly: for italy, for the southern dimension, and they are having 100 000 arrivals this year, then it is clear that it is not an italian problem, it is a european challenge and that is why solidarity is so urgently needed. we need now actions and not words as the vice president and all the council representatives told us. the newspapers are full now with the french-italian dispute, and that was the reason for the debate on the extraordinary home affairs council meeting next friday. but it's not about one ngo boat. it is part of a systematic challenge like margaritis schinas told us. the reality is that we had promise from france and germany for 8,000 places about voluntary relocation, and finally they delivered 117, in reality. that's europe today. so all promises didn't work. that's why italy, malta, cyprus socialist government in malta, epp government in cyprus sent a letter: please help us. please let us not alone. we need solidarity at european level. and the last point i want to mention is that europe needs an africa and middle east strategy, because the reason, the background why people are fleeing, why people are leaving their homes, is fundamental, it is in our interest to solve it. the european union as a whole is the biggest donor in all these areas, and we have to use it in an effective way to really help people. that's what we need now, solutions, and that's why we fully support the idea that we need a migration pact. we need a migration pact now, dear friends.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, need for a european solution for asylum and migration, including search and rescue: this is a much needed title. we could be even more precise and bold and talk about the need for solidarity and shared responsibility, particularly with regard to arrivals of people in search and rescue operations from the prism of human rights and international law. the events of recent years in the english channel, the mediterranean, lesbos, lampedusa and lanzarote, to name a few tragic examples, bear witness to the magnitude of what we are talking about here. it is not the first time that we have debated this matter in this house and that we have debated it without any concrete results. this year's figures show that nine out of ten migrants reach european shores without the help of ngos, and let us not doubt that without their help these people would have arrived, too, in one form or another. and that's why the message is so clear: stop criminalizing those who save lives. i extend my hand to the groups in this house who share the need for a european policy. i am giving it generously, but also without trying to make use of it or provoking division in this regard. let's all be generous with our money, mr. weber. let us not try to use a few words and a few phrases to provoke what may be cracks in the need for that agreement. i extend my hand to all the groups in this house who consider it important to have a european policy in this area, to take action that will give concrete, sustainable results and without taking into account the issues that some are raising from a nationalist or intergovernmental point of view. let us not be mistaken, immigration can make a decisive contribution to solving some of the most important challenges we have in europe: an ageing continent, a continent that is currently facing great challenges. and that is why i insist that immigration cannot be a problem; it must be treated as a challenge and an opportunity. time is running out and the deaths are not stopping. the dignity of human life must be our guide in adopting a new pact on migration and asylum. this is the spirit of the geneva convention, but we have to make it a reality. it cannot be the responsibility of the countries of the south alone. to claim that the phenomenon of migration is the exclusive responsibility of the country to which they arrive is to deny the existence of a common european border. we believe in the principle of shared responsibility. recent events call for us to make progress, above all, on the solidarity pillar of the new pact, namely more european solidarity. not only in times of increased migratory pressure, but also to deal with crisis situations such as those we have encountered with the war in ukraine or with afghanistan. to achieve our objectives we must also strengthen cooperation with the countries of origin and transit. however, this cooperation must be based on mutual respect. we cannot in any way outsource migration policies. only in this way, on an equal footing, can we make the mediterranean a bridge of cooperation, development aid and understanding. our proposal is clear. search and rescue is a common european responsibility, it is a constant, especially in a world so globalised that it needs a specific common european category, in line with international law. let us remember one thing: every life counts! ladies and gentlemen, in this parliament we have shown that we are up to the task and that we are capable of responding to great challenges. let us show that we are also capable of doing so with the phenomenon of migration before the end of this mandate. it is a demand, almost a plea: let us work tirelessly to move forward together and to achieve a response that is up to the challenge. for that, count on us!
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2015, the heads of state and government of the union have been unable to agree on a common response to these people seeking refuge on our territory. this lack of agreement is more and more difficult to conceal a de facto agreement which is to make the european union an impenetrable fortress. our governments have, deliberately or by inaction, chosen the policy of repression and violence, preferably at a distance and behind closed doors. this is in violation of the legal commitments they have freely entered into, in particular under the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees and international maritime law. and, full of indignity, even as they flout the law, they choose to shame, even criminalize, ngos who, against all odds, are trying to save the honour of the european union. without any evidence, some governments accuse these ngos of being complicit with human traffickers. on the contrary, it is the union and its member states that are funding a predatory and deadly system. because by handing over the keys to our asylum and migration policies to countries like libya, we are complicit in violence, torture, rape and ransom. libya is a bankrupt state and its so-called coastguards are armed gangs in uniform, uniforms paid for by the european union. in the face of this denial of the values on which the european union is built, we would expect the commission to remind the member states of their responsibilities. mrs johansson, mr schinas, we would like to hear you say to the member states: how long will you continue to delegate your humanitarian responsibility to commercial ships and ngos? when will you obey the law and open the nearest port to save the lives of those in danger on board? when will you understand that the only solution lies in the organisation of safe routes and in a solidarity-based distribution of reception among the member states? and rather than making it an accomplice in this policy of refoulement - i see that you are interested in this, mrs johansson - we would expect you to set up your own agency frontex and ensure that it respects european and international law. instead, what is the commission actually proposing? more of the same. in other words, a timid accompaniment to this collective resignation. meanwhile, the ominous death toll at our borders keeps spinning. and to date, 29,000 people have paid the ultimate price for european cowardice. so, ladies and gentlemen, those who have made europe their fortress for electoral profit, mr bardella, say that they want to defend european civilization in this way. the reality is that you are the grave diggers. because by treating human beings in this way, the european union is undermining the very foundations, starting with the defence of human dignity as a cardinal value. the aggression against ukraine by vladimir putin has enabled the european union to demonstrate that it is capable of playing its full part in welcoming our neighbours in distress. what is lacking in the mediterranean, the balkans and the north sea is not capacity but will.
mr president, we cannot tolerate the tragic shipwrecks of people in the aegean and the mediterranean, with their ships becoming a miserable ball between governments. another best practice of the european union... we are not used to the brutal repression of them, their months-long confinement in prison superstructures and unacceptable conditions at the nails of the circuits. we condemn the exploitation of the turkish bourgeoisie to promote its own demands in competition with the greek bourgeoisie, and we condemn the unacceptable declaration between the european union and turkey. for the european union, all but the ukrainian refugees are illegal immigrants. but the majority of asylum seekers are from afghanistan and syria, countries of equally imperialist wars and interventions. the european union capital is looking for cheap labour. that's why it's called legal immigration. in the face of your conspiracy to intensify repression, deportations, and returns as a policeman to the sinful frontex, we demand asylum services in turkey under the responsibility of the european union and the un with human hospitality and full rights to send the victims of your own wars to their countries of real destination.
mr president, mr minister, mr vice-president, mr commissioner, the fundamental values of european democracy always imply, in all circumstances, respect for human rights. every person, regardless of his or her origin, ethnicity or religion, deserves protection. there is no doubt that such protection requires balanced solutions. and that the challenge of migration and refugees is not done with demagoguery or populism. responsible solutions are needed, with support for the states from which migrants come, to secure the maximum number of people, to combat human trafficking completely, not to encourage it through populist measures, but at the same time to be able to save all the people who reach our shores and to have a mechanism of sharing and solidarity between all the states. it cannot be cyprus, or greece, or italy, or spain, or malta, which have to shoulder the full weight of this humanitarian policy of openness and responsibility. all other states must cooperate. and i would now like to say that it was very good to see that today both s&d and renew and also epp leaders were so constructive today. what i would like to ask you is that when we are drafting legislation, we are capable of this same spirit of cooperation, and then we can deliver and give the council also the sign that we have a responsibility and a humanitarian policy towards these migration costs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. joint solidarity solutions for asylum and rescue at sea let me quote from the universal declaration of human rights: everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution. this principle should be the guiding principle of our debates. border controls in accordance with fundamental and human rights are also part of a functioning schengen area and are binding on the member states. our contracts are clear. the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility must be the guiding principle of border control, asylum and immigration policies. i think that this means in concrete terms that, particularly in the case of rescue at sea, we need a reliable distribution mechanism, clear rules whereby member states support each other instead of accusing each other. a voluntary show of solidarity obviously does not achieve this. it needs legislation, enforced and monitored by a strong commission. the presidency of the council assures that it is working on a concept of solidarity. the council can now show that it not only respects fundamental rights and human rights, but that it is moving forward positively. and i hope that this will be the basis for joint decisions in solidarity on asylum and rescue at sea.
mr president, the debate on search and rescue mechanisms at sea is a bit paradoxical because it is not the right approach. instead of demanding that governments stop putting human lives at risk by putting absurd obstacles to disembarkation and failing to comply with their obligations, especially under international maritime law, we blame ngos for doing what others should do, which is rescuing migrants and asylum seekers at sea and bringing them to safety. and, furthermore, some are dedicated to discrediting them and, in some cases, even suing them, normalizing the irresponsible and immoral discourse of the far right and the far right on migration and asylum issues. these ngos would be happy to stop doing their work on the high seas if there were a public policy to save the lives of migrants and refugees that respected the right to asylum and basic principles such as non-refoulement. but unfortunately, not only is this not the case, but we see how some governments, like the italian one, are trying to introduce selectivism in deciding who can land on their shores and who cannot, in clear contravention of their legal obligations. we are facing a resounding failure of european solidarity: external solidarity, but also internal solidarity between states. we need a european search and rescue mechanism, a european civil operation with proactive involvement of the states to come to the rescue, with a well-defined mandate and in line with current european and international legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, africa is a continent of 1.2 billion people, half a billion of whom live below the poverty line. we are talking about half the world's hungry people, people who, having no future in their own land, are planning to seek their fortunes in europe, convinced by the propaganda of human traffickers that they can find the eldorado. only we eldorados are not, we have a growing poverty and one in five citizens struggling to make ends meet. so to imagine that we are as much a potential destination for half a billion poor africans as the entire population of europe is a crazy and inhuman utopia. that's why we can't afford to outsource our immigration policies to ngos that make "welcome to all" their core business. that is why the states which give them their flag and their funding must take responsibility for their actions. that is why we cannot ignore agreements with the countries of origin for the creation of external hotspots, but also for serious development policies, which allow these people to live with dignity in their own land. it is absurd to think that the solution is simply redistribution, because the problem is not which country should take in the immigrants who come to europe illegally, but to prevent them from arriving in a place that cannot offer them the well-being they hope to find. thanks to the determination of the meloni government and the action plan for the central mediterranean just announced, the european commission is perhaps beginning to grasp what we have been saying for years, namely that the european union is beginning to operate as a community united in defence of its borders and no longer as an employment agency for those who cross them illegally.
mr president, a new far-right government in italy and new illegal closures of italian ports. a government that applies the same neoliberal policies as draghi and that seems to have only one thing left to differentiate itself from the rest: xenophobia. the xenophobia of illegal port closures. what's the big deal? how does the european union respond? calling for new rules for ngos in search and rescue in the mediterranean. look, ngos comply with international maritime law, which is the standard to which they have to submit. what the search and rescue ngos need is to be heard. commissioners, you have them up there, you can talk to them and you can see the work they are doing. they need to not be criminalized or stigmatized for saving lives. because saving lives can never be a crime. and we have to say it more because our migration policy is turning the mediterranean into a great mass grave and what we need to change is precisely that. we need safe passage. we need binding rules on reception. we don't need solidarity with them. we need rights. rights that can be demanded and enforced. and less of the hypocrisy. does anyone think that if the ship that had to disembark in france, and the one that was not allowed to disembark in italy, was carrying ukrainian refugees, someone would have made a problem of it? i'm not sure. it's called xenophobia. you've looked at the color of their skin and not the need of these people. and i think ukraine has been a great example. a great example of how you can do things differently. that there is a capacity to receive, that there are no technical problems, that what is lacking is precisely the political will to be able to receive and to stop turning the mediterranean into this great common grave. what is needed here - as many have said - is less talk and more political will.
mr president, the ocean viking is 234 illegal immigrants, only 23 of them women, housed in a hotel at the expense of the french. 123 have already been denied asylum, but almost all are now free because the french government is unable to deport them. 26 of the 44 so-called isolated miners, who are usually neither, also vanished into the wild. and now, how many of them will commit crimes or crimes in the country that has generously welcomed them? you'll tell me 234 is a drop of water. yes, but a drop in the bucket on top of the 6,400,000 migrants who have come to europe since 2014. more than all of denmark. not to mention the ones who snuck in. macron has not only betrayed france, he has betrayed all of europe. it has become the relay for ngos, who themselves are the relay, sometimes the accomplices, of human traffickers. while italy and malta are holding firm, macron is sending a terrible signal: europe is still giving in and opening up to the migration invasion. there is only one way to stop the flows and therefore the drownings, and that is the australian way. pressure on countries of origin, return of migrants, compel african ports to respect the law of the sea, give themselves the means to deport all illegal immigrants, wage war against smuggling mafias and sanction the complicit ngos. this is how we can collectively meet this challenge of civilisation, with real and genuine political will.
president, we have been warning for months that we are sleepwalking towards a new migration crisis. almost 300 000 people have already crossed our external borders illegally this year. that's the highest number since 2016, the crisis year. but the sad thing is that our european asylum policy is still in 2016, despite all the good proposals from the european commission. but it still doesn't work. so these numbers should be a wake-up call, especially for the migration ministers who are meeting for a crisis summit on friday. only by effectively addressing irregular migration will we maintain the space and support to welcome genuine refugees. this is a european issue, because migration has long ceased to be a national issue. it's hard-nosed geopolitics, you know? in ukraine, the push for refugees to europe is part of putin's strategy. migrants from belarus and turkey are also actively pushed across the border. if we do not want to be the plaything of authoritarian powers, we must be able to decide for ourselves who has access to our territory. then we must be serious in europe about protecting our external borders, including funding physical infrastructure at those borders. then we really need to equip frontex to do its job, finally get eurodac in order and finally complete the european pact on migration, including screening at the external borders. a clear and effective european asylum policy is needed, because it cannot be that in a country like the netherlands the rate of granting asylum applications is inexplicably much higher than in other countries. getting a handle on migration requires determination, and it is high time that we finally showed that.
mr president, vice-president schinas, commissioner johansson, migration, asylum, rescue and relief have one thing in common. they are indeed a european question which requires a european response and there can only be a european response, a european solution, as the title of this debate suggests. it's within our power to give it to you. the new pact on migration and asylum five regulations: we are working on it and we can complete it in this legislature. that's why we've set up the road map. but this parliament has repeatedly endorsed a comprehensive, holistic - we call it - comprehensive view of the problem, including rescue and rescue and legal pathways, legal and safe pathways. rescue and salvage is an obligation of international law, not just of international humanitarian law, of course, but of the international law of the sea codified at montego bay in 1982. and so it cannot be ignored that a member state is breaching its obligations under international law, which is the source of european law, because that is against european law, including safe harbour landings. but that said, there is also, of course, the need to ensure legal channels because it is the best way to save lives at sea. it is true that the mediterranean and the atlantic are indeed mass graves, but so is the sahara desert and therefore the opening of safe routes is a way of dismantling the business model of human traffickers. it is also a way of saving the negative image that has characterized the european union so far. and this is the last point that i would like to share with you. we have to change the way we look at things. this parliament has demanded it. the european union is called the old continent. the threat is not migration. the threat is being an old continent. migration can be part of the solution if we are able to change our perspective and have a more positive attitude, which is what this european parliament is calling for again and again.
mr president, colleagues, the joint parliament and council roadmap gives reason for cautious optimism. it gives us a chance to move forward together. and this parliament, as always, will do everything within its power to deliver before the end of term. but it can only fly if the council takes its responsibility and agrees on an instrument for a truly common european policy. but colleagues it’s not only about policies, it’s also about language. can we please, when we talk about migration, have a bit more temperate and less apocalyptic language, because xenophobic rhetoric has not brought the solution any closer. dehumanising migrants has done nothing to deflect migration flows. it has mainly served to sow division in society and it has created tragedies unworthy of our common values. migration has always existed and it will always exist, and there is a degree of irony in this debate because many of us here in this room, and other colleagues who are elsewhere in the building, have a family history of migration. their parents or grandparents migrated within, to or from europe. let’s keep that in mind. the ukraine refugee crisis has shown that europe is capable of managing big challenges. so let’s draw the lessons from that. be pragmatic. adopt real solutions. because europe can do it.
mr president, every six hours a human being dies at sea trying to reach europe. thousands of people, who have committed no crime, are being held and crammed into refugee camps with their rights suspended. frontex has systematically carried out hot returns at sea. we give away billions of euros to undemocratic regimes to guard our borders. there are miles and miles of the eu's external border without a single physical point to seek asylum. the tragedy in melilla has left dozens dead. all this and more is eu migration policy. it is not an arbitrary plan or the fruit of improvisation. it is a collective and conscious decision to break international and european laws which, if applied, would prevent death and pain. it is an immoral balancing act between macron washing his hands, meloni leaving people adrift at sea, and the commission's proposal to turn the far-right narrative into law. if human rights are a problem, let's change the law so they're not. that is why, on the left, we believe that the business of immigration policy, which is a business of death, must be stopped now and european money put to work in defence of life and rights. in lesbos, melilla, the canary islands, etc., less frontex and less militarization and more resources to promote reception programmes and quality public services and employment for those who are there and for those who arrive. we must have a public and european civil rescue unit for rescuing people at sea, we must provide legal and safe ways so that no one risks his life in search of a dignified future, we must have a binding and solidary distribution of people migrating between all the eu countries to avoid the shame of these detention camps, and finally we must eradicate racism from european migration policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing one migration crisis after another, without being able to find a solution because of a lack of political will. although a european approach is advocated, each country continues to think in intergovernmental terms, focusing on strictly national interests. we have always called for the question of migration to be governed by the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, as provided for in article 80 of the treaty. the dublin regulation must be revised and a mandatory and permanent relocation mechanism must be introduced, as must a european search and rescue operation, because coordination, left to the voluntary discretion of the member states, does not always work. those who, like giorgia meloni, invoked the naval blockade and called the relocation of migrants between all european ports an invasion, have shown that they are only making propaganda, and that they are grossly incompetent. the solution to the migration problem requires a european right of asylum and a centralised system that avoids imposing a disproportionate burden on a few european countries and protects the fundamental rights of migrants.
mr president, the defence of our borders, the defence of our security would not be understood and would not be possible without the hard and self-sacrificing work of our forces and state security bodies. the agents deserve our support, but also reinforcement with more personnel, resources and better protective equipment, as they themselves claim. our security forces cannot be overwhelmed by a lack of agents in the face of mass entry. we must increase european coordination, avoid call-effects, pursue the mafias that exploit the immigration drama with specific plans, both national and european, and also continue to support cooperation and development in third countries. the spanish border is the border of europe. defending ceuta and melilla is defending not only spain, but also the european union. that is why we demand that the spanish government be transparent and tell the truth about what happened at the melilla fence on 24 june. what is pedro sanchez's minister of the interior hiding? it is unacceptable that the minister refuses to go to the european parliament to explain the tragedy of the melilla fence. no transparency or exemplarity. we are facing the government of the obscure. he who is silent, conceals. we citizens deserve to know the truth and we don't deserve a government that lies to us. we are facing another migration crisis. the capacity of the autonomous cities of ceuta and melilla may be overrun. our security forces may suffer more attacks. the european union cannot look the other way. in the face of the flood of migrants, we are all obliged to reach an agreement on the new pact on migration and asylum, always putting the principles of solidarity and responsibility in the forefront. if we don't act now, we will fail.
mr president, commissioners, while frontex is warning that more than 280 000 people have entered the union illegally, you are looking the other way. while every day we hear of a new assault, rape, shooting or murder at the hands of illegal immigrants, you look the other way. you all know that the solution is to secure the external borders and to end the business model of the human trafficking mafias, but you look the other way. it's not ignorance, it's complicity and a cover-up. complicity, because they continue to support those ngos that collaborate with the mafias and give pulses to legitimate governments like that of georgia meloni. and cover-up, because they're trying to perpetuate a system that allows illegal immigrants to evade justice with their doctrine of open borders and their invented concept of the rescued. even the evidence of contacts between these organisations and the mafias to pick up migrants in the waters of third countries such as libya and bring them to europe or their opaque sources of funding does not serve to make this parliament use some common sense and stop attacking those who defend the border. i repeat: safe borders, safe streets; open borders, societies without defence. if you don't know, get out of the way. we are ready and willing.
madam president, madam commissioner, it seems that the single energy market is a building under construction in which it costs an absurd amount to put each brick. the lack of interconnections is the best example and we are far behind the targets set. and that makes it hard to share the benefits that renewables can produce in terms of price and decarbonization. in this crisis, for example, spain and portugal have been protected by the iberian exception. but we would certainly prefer to be interconnected than to continue to be an energy island. we want to help. for example, the agreement on the barmar gas pipeline, which is intended to transport green hydrogen from the iberian peninsula to the rest of europe, seems to us to be a step forward. but let us not forget the citizens, who are the ones who are suffering from the high prices of the bills. i think the commission's proposal will be unworkable. it has not the slightest ambition, that cap on the price of gas is not realistic, it is not real, and it will serve absolutely nothing. so, for this trip, we didn't need these bags, as we say in spain. we are hoping that this proposal will improve, but we must not continue down this road.
madam president, madam commissioner, business confidence has plummeted and a third of the largest companies in europe are planning to stop or reduce their production because of high energy prices. moving towards a single energy market is now more necessary than ever. and to do that we need two things: market reform and interconnections. market interventions are undesirable, but it is even more so to leave citizens helpless and businesses idle. today, we are losing price signals, and we also have the immense challenge of creating an electricity grid that absorbs all the renewable power we will install in the next decade. let's be brave to change what doesn't work. we are late on the interconnections, behind the targets we had and, moreover, it seems that we have not learned anything. we just abandoned midcat and now we're replacing it with a much more expensive project that won't allow us to transport renewable gas or hydrogen until 2030, which is not helping us in the current crisis. commissioner, the task before us is enormous. it is urgent to take action. let us get to work, because our citizens and our businesses cannot wait any longer.
madam president, commissioner, forty years ago, the latin american feminist movement chose november 25 to remember the murder of the mirabal sisters. and every year since then, we have been reminded of the multiple forms of violence suffered by women around the world. in poland, justyna, a victim of institutional violence, was convicted for helping those who needed to terminate their pregnancies safely. in el salvador, lesly ramirez, sentenced to fifty years in prison for a miscarriage. in spain, maría sevilla, a victim of vicarious violence, one of the protective mothers convicted for denouncing the sexual violence suffered or suffered by her sons and daughters, or beatriz zimmermann, mother of olivia and anna, murdered by her father and thrown into the sea. in the czech republic, elena gorolavá, one of the roma women who have been subjected to forced sterilisation in various european countries. in mexico, debanhi escobar, femicide, missing for months, who was finally found murdered in a cistern. in afghanistan, helena hofiany, judge, now a refugee, who risked her life fighting misogynist fundamentalism. in iran, mahsa amini, tortured to death for not wearing the veil properly. for all of them, for all of the women and girls tortured, raped, slaughtered, murdered in every corner of the world, always standing, always fighting.
madam president, think of three women among your mothers, aunts, daughters or coworkers. one of them has been or will be physically or sexually assaulted. the image is chilling. just a year ago in this house, a majority voted to include gender-based violence in the list of european crimes. still, we keep waiting. the intention to move forward is clear on the part of parliament. but we need, or rather demand, that the commission and the council do their part. without a shared strategy between the various institutions, we will not be able to move forward with the urgency that the situation requires. we value the commission's proposal for a directive, but we must be more ambitious. because if we want to combat all forms of violence - physical, sexual, economic, emotional, obstetrical, psychological - we have to go a little further. the challenge is enormous and time is short because what is at stake is our lives. we have no choice but to move forward with giant steps.
in writing. for the socialists, a european law against gender-based violence is indispensable, a homogeneous european legislation that will make it possible to make progress in the eradication of the scourge that is gender-based violence, ranging from the prevention and protection of women to the punishment of the aggressors. it is essential to have a common definition and data on violence against women, so that it can be measured and combated. equality and the fight against gender-based violence is a commitment that is put into practice with will, policies and budgets. it is put into practice with will, policies and budgets.
in writing. for the socialists, a european law against gender-based violence is indispensable, a homogeneous european legislation that will make it possible to make progress in the eradication of the scourge that is gender-based violence, ranging from the prevention and protection of women to the punishment of the aggressors. it is essential to have a common definition and data on violence against women, so that it can be measured and combated. equality and the fight against gender-based violence is a commitment that is put into practice with will, policies and budgets.
in writing. for the socialists, a european law against gender-based violence is indispensable, a homogeneous european legislation that will make it possible to make progress in the eradication of the scourge that is gender-based violence, ranging from the prevention and protection of women to the punishment of the aggressors. it is essential to have a common definition and data on violence against women, so that it can be measured and combated. equality and the fight against gender-based violence is a commitment that is put into practice with will, policies and budgets.
in writing. for the socialists, a european law against gender-based violence is indispensable, a homogeneous european legislation that will make it possible to make progress in the eradication of the scourge that is gender-based violence, ranging from the prevention and protection of women to the punishment of the aggressors. it is essential to have a common definition and data on violence against women, so that it can be measured and combated. equality and the fight against gender-based violence is a commitment that is put into practice with will, policies and budgets.
in writing. for the socialists, a european law against gender-based violence is indispensable, a homogeneous european legislation that will make it possible to make progress in the eradication of the scourge that is gender-based violence, ranging from the prevention and protection of women to the punishment of the aggressors. it is essential to have a common definition and data on violence against women, so that it can be measured and combated. equality and the fight against gender-based violence is a commitment that is put into practice with will, policies and budgets.
in writing. for the socialists, a european law against gender-based violence is indispensable, a homogeneous european legislation that will make it possible to make progress in the eradication of the scourge that is gender-based violence, ranging from the prevention and protection of women to the punishment of the aggressors. it is essential to have a common definition and data on violence against women, so that it can be measured and combated. equality and the fight against gender-based violence is a commitment that is put into practice with will, policies and budgets.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr bek, commissioner sinkevičius, i always like to make it clear that we are not only facing a climate crisis, but also a biodiversity crisis, that is, a crisis of extinction, of species disappearing. the planet is warming, but not only that, species are disappearing. i was pleased to hear commissioner sinkevičius speak. because i was going to ask you a question, but you've only partly answered it. why are we going to montreal? why are we going to montreal in two or three weeks? and it is true, we are going because we want to get an agreement that is both binding and ambitious. with protection recovery targets of at least 30% by 2030, which also includes concrete targets, indicators, deadlines so that we can meet. we must therefore lead the conference in a binding global agreement on biodiversity. in connection with this subject i shall quickly refer to the law of nature's restoration: at the same time we must conserve and restore, by 2030, at least 30% of the land, of the oceans, of the ecosystems. so, ladies and gentlemen, for those of us here this evening, this parliament must help, not hinder. so that remains, because it is a very important regulation. and a few last words for the foundation of everything - as the marquis of the ensenada said, "the foundation of everything is money", and it's true. i like to hear the european commission, including minister bek, but especially the european commission, talk about funding, because we need a concrete funding mechanism to protect and conserve biodiversity. so i think if we want to ensure ambitious levels of nature restoration, we need funding. so, ladies and gentlemen, ambition, a global agreement and funding.
in writing. the latest ipbes report warns that biodiversity is declining at an unprecedented rate globally, and the rate of species extinction is accelerating, as well as the likelihood of severe impacts on people worldwide. in this context, the global agreement for nature to be adopted at the cop15 of the convention on biological diversity in montreal is the opportunity we have to change course to achieve a just and equitable future and healthy and resilient ecosystems. we therefore call for that global framework for biodiversity to be binding, as is the paris agreement, with specific targets and indicators, with deadlines for compliance, with a robust implementation mechanism and a review mechanism, and with binding global targets for the recovery and protection of at least 30% of our lands and oceans by 2030. we also believe that the ambition of the agreement must be accompanied by sufficient funding for its implementation, and we therefore call for the restoration of degraded ecosystems and the protection of biodiversity to be adequately budgeted.
mr president, commissioner, we know that the development scenario is becoming more and more difficult and it will be more and more difficult to achieve the objectives of agenda 2030. it is therefore urgent to create an effective development finance architecture with monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to measure its impact. we are doing a lot, but we do not know the real impact, for example, in latin america, where we see that china is increasingly present, also in terms of development. in order to make the global gateway a reality and not just a european declaration of intent, the european investment bank, together with national banks and the european bank for reconstruction and development, must play a key role in this financial architecture, but they must be coordinated. that is why we are asking you, commissioner, to lead this coordination. the incorporation of the private sector, regulated and supervised from the public, is increasingly necessary, because we cannot cover everything from official development aid alone. leverage can be a solution, but it must have clear monitoring mechanisms. we need innovative funding. it has the support of this parliament, as it is already getting in the field of humanitarian aid, to work on the line of innovative financing.
president. - mr president, more than 150 years after wolves were exterminated in large parts of europe by hunting rifles and by loss of habitat, some wolves have found their way back to the netherlands. that's good news for our nature. they're also beautiful animals. today we were able to see the first images of puppies playing in drenthe. really great! nevertheless, some farmers, hunters, and their political mouthpieces are calling for the wolves to be killed again after their arduous return. they talk about the emotional damage to farmers when their sheep are killed by a wolf. when an animal is found dead, it is indeed terrible. but why do we slaughter 60 million sheep in europe every year, often unstunned? and why do we drag hundreds of thousands of sheep to north africa and the middle east under heartbreaking conditions? i wish those who say we must protect sheep from the wolf would join us in fighting to protect sheep from man. the party for the animals welcomes the wolf. we are more concerned about the danger of the livestock industry to the survival of thousands of animal and plant species than we are about the danger of a single animal species to the livestock industry. it is particularly important to maintain and strengthen nature protection at a time when economic activities are far beyond the limits of nature. i also believe that european agricultural subsidies should be abolished.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a reality that cannot be disputed. today, farmers across the european union are affected by the presence of large predators. whole regions, especially in the mountains, are simply abandoned as a result of the destruction of farms by wild animals. tourism in various areas is also affected and many places are no longer frequented by tourists for fear of wolves or bears. there are about 13,000 bears in romania, and incidents are becoming more frequent. mountain towns are increasingly frequented by bears, and on school playgrounds the presence of the bear is a frightening reality. the habitats directive has achieved its objectives with regard to wolves and bears and the european commission should consider immediate revision to make its provisions more flexible. for those of you in the european commission and the european parliament who are resisting the revision of this directive, i ask you to go to the mountain pastures to see what the wolf or the bear attack means and to appreciate with your own senses what it is like to be in the vicinity of these animals. all those who today cry out for the pity of the great predators ask you to look the farmers in the eye and explain to them that the lives of wild animals are more important than their lives and their work. i also invite you to talk to the 269 people in romania who have been maimed by bears in the last four years, and to talk to the children of the 29 people who were killed by bears in the same period.
mr president, carnivores and especially the wolf play a very important ecological role, as they provide key ecosystem services. this animal has always done so, until human pressure brought it to the brink of extinction and that's why its protection has been fundamental. the habitats directive has no other explanation. that's the one. but it is true: their reintroduction into areas where they have been absent for many years is evidence of the problems of coexistence between humans and these animals in rural areas. this is why greater prevention, mitigation and compensation measures for farmers are needed. in short, we must ensure a balanced coexistence, without avoiding the impact they have on extensive livestock farming, but without ever, ever, undermining the protection status of large carnivores and also of the wolf. the joint resolution we have agreed, as it stands, without any amendments or last-minute fixes, is a good agreement for this house to resolve this problem. i believe that we must also face this reality with agreements and without introducing elements of division and polarization.
mr president, after those very clear words of commissioner lenarčič – thank you very much for them – i would like to address those who want to introduce changes in the habitats directive or its annexes. the amendments are not justified from both a conservative and a legal point of view. the habitat directive does not envisage any rule or automatic mechanism according to which as soon as a species achieves favourable conservation status, its protection status would be lowered. because if you applied that logic, the species would decline rapidly again, and all the effort to protect it and all the public money spent on that would have to start from scratch again. and this doesn’t seem very logical. some species are subject to a very high level of human-caused mortality, especially because of poaching. so colleagues, as we know, and we just heard it, the existing possibility under article 16 of the habitats directive to manage wolf and bear populations is necessary. the commission guidelines need to be clarified, commissioner, and this is also in our resolution, so please vote for it with no amendments. it includes most of our expectations.
mr president, no, it is not true that the wolf is an endangered animal. in europe, 21,500 have been recorded this year alone. but what is true is that the farmers are unprotected and are being ruined by these attacks that do not stop. they are therefore calling for protection, more fair compensation covering both direct and indirect damage, and of course more thorough control of the wolf population. either we protect our farmers or they can't continue to run their farms. of course we know that this conflict is a social conflict. but you know what? the cattle have to be safe, the wolves, on the reservations, so that the ranchers can be at ease and can continue their farms. and let me insist on that. the wolf is not endangered, but, at the rate we're going, the ranchers are.
mr president, the wolf situation in europe is very serious. the exponential growth of this predator has increased attacks on livestock and even humans. and in spain the situation is even worse. a purely ideological and radical decision by the sánchez government has restricted the hunting of the species north of the douro river. the wolf population has soared that in galicia alone, which represents barely 5% of the spanish surface, there are three times as many wolves as in all of france. the disaster is threefold: economic, because each sheep killed by a wolf adds to the diminishing income of the farmers; social, because more and more farmers are abandoning grazing and thus increasing rural depopulation; and environmental, because depopulation is leading to the abandonment of thousands of hectares of forest, which has increased the risk of fire. if we want to preserve the future of the rural world, we must put an end to the ecological ideological blindness in spain and in europe and ensure a balanced and consensual coexistence.
madam president, commissioner, digitalisation opens up a great many opportunities for europeans, including their territories, but it can also create exclusion and increase inequalities, which we must certainly combat from the point of view of public policies and also with greater democratic participation. this roadmap for the digital decade 2030 aims to strengthen european digital sovereignty, which is undoubtedly an essential element to ensure our resilience and also our strategic autonomy. i am particularly pleased to see the final agreement include the need to ensure basic digital skills and an increase in those targets for 80% of people, and thus enable citizens to have the basic skills needed to fully participate in the digital society and eventually achieve broad digital literacy. i am particularly pleased, and it has been a very great effort on the part of our group, the socialists and democrats, that there are specific support measures to overcome the serious gender imbalance, since only one in six specialists in information and communication technology, and only one in three graduates in stem, that is to say in science, technology, engineering and mathematics, are women. and finally, there is also the regional variable, since no region can be left behind in this digital progress.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the political priorities of this european commission, of this european parliament, is undoubtedly the digital decade. a digital decade that not only serves as a transformation engine, but this roadmap to the digital decade by 2030 puts on the horizon real problems that we have today in the european union. and i want to focus mainly on three of them, which we must be able to tackle in a coordinated way and, above all, looking for results by 2030. they are related to bridging the digital divide. men now occupy eight out of ten jobs in the telecommunications sector in the european union. therefore, women are still excluded from those jobs related to digitisation. but it is not just a problem of women, it is also a problem of smes. in the european union we have a low participation of smes in digitisation and we must, as the european union, bet on them. but above all, i also want to focus on a transcendent element: the rural world. we cannot continue to create two europeans at two speeds: the rural world and the big cities. so this digital itinerary has a clear objective: to bridge gaps. and our task as the european parliament is undoubtedly to make it as effective as possible and, above all, to make it a reality by the year 2030.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, commissioner, this european year of youth has put our institutions in front of the mirror and, unfortunately, we do not like everything that the mirror reflects back to us. young people continue to face precariousness and an often difficult transition to working life. the impacts of the pandemic, the recent war in ukraine, the rising cost of living, energy poverty and a climate emergency that makes it difficult to imagine a future have only contributed to worsening the already critical mental health situation of our girls and adolescents. being a young woman, being a young person from the lgbtq+ community, being a young migrant, young refugee, young person with disabilities or several of these things at once, poses great challenges as is the fact of having fewer opportunities. but to sum up, i would say that this year has left us with good news, a lesson and several challenges. the good news is, for example, that this debate allows us to name problems that have often been relegated to the margins and to put young people at the centre of the agenda. the lesson: a european year that does not prepare in advance can hardly set solid objectives and achieve ambitious targets. and the challenges: we have to realise what we have been asking for in this parliament, namely a common framework to ensure fair remuneration for traineeships, accessibility to stigma-free mental health care and, ultimately, but perhaps most importantly, involving and listening to young people in the preparation of all european policies and also in the evaluation of their impact. in short, we need to push for structural changes to build a european political system that is more inclusive of young people, anti-racist, free of discrimination and gender-based violence. we need mechanisms and policies which reflect positively the position and role of young people as active members of society. during the european year of youth we have called for the voices of young people to be placed at the centre and now we call for these voices to remain.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. they say there's magic in every beginning. and i think that's the same with life, actually. because i would say, looking back on myself, the first ten years felt so much longer than the last ten years that i've been on this planet. that is why i think it is extremely important to focus on young people - that is to say, there was the european year of youth, which was a super good idea, even if nobody knew about it, there was no money for it and no laws for young people were put in place. the european year of youth is in danger of simply disappearing, as the bird of the year - the ostrich - has. and that's exactly what we have to prevent. the european year of youth, this must now simply be the starting point for a very clear focus on youth, and i think the commission is already on a fairly good track and has really also understood that in order to create happy people on this continent, it is of course important to create the happiness of young people. but as i said, there's a lot of work to be done. we need a ban on unpaid internships - that's been raised so many times. we need to do something about the mental health of our young people, because it's a huge problem across the continent. we must of course extend the european year of youth so that people on this continent can really get a taste of it. and i would also like to ask you to create digital formats for youth participation in our democratic processes so that the barriers are lowered. (the speaker agrees to reply to a question by means of a 'blue card' procedure.)
reply to a verbal message under the 'blue card' procedure. what is of course the most important thing is that the basis for young people to continue to exist on this planet is created, which means that the mitigation of the climate crisis must of course be the absolute, highest priority, because this is of course the biggest threat to young people. if we think about it, if we continue to emit carbon as we have been doing, then in 100 years, this planet will be insanely uninhabitable. that's the first thing. then there are many other projects that really create perspectives for young people and open up those perspectives. these are offers to travel, these are offers to get to know the continent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the social dimension of the single market.
madam president, young people of europe: brussels is proclaiming a european year of youth, but it is telling you that you will not own anything. others have decided what you have to do, think, feel, live or decide until 2030. never in history has the youth been condemned to live a more miserable life than that of their parents. work hard, study hard, work hard and don't accept the crumbs of their cultural bonds. it's their world that's in ruins, not yours. it's their agenda that forces you to share the car, the house or the job, not yours. you are young and have every right to live in danger and recklessness don't eat meat, don't drink wine, don't have a stable job, don't enjoy prosperity in the place where you were born. forge strong bonds with your parents and grandparents. culture and tradition. your shared history, which is the nation. burn everything that is provisional. audacity and courage to conquer the permanent. they'll accuse you of being young and tell you that enthusiasm doesn't change things. but i assure you, if your illusions are overwhelmed, you will know how to drag in all those who want to mortgage your future. safe streets, strong families, stable jobs and a homeland that protects you.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a year for young people was a necessity. the question now is whether we should continue to work for our young people. this year has highlighted how resourceful and innovative our young people are. i was a teacher yesterday, i saw him every day. as a member of parliament today, i would like to encourage more of their initiative and creativity. our priority is to step up our responses to improve inclusion, education for all, the fight against poverty and mental health. we must train our young people better everywhere and continue to make europe an area of knowledge. the european guarantees for children and young people must be more visible and more aggressively communicated. we must encourage mobility for our young people, especially those in our outermost regions, so that they can explore the world, other territories, other cultures and other languages. erasmus+ is the most relevant instrument. to make citizenship a reality so that in 2024 our young people will vote massively in the european elections and become involved in a lasting way in european democracy. this is my roadmap for the legacy of this year of youth so that every young person, without distinction, has the place they deserve in our society.
member of the commission. madam president, thank you all for this interesting debate, for your support and commitment to advancing the european youth agenda. i would also like to thank the many young people who are taking part in these debates and the older people who are accompanying them. a word to say that, since the activities of the year have been implemented in a spirit of co-creation, as you know, which means collaboration, of course, between the eu institutions, stakeholders, national coordinators and young people, the definition of the legacy of the european year of youth also implies a collective effort. as announced, the commission will assess the results and potential of the initiatives, and will propose ideas for a future more comprehensive, more intersectoral, more inclusive approach to youth participation. in particular, as part of the follow-up to the conference on the future of europe, the commission wants to involve young people in policy-making through their systematic participation in citizens' panels, as well as by paying particular attention to the impact of new policies on the younger generation. the european year of youth mobilized public authorities at all levels - european, national, regional and local. thanks to grants awarded by the commission, some countries, such as germany, ireland and finland, have introduced microfinance grants to youth groups or to youth sector actors. as regards the call for an extension of the year. the work will of course continue beyond 2022 and we will continue to implement initiatives for young people and integrate a youth component into existing initiatives. we will also keep the activity map on the european youth portal open at least until the end of may 2023, so that stakeholders and national coordinators can still organise activities in the first half of next year. similarly, it can be said that the voice platform will in turn remain available, allowing young people to continue to express their vision. the commission, i want to say here, is looking forward to the year of skills 2023 to enable more support for young people to get better training and prepare them for the realities of the labour market. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentarians, the european institutions and the member states have jointly committed themselves to the european year of youth 2022 and, in a way, created it together. as the year comes to an end and we take stock of it, we will therefore, i repeat, work together to develop a plan on how the legacy of this year can and should be perpetuated. the commission looks forward to this prospect and to continuing our cooperation for the future of young people.
i have received a motion for a resolution1 pursuant to rule 132 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 24 november 2022. the following table is added: see the minutes. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the european year of youth was designed to focus on young people, especially in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic. more and better opportunities must be provided to them and they must be heard, because they are the future of europe. i consider it important that young people are actively involved in public life and that the young generation is involved in social debates, in shaping youth policy and in making certain policy decisions, and that the voice of young people is heard in the eu institutions. unfortunately, in recent years, young people's trust in the eu institutions has been shaken, and they have developed the impression that the eu's central bodies are not interested in citizens and that initiatives from below are being swept off the table, as in the case of the minority safepack. young people also expect the eu to take action to help their future, especially in the areas of security, education and job creation, rather than fighting ideological battles. the role of communities and values is especially valued today. youth organisations play a significant role in this, and their role is to build and shape communities. i also consider it very important that investing in young people's learning opportunities has a direct impact not only on the future of young people as individuals, but also on the economic health and cohesion of society as a whole.
in writing. – some 72% of young individuals considered that the most important success factor of the european year of youth would be if their demands would be better listened to by decision-makers. for this, we called for eyy outcomes to be mainstreamed across all related eu policies and we proposed to introduce a youth test by which we can measure the impact of all actions and policies on youth and the next generations. access to quality and inclusive education, developing civic education modules, as well as youth entrepreneurship and environmental education are key points that we must act upon. at the same time, young people from vulnerable categories should be better supported in order for them to have a decent standard of living and more opportunities in regards to education, skills and labour. as s&d rapporteur on the eu budget, we obtained 8 million additional euro for the european year of youth in 2022, 123 million euro for erasmus+ in the 2023 budget and requested financial allocations for the follow-up activities of the eyy. with almost 2000 youth activities organized in romania, for example, i strongly believe we have to ensure continuity and coherence in our approach so that we can deliver on our commitments towards the young generation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday afternoon i hosted an event of civil society organisations. we received the boycott from deputies and assistants. this is not in keeping with the pluralism that deserves to be respected in this institution. we assume that steps will be taken to guarantee democracy in this area.
madam president, simply after hearing the words of the chairman of the left group, or her representative, we are absolutely free to carry out any act of political boycott of events taking place in this parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, a clinician with a ventilator that gives 12 breaths per minute and a breathing volume of 0.7 wants to achieve 8.4 litres in one minute. this means it's accurate. and that's what the sanitary products regulation that came into force in 2017 was about, namely that sanitary products should not fail. not one. and we know that there were cases where that was the case - the commissioner mentioned that. there were, for example, breast implants that failed, hip replacements... that's what happened. therefore, this regulation has been a good regulatory framework to improve the reliability of medical devices. we also believe that it is more transparent and fair. moreover, health-care professionals and doctors have recognized this too. because all we want is reliability. during the pandemic, we also worked on the regulation to strengthen the european medicines agency, in which we also included elements that favour the availability of health devices, especially in crisis situations. but we must also consider that we have several legislative tools. of course, we must assess whether, following the entry into force of this regulation, there are some cases of medical devices for which there is a risk of shortages, particularly in rare diseases or paediatric diseases (in paediatric treatments). and it may be necessary to make certain derogations, as has already been done previously. we'll have to study it on a case-by-case basis. but i don't think we should make this legislation any softer and have any less confidence in what we use to measure or treat patients, to measure their physical variables and the treatments we apply. as mentioned by peter liese earlier, there may be other factors (the supply chain has been disrupted, some of the production was not based in europe...). we may have to act on those factors, locate them, put a solution to them and act on that. not so much about the legislation. i therefore think it is right that the commissioner has, among other things, proposed to study with the member states what is happening. but i think we should avoid statements such as that this regulation is making the health care of patients in the european union worse. i do not think that this regulation is the cause. adjustments will have to be made, improvement procedures will have to be established and solutions will have to be sought. but what we need, above all, is a high reliability and trustworthiness in healthcare devices.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. madam president, the title of this report towards equal rights for people with disabilities is an honest title, because doing is a preposition that indicates and marks the movement towards somewhere in relation to an objective. and we really have that goal, which is equality, but we're not there. we are sometimes de jure, but not de facto. the reality is that there is no such equality. we've checked it out here today. there's no such thing as equality. equality, at its core, is a goal we're always pursuing. for all of us. but our disabled fellow citizens especially need it. we as members of parliament have an obligation. this parliament must commit itself to a clear idea: all rights for all citizens in all countries of the european union. so that what is de jure becomes de facto in all the countries of the european union. there can be no exceptions of countries in the pursuit of equality, because equality is something that defines us as europeans. and that quest i hope that one day we will stop going towards it, to really be in a society equal for everyone everywhere.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner, in europe there are 137 million people living in rural areas, 30% of our population. thanks to those people we eat, drink and breathe. we all stand on his shoulders. without them there is no food sovereignty, no energy autonomy, no fight against climate change. without them, there's nothing. it doesn't matter what we program here. however, the territorial gap they suffer from is tremendous: lack of public services, from sanitation to schools or health centers; digital gap; gender gap; lack of mobility; poor working conditions and lack of income. everything they produce ends up costing them more. add to that the challenges they have faced for decades: desertification, depopulation and megaprojects that grab land, suck up resources and generate waste. i'm from llerena, a town south of badajoz, spain. a small place where you fight every day to keep a county hospital open. there are other similar peoples who are rising up against giant landfills, open-pit mines, mega solar parks on fertile land or the draining of their marshes. that's called investing. we stand by the continuing delusions of grandeur that breed in big cities and in offices like these. ecocidal, homicidal and suicidal delusions. because it's irrational, as well as unfair, to look down on those who tread the earth, grow the food we eat, maintain our aquifers, and care for our roots. it's time to recognize the countryside for what it does for us, to value it and pay for it. we should thank him for just existing, for being, for being and, above all, for enduring. their survival is our survival. we took a step today.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. this long-term vision for rural areas was both expected and necessary and represents a unique opportunity to put rural areas at the centre of the european agenda. the green deal and the pandemic have revealed the potential of rural europe to achieve a new, more sustainable economic model, with renewable energy production, making use of the circular economy and innovation, and thus playing an active role in the green and digital transitions to which the european union aspires. but to realise this potential, the challenges they present must be addressed, so that they serve to retain and attract people who want to enjoy the quality of life in rural areas. we are talking about infrastructure, connectivity, quality services and, of course, employment opportunities. opportunities that go beyond agriculture. new forms of work, new technologies, which must also involve women and young people and thus curb depopulation. this requires a rural pact with the commitment of all and instruments such as the rural verification mechanism to assess the impact of european policies on rural areas.
madam president, madam commissioner, fortunately for all of us, the pandemic is more a thing of the past than of the present. unfortunately, not for the airline industry, which, like other sectors of our economy, is still suffering the consequences. the financial situation of airlines is currently very delicate and, in view of this situation, some airlines have asked the european commission to have greater access to international capital. this is a vital issue for industry, because it can recover from the crisis and pay back the debt it has accumulated during this time, make the necessary investments to decarbonise the sector and also continue to ensure a connected europe. aviation is therefore the only sector in europe that has restrictions on access to international capital that stem from rules created in the 1940s globally, when aviation was very different from the aviation we see today. for this reason, these restrictions have no positive impact on the consumer, the companies and their workers, or the economy as a whole. a recent economic report suggests that better access to international capital could save up to 15 000 jobs in times of crisis and have an impact on the eu economy of around €3 billion. there is therefore no reason, madam commissioner, why we should not revise this regulation immediately and, in this case, so that we do not turn the past into the present.
madam president, madam commissioner, the aviation sector faces many challenges affecting passengers, workers, companies and, of course, the environment and the connectivity of europe. covid-19 has practically paralysed the sector, reducing air traffic to a minimum, with restrictions on mobility, affects on connectivity and also on competitiveness. thousands of people were dismissed from their jobs (airport staff, self-employed cabin crew, who are often fake self-employed), leaving them without a contract, without social security. when the situation for the sector began to improve, it turned out that it was not prepared to cope with all the demand and the dismissed staff were not willing to return under the same conditions. the result? the chaos we've been living through this summer: delays, cancellations, lost luggage and many claims and social discontent; passengers who began to wonder if they should take another flight if the situation didn't improve. we are currently facing an accelerated recovery of the sector which must not be at odds with being, above all, a responsible recovery. it is essential to restore the connection with all the territories, especially the islands and the outermost regions. we must do so in an environmentally sustainable way, reducing emissions as much as possible, increasing the use of alternative fuels and focusing on research. but it also has to be done with social responsibility. we must take advantage of this crucial moment for aviation to ensure optimal working conditions which will undoubtedly also benefit aviation safety, without forgetting that passenger rights must also be guaranteed. commissioner, as you can see, there are many challenges ahead for aviation. i was pleased to hear him speak about social dialogue, working conditions, passenger rights, even safety. but we have been waiting for a long time for the revision of regulation (ec) no 1008/2008 and asking for it. when's that review?
madam president, today begins an evidentiary hearing to assess whether or not a diplomat enjoys diplomatic immunity. that is, there is a new contempt on the part of the united states for international norms and diplomacy as the basis of international relations. on june 12, 2020, the united states maneuvered for cabo verde to detain the venezuelan diplomat alex saab. a diplomat who, despite the economic war that venezuela is suffering, got his people to have medicines and fuel during the pandemic, when it was most needed. a person who was appointed a full member of the social table over a year ago. in response to which the united states brought him illegally into its territory. today, his trial begins, and it concerns all of us: it is a trial which involves the violation of international law and the abandonment of the vienna convention on diplomatic relations. we cannot afford that, especially in the current context of the rise of warmongering. we are defending diplomacy as a way to peace and we are demanding the immediate release of the diplomat alex nain saab.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr president, if the climate emergency requires renewable energy to mitigate the effects of climate change, the energy crisis requires renewable energy to contain the bills of citizens and to make us independent of russian fuels. therefore, accelerating the administrative clearances is vital; without accelerating them, the climate targets are an empty promise. this report sets out the instruments to deal with this problem. first, spatial planning and the identification of areas with low environmental impact not all the territory is valid in this sense. secondly, the shortening of deadlines and also self-consumption or re-potentiation. and finally, take account of all the parties involved in the areas of implementation. but i repeat that the acceleration of permits must go hand in hand with social participation. these facilities should generate benefits for local communities and take into account pre-existing activities and also the local labour and industrial potential. we must also be scrupulous about environmental assessment. we must not confuse acceleration with removing the protection of the territories. that would be a blow to the public conscience; it is a real risk if we do not take account of some of the amendments tabled. this report contains very important improvements for renewable acceleration and for citizen involvement. but we can and must go further. i humbly ask you to support our amendment number six, which improves citizen participation. we must also maintain a civil dialogue in this house, not break agreements, as one of the rapporteurs has done, by blowing up an agreement we had in place. in short, more renewables means less russian gas, less fossil fuels, more climate commitment, lower prices for citizens. in the end, we all win if we draw up a good directive.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, commissioner timmermans, the ecosocial crisis is undoubtedly pushing us to update the renewable energy directive, of course to displace fossil fuels, to lower the price of the electricity bill and, of course, also to strengthen the eu's energy autonomy. but obviously, that won't be enough. in addition, the deployment of renewable energy sources must be combined with a reduction in energy consumption and a model that advances in terms of fairness and public participation. indeed, if the current energy crisis has shown anything, it is that rising prices are a consequence of, among other factors, the failed market model 'the marginalist market', the lack of public control and the lack of planning. we certainly believe that progress in accelerating renewable projects for distributed generation, self-consumption and energy communities, as well as establishing elements of public planning and zoning, are positive elements of this directive, as is the commitment to strengthen the resources of public administrations. however, we are concerned that this directive will not contribute to changing the energy model and will introduce elements which will be conflicting, such as positive administrative silence, which will increase previous problems of spatial planning, or the formulation of the general public interest which, as it appears, seems to be more related to the particular business interest. i hope we will be able to improve this directive with intelligence and determination.
madam president, commissioner timmermans, accelerating the deployment of renewables is a matter of survival in the european union. and eliminating bottlenecks and streamlining administrative procedures in the granting of permits must be a priority. the repowereu plan is the answer. today, a solar project can take up to four years to get approved; a wind project, up to ten. this is unacceptable in the current crisis. but beware, this cannot be done at any price. simplification: yes, but respecting environmental standards and, of course, without turning our backs on local authorities who now see how renewable macro-projects are decided without their participation. priority areas should be identified and land with no environmental value and degraded land in industrial facilities should be used. repowereu must also be the mechanism to modernise obsolete installations, to encourage self-consumption and also to give decisive support to biomethane as a local renewable energy source, which provides jobs and industry in our rural areas.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, thank you, ms yenbou, for your leadership in this report. it's been a pleasure working with you. i am responsible for the opinion of the afet committee and therefore inevitably the subject is our european cultural diplomacy, the external aspects of the report. the weakness of our european cultural diplomacy is a deficit that must be corrected. the european cultural identity in the world cannot be an inarticulate accumulation of what our great national cultural institutions - the cervantes institute, the goethe institute, the alliance française - do. what is our common label in the world? what is the united face we offer when we boast of our european way of life? of course, our european culture is made up of a set of vibrant and strong national cultures. but just as we have built common symbolic elements which have not displaced national symbolic elements, we can do the same with our culture and our cultural presence in the world, which must also be the vehicle of our values and principles. let us therefore adopt a new toolbox for cultural diplomacy based on support for the cultural sectors of the countries with which we are in contact.
mr president, commissioner, the european union's political priorities in the cultural field must first and foremost be to give culture the central place it deserves. in this sense, we are glad that we have this particular debate, and that we have it now and not at the last item on the agenda, as often happens when we talk about culture in this house. in the field of cultural policy, we have a lot of work ahead of us. the status of the artist is a priority, contributing to better working conditions and remuneration for all cultural workers. and so is pushing a model of culture that recognizes that women, migrants, people of color, lgbtq+ are not only receivers, but also active creators of culture. but cultural policies must be open and democratic, not only in europe but also in its external project. the european union cannot relate to the world from a eurocentric or neo-colonial model, because culture is just the opposite: it is about building bridges, transforming power relations and contributing to creative ways of tackling collective challenges.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, mr commissioner, although the european child guarantee was established in june 2021, it has not been fully implemented and its budget allocation is not adequate. we have almost 18 million poor children in europe. twenty-two percent don't eat breakfast before school, and many eat just because they go to school. we are talking about defending children, but for the next five years alone we would be short of at least 20 billion more euros. money turns good intentions into good deeds. without a budget, those intentions are not even credible. spain is one of the four countries in the union with the highest rates of poverty and risk of social exclusion and the pandemic has exacerbated inequalities. in the cañada real area of madrid alone, for example, more than 1 800 children live without electricity and have been cold for years. that is why it is so important that our government has already approved the state action plan for the implementation of the european child guarantee, a plan that sets out measures for children and adolescents, so that they can access six basic rights: to education and care from the first years of their life, to education and extracurricular activities, to at least one healthy meal per school day, to health care, to adequate housing and to healthy food. our children are not just guarantees and tools of the future; they are real, complete people living their own present. and just as our future depends on them, their present depends on us today. we just have to do our part.
mr president, commissioner schmit, minister, the pandemic, putin's war and what this war has meant for the rising cost of living are putting the strength of our social protection systems at risk. and what are the most direct consequences? unacceptably high levels of poverty and inequality in europe and especially among children from the most vulnerable households. if we want to break the cycle of intergenerational poverty - because it is an intergenerational problem - we must strengthen social protection for children and adolescents and universalise social rights through access to and enjoyment of inclusive, quality essential services. we must make universal services such as health care, which in some regions is being dismantled. but this will not be possible if we do not have an adequate budget to finance this european child guarantee, either by increasing the resources of the european social fund plus or by creating a specific programme, as has already been done in the past with other programmes, to find a solution. children are the present and the future. it is time to rise to the occasion; the europe of opportunity starts in childhood.
mr president, commissioner, the qatar gate reports are serious, especially because they undermine the very foundation on which any democracy is based: the people's trust. because there is something we can never forget: all of us are here, in this room, for the same and only reason, because we have received the trust of the citizens. the image of security forces seizing briefcases with hundreds of thousands of euros from political leaders and workers of this house, not only embarrasses us as an institution, but deeply disgusts us. we must be ruthless. let's start a commission of inquiry. we are setting up an independent ethics body to investigate all the european institutions. we prohibit donations from third countries to political parties and members of the european parliament and we introduce a transitional period for former members who leave their seats, in order to ensure that they do not use their influence for purposes such as we have seen in this case. zero tolerance for corruption. zero tolerance for the corrupt.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, today we can decide whether we want to respect international law or whether we prefer to make a new toast to the sun. we must not forget that the palestinian people are the victims of the israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza, and that the israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza is the victims of the israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza. big words are as empty and sterile as actions. the criminal israeli regime arrests and murders palestinian children every day and carries out a systematic policy of ethnic cleansing and apartheid against a people who only want to live in dignity on their land. and while the european union rewards it with a preferential association agreement, it allows it to participate in programmes such as horizon plus or erasmus - projects financed by the citizens of the member states - and allows the trade in european territory of products from illegal israeli settlements in the occupied west bank. this year the israeli authorities have prevented members of this house from entering palestine, and yet the presidency of this parliament does not dare to impose reciprocal measures. now we are very dismayed because everything points to the fact that, in our environment, there could be people that qatar and morocco would have encouraged to wash, improve and protect their reputation. but it seems that the israeli colonial regime is being given that same job, and much more, for free, until proven otherwise.
mr president, madam commissioner, i wholeheartedly support the idea of a negotiated two-state solution. it would bring an end to a long-lasting conflict in the middle east and allow the states of israel and palestine to live side by side with guarantees for the region’s peace and security. unfortunately, we have witnessed the continuation of the political stalemate and an increase of escalation with the use of military power, incitement to violence and terrorist attacks against security forces and citizens. these actions are incompatible with the peaceful resolution to the conflict and also further settlements would undermine the process. with the abraham accords, israel has shown its wish to better its relations with the other arab states. it also recently settled the maritime dispute with lebanon. based on these improvements with the region, parties can build the support to resume the negotiations, which did not take place since 2014. peace in the middle east is a key priority for the eu and we have to continue investing in the trust building and reconciliation process. i urge the external action service and eu member states to enhance their cooperation with the parties involved and work towards the normalisation of relations and to oppose any acts that undermine the prospect of a two-state solution.
mr president, i have a minute to tell you why i think this text is not satisfactory. thirteen recitals and twenty-six paragraphs, often unbalanced, which, in essence, list grievances but do nothing. we have to wait five pages to finally talk about the future and solutions - that is the title of our resolution. two paragraphs, however essential, on peace from below, on the importance of civil society and, above all, on rebuilding trust through the economy and energy. this was the credo of shimon peres, and it is also the foundation of the european union, the real leaven of a two-state solution. otherwise the real issues are pushed under the carpet: the failure of the government of national unity in israel, the negotiations that are taking place right now with the religious far right there, with their unbearable and unacceptable claims, and, above all, the caution in our text towards hamas, the timidity, the apology of violence, which is its real dna, or the suppression of the very notions of anti-semitism and the export of incitement to hatred, or the kind of trouble that was hoped to be caused by the abraham accords. i must stop here, but for all these reasons i will not vote for this text as it stands.
mr. chairman, please. now we are back with a resolution that talks about a two-state solution and that we should go back to the negotiating table as if the parties are equal. we keep ignoring the fact that one party has been occupying the other for 50 years. and there is no chance that the basic problem itself will be solved until the occupation is lifted and we can have real negotiations. and let us not forget that it is a very good thing that we are talking about the 1967 solution, but that is 22% of historic palestine for the palestinians and 78% for israel. just to keep the proportions clear here. and again, we are talking about upholding - we do that in many other places - international law. but clearly israel can violate international law without any serious consequences. and we are being asked - and i would like to stress this here - by both the palestinians and our friends for peace in israel to finally do something to end this whole atmosphere of impunity, and we have means at hand, legal means that we can use if they could finally have some consequences.
mr president, this is an important discussion, particularly in the context of the escalation of the ongoing israeli aggression against palestine and its people. the situation in palestine is a good example of the eu's double standards, particularly in the area of human rights. where is the suspension clause in the eu-israel association agreement, commissioner? how much money from european union funds continues to finance the israeli military industry directly or indirectly? it is not enough to make a strong case for the two-state solution as the only possible solution when the european union, by its connivance and complicity, is contributing by its omission to the aggravation of the israeli policy which aims to prevent the realization of the inalienable rights of the palestinian people, as enshrined in the united nations resolutions. a consistent policy is needed to establish a sovereign, viable and independent state of palestine within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, guaranteeing the right of return of refugees and the release of palestinian resistance fighters held in israeli prisons. all solidarity with the struggle of the palestinian people.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, we often discuss here in the european parliament on the israeli-palestinian conflict and on the prospects for its resolution. it seems to me, though, that we are somehow disconnected from the situation on the ground. the reality of violence the people living in those lands are experiencing each and every day as we keep repeating on liturgy on the two—state solution being the only possible one. let me be clear: i completely agree on that and i support that. but i wonder what are we really doing in practice to facilitate such outcome? and it’s clear the process has come to a complete standstill and our union is not doing enough, or anything, to reignite it. dear colleagues, in the last period we have been discussing about strategic autonomy, about the need to find the eu’s place in the world, about being a more proactive geopolitical player, especially in our neighbourhoods. i can’t think of a better test to our determination than trying to facilitate a solution to a conflict that has been going on for far too long. we need a serious reflection on what we can do and especially on what we are willing to do. and most of all, we need concrete actions instead of never—ending discussions.
mr president, i will begin my speech with a basic reflection on international relations: a change of government through the ballot box should never be a reason for cutting off relations with a country. i am not going to go into the details of the situation. it is a strategic partner in security and energy and trade intelligence, and in many other areas. it would not only be a diplomatic blunder, but also a profoundly undemocratic gesture, unsuitable for the european union. and we would go against the tide: while the arab world and our transatlantic partners support the abraham accords, strengthen their ties with israel and intensify cooperation, some in this house want europe to do the exact opposite. we know that the radical left is always eager to polarize, it is eager to blow up the bridges that connect us to israel. but if they succeed, they will not only be blowing up a strategic relationship, but also any future for the two-state solution and for peace in the middle east. that is why, in the face of radical incendiaries, in the face of those who veiledly justify terrorist acts, in the face of those who question israel's sovereignty, the israelis and the palestinians will always find the hand extended by all europeans who defend their right to exist, to exist in peace, and the need to count on them as allies.
mr president, thanks to the agreement signed between israel, egypt and europe just a few months ago, we can now have a normal winter. two years ago israel signed with the arab emirates, bahrain, morocco and sudan the normalization of their relations. the biggest paradigm shift in the region in years. this resolution we are debating today is a missed opportunity to take account of the progress that is taking place in the middle east, led by the only democracy that exists in the region. some claim that these agreements cannot solve regional problems and try to silence them. it is not enough for them that arabs and jews should talk again, trade again, cooperate again. europe and this parliament must support a shared solution to the middle east peace process. and they must also recognize the steps forward that the region itself is taking. the future of this region depends on stability. without stability, there is no solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. without stability, there is no way out of yemen. without stability, there is no security and only one wins: iran. we don't want him to stay, your honours. let us do our utmost to ensure that this stability is maintained and strengthened by all.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, turkey often accuses us of double standards, but sometimes our double standards seem to benefit turkey. let us see, how do we qualify the fact that a country, claiming the convenience of preventing a hypothetical and future danger, invades a neighbor with military forces, violating an internationally recognized sovereign border, even if it calls it a special military operation? and i am not talking about russia, which seems to excite the zeal of this house. i am talking about a flagrant violation of international law by turkey. it has already launched 'operations' in syria and iraq on three occasions. when does an operation start to be a raid, and when is a raid an invasion? and when is an invasion an occupation? and are not our double standards facilitating these air strikes to give way to a very dangerous ground invasion? the commissioner has asked turkey to show restraint. is that the same double standard we're using for russia?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on this point i naturally join in the denunciation and condemnation of the turkish government's offensive against iraq following the bombing in istanbul, which killed six people and injured scores of others. but it is also necessary, in the case of this new - not the first - violation of iraq's national sovereignty by turkey, to investigate the possible use of chemical weapons by the turkish armed forces, which, as we all know, are prohibited by international law. ladies and gentlemen, iraq is a fledgling democracy, of course, with many problems, with many difficulties, coming out of an electoral process which has taken more than a year to form a government. the road is not the one turkey has taken.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in georgia. i think putting her in a different situation from moldova and ukraine was. but the authorities and the opposition in the country are not helping either. everything is conspired to delay the start of a normalized political agenda. everything is conspired to maintain a polarization that is endangering the country's european project and perhaps even its own sovereign future. so the system has to release pressure. in that sense, not only because of his personal situation but because i believe it is convenient for the country, it would be good if the prison sentence for former president saakashvili was suspended for health reasons and to receive medical care. this is not going to solve the issue by itself, but i think it will help bring in political actors, or a more standardized agenda, and end that polarization that we all identify as the main political problem in the country.
mr. chairman, please. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have had the single market for 30 years now. we have succeeded in creating a fair framework for competition. a fair competition. it has created jobs and it has created growth. we are now facing a new global situation, where we are challenged by china with its state aid and by the united states with, not least, the new "inflation reduction act". ursula von der leyen also spoke about it. i would ask you today to be very, very careful in the solutions to be found in the council and in the commission. we need to protect our internal market from fragmentation. it is a very, very important one, but we should not build too many barriers to an open economy either. we really need to strike a proper balance here. so when you work with these things, try to do it well and fair and open and future-proof. and it is simply a matter of avoiding a fragmented internal market. i believe you can, but remember the balance. this is absolutely crucial. otherwise we cannot celebrate the next 30 years of the single market.
mr president, we are facing major challenges, such as the energy and economic crisis, which require a coordinated response across europe. but we also risk the prestige of our institutions and the strength of our democracies. that is why i ask the council and the commission today: do you agree that the penalties for corrupt persons are being reduced in the criminal code, even though it is the corrupt persons themselves who are asking for it? do you agree that crimes that protect the state against attacks on democracy are suppressed because those who attack it have asked for it? do you agree that instead of strengthening the institutions and guaranteeing the independence of the constitutional tribunal, the rules of the game are being changed to place members of a government in it and thus influence its decisions? i take it you didn't. that is what is happening in spain today with its government. let us face together all the challenges and threats we have in europe, of course, but we cannot remain silent when our democracies are weakening. i won't do it.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the problem of the rising cost of living is due mainly to a contradictory fact: multinationals, banking and the financial sector are parasites. i'll explain it to you. the six largest companies in spain - energy and banking, of course - made historic profits this year: 25 billion euros. they've grown seven times as much as wages. this means that they have taken advantage of the crisis to speculate and make money in an opportunistic way, plundering the pockets of families. to top it off, the incompetent people running the european central bank are raising interest rates, choking on mortgages, increasing bank profits and pushing us into recession. but this is not inevitable. look, mr gentiloni, i have a few suggestions for you: please demand that the european central bank immediately lower interest rates; push for the reform of the marginalist market - it is the only way to contain the price of energy - and, above all, please work on empathy. there are many people in europe suffering because of their bad decisions.
president, the temperatures are dropping steeply. at the same time, energy prices remain extremely high. this is exactly what we warned about earlier this year: people have to choose between eating or heating their homes. however, the runaway cost of living is not simply an insurmountable fact. we have the solutions to keep these prices under control, but they are taking far too long. we still have no european price ceiling for gas, and in the meantime speculation continues. we have a european law for higher minimum wages. only the member states are delaying its immediate application. we still don't have a living wage above the poverty line. however, europe can afford this. i understand that people are frustrated and helpless. i think we need to implement a number of measures quickly: a basic right to energy, a ban on evictions, a ban on cutting off energy even if you can't pay the bill. if we don't make this work now, we're going to push people further into poverty.
madam president, the price increase is not a new thing. spaniards have been suffering from a dramatic increase in prices since the disastrous management of the pandemic. gasoline, heating, the shopping basket, basic goods - everything has gone up, while the wages of spaniards - and the rest of europe - are intact, if not down. it is high time that this parliament devoted a minute to this debate and stopped talking about its climate predictions, the far right, the danger of poland or hungary, or the 72 genders. vox has been denouncing it since we've been here, since they decided to close business while honoring greta thunberg. you want to lower the cost of living? lower the taxes. you want to end inflation? stop printing money like crazy. you want to lower the price of energy and food? give up the climate fanaticism. you want to raise wages? stop importing cheap labor with the smuggling of illegal immigrants and let's invest in our industry. you want to make people's lives better? say goodbye to the 2030 agenda. mr commissioner, madam president, everyone, merry christmas and glory to god in the manger.
madam president, over the past year we have heard from the european commission that we have to humble ourselves in order to read in the press how much the richest have become richer, whether or not there is a crisis. and your solution? to shift the economic burden onto the citizens, whose living standards will in many cases drop dramatically this year. the czech republic's real wage decline is the largest in the last 30 years and the largest in the oecd. but the resources to prevent the crisis from hitting the most vulnerable again are there. we are suffering from capital outflows both within and outside the european union, we are looking at tax havens and the multinational giants are just making a good day out of us because no one is regulating them. when will you finally summon the courage to stand up for the people you're supposed to be here for, commissioner? and when will the eu stop creating problems and start solving them? enough of the talk. we've been listening to this for almost a year and nothing's happened. people are getting worse and worse. it takes something specific, something you do for them.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, inflation in october was up by 10%, but wages and pensions remained almost unchanged. poverty and social exclusion will increase in the coming months. we are in for a disaster. european companies now pay seven times more for energy than their american and asian competitors. i ask you all: how long can they hold out in the global market? the european response to a structural crisis is weak or even harmful, since the ecb's increase in the cost of money has not lowered inflation but has increased the risk of recession and energy dependence. to combat price increases, speculation must be stopped. it is intolerable that public undertakings should be making more profits, especially in the field of thermal networks, and i would like to put a question to the commission in this connection. the five star movement must put a cap on gas prices, make single european purchases and ban publicly controlled companies from generating profits on services of general interest, and set up an energy recovery fund to boost investment in renewable energy.
madam president, commissioner, minister, of course this is a priority. and it must be our priority to tackle the price escalation which is affecting in a very cruel way many european households, but also entrepreneurs, self-employed people, entrepreneurs and european smes who are making a real, immense effort to get ahead, to continue creating jobs, to continue creating wealth. i am not tired of saying that the european union has set in motion a spectacular mechanism, the next generation eu funding mechanism, which is precisely what it talks about, investment and reform. the question i ask the commission is whether the commission is doing its job, its responsibility to see that the necessary reforms are being undertaken, that these reforms are having the impact that was sought and whether, moreover, the funds are being implemented with the agility and speed that is needed at the moment. we're looking at some big investments. for example, in my country, spain, we are far behind. we have a great instrument in the next generation eu funds and i call on the commission to take care, with that responsibility, to ensure that the funds are implemented quickly and the necessary reforms are undertaken.
madam president, commissioner, the cost of living is rising and governments must act, that is what they are for. in spain we are already doing it. the ceiling on rent increases, support for the most vulnerable mortgage holders, the increase in pensions, the iberian solution to the gas ceiling, free rail transport and fuel discounts are measures that are already alleviating the situation of households, workers and small businesses. all this is accompanied by fiscal measures, such as levies on banks and electricity companies and pressure on the big fortunes to contribute or those who make huge profits from each crisis. the commission is also working to contain the price of the shopping basket and, despite the opposition of the business community, is discussing an increase in the minimum wage that can match that of the cpi. these are measures which are setting an example in europe and which should be followed by those who are opposed to putting a cap on gas today. what is clear is that raising interest rates is not the solution.
madam president, commissioner, as we debate today what measures should be taken to curb the upward inflationary trend, there are no words that can alleviate the suffering of many individuals and families who have to choose between paying for gas, electricity or food. there's no time for more words. our reflection must be transformed into urgent action. we need permanent and binding mechanisms that self-regulate market fluctuations and guarantee the sustainability and survival of our social welfare system. we must introduce a procedure for monitoring and correcting social imbalances in the member states in the context of the revision of tax rules; combat homelessness and cap the high cost of housing; put in place measures to ensure stable and quality jobs; and make the sure a permanent mechanism. and we need a directive on minimum incomes to help millions of europeans to lead a decent life, to get out of poverty. because this is the key to the european social model which we must defend.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president karas, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner gentiloni, i have of course taken note of what you have said. we can talk a lot about the walkways, but we know that to activate the walkways, unanimity is needed. i think we cannot ignore the fact that a reform of the treaties is absolutely necessary at the moment to resolve this issue. but i think that even before we raise that it is very important that, especially from the commission, mr gentiloni, we take more seriously the issue of finding ways of overcoming the 'abusive use' of the national veto. because the council won't be able to do it. we have just seen what has happened to hungary, it is not the first time. mr orbán's government - for the umpteenth time using the veto as a tool of political blackmail - says: i am suspending the 18 billion in aid to ukraine and i am suspending the oecd agreement on the minimum corporate tax until i am given a reduction in this case. it is true that it was not very large, but in any case it obtained a reduction on the funds that had been frozen because of a lack of respect for the rule of law. how can that be? that there is a political agreement that relativizethis sanction for not respecting the rule of law. but there was also a way out, which you had indicated - and the council, too, by the way. then, for some reason, they changed it. it was to find a way to resolve the aid package to ukraine at 26. moreover, you too - and this concerns you, commissioner gentiloni - had a solution for the oecd tax, which was article 116. how long will the commission have the courage to activate this article, which would allow the question of taxation by qualified majority to be resolved and put an end to orbán's political blackmail once and for all?
mr. president, how can we defend our democracy from foreign interference? well, not by allowing it, not by covering it, not by legitimizing it. because for too long we have allowed, protected and legitimized russia and iran, venezuela and other countries to finance and promote extremist political movements in different european countries and also in this house. because we have allowed, legitimised and protected countries like russia to support separatist movements in europe to weaken and break it, as in catalonia - as our dear mr puigdemont knows very well. because we have allowed and protected countries to pay some members so that some of the issues which concern them are not brought to this house or defended in any way. and that's known to all. so how do you defend it? not allowing it. and above all, by not opening the doors of our democracy and its institutions to the trojan horses of our enemies.
mr president, parliament is not an impenetrable bubble. there are real threats from those who want to impose themselves on the rule of law and democracy. we know that they use sophisticated and even more crude formulas to penetrate institutions, influence public opinion, whitewash tyrannical governments and alter the will of citizens in democratic processes. we live in times of shock and shame which must make us react with all the force and fortitude that the situation requires. the burden of the law must always fall on the corrupt and the corrupters. and this parliament, the most democratic in the world, must redouble its efforts to protect democracy. the special committee on foreign interference in all democratic processes of the european union has made proposals in this direction and welcomed the announcement by ursula von der leyen of this package of defence of democracy to protect us against covert foreign interference. the question is: when? when will this independent ethics authority be established? when will the european law against influence peddling and corruption, which was announced yesterday by mrs johansson and today by commissioner hahn, be in place? the question is, for how long? let us make the european union absolutely impervious to these attacks on our democracy, which are very real.
madam president, commissioner, minister, information and being informed are indisputable rights in a democracy. that's why we're on high alert. the latest media pluralism monitor records a growing number of lawsuits against freedom of expression in countries such as bulgaria, croatia, malta, romania and spain and reports a widespread environment of growing threats and hate speech. let's get this straight. press freedom in europe is in danger: media monopolies and media directly captured by states, or journalists who become victims of cyber espionage or are even killed, like yorgos karaivaz in greece and peter r. de vries in the netherlands, in the year 2021. when journalism is at risk, so is public debate and democracy itself. strengthening the decpp directive and the media freedom act is a priority. because there is no democracy without an information and media context based on public and democratic values, intersectional, sustainable and inclusive.
madam vice-president charanzová, minister bek, commissioner hahn, without a free press there is no democracy that works. it is very worrying that in the 2022 rule of law report we see the deterioration of the indicator on the journalistic profession and its protection. this trend has come a long way. we should remember that since 2015, 15 journalists have been killed in the european union: in france, malta, greece, the netherlands, denmark, poland, formerly the united kingdom and slovakia. and we see how some countries, unfortunately, are getting worse. as regards threats to the physical safety of journalists, the commission has had to make specific recommendations for slovakia and greece. but, in addition, reporters without borders has designated greece, in the year 2022, as the worst country in the european union for press freedom. worse than hungary, even. journalists in this country who want to report on immigration policy and the human rights violations of immigrants are real heroes who are playing the guy. they are victims of hostile statements by political leaders. they are harassed and assaulted, even by the police, and even arrested. this situation must end and the commission must continue to act. i would say even more emphatically in the case i have described.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the tourist industry. madam president, commissioner, as rapporteur for this report from the committee on transport and tourism, i would like to stress that the two main milestones underlying this review highlight even more the value of investing in mobility and infrastructure in the european union. covid-19 and the war in ukraine have had an incalculable impact on european transport and tourism systems, sectors that contribute a lot to the economy and job creation in europe. the budget of the connecting europe facility for 2021-2027, which was already insufficient, cannot cover the new transport needs. the new geopolitical context and the urgency to accelerate energy independence and the decarbonisation of transport require more european funding. the council failed to understand the added value of investing in dual mobility. we have seen that adapting the transport networks for defence use benefits civilian use and would also facilitate the transport of humanitarian material and grain from ukraine through the solidarity corridors. i am not forgetting the tourism sector, which has also been badly affected in recent years and for which we are once again insisting on a specific european budget.
the commission has already done so. the fight against the social and economic consequences of the war in ukraine is becoming expensive. and in times of inflation, the ecb is seen as a saviour of states. this morning we discussed europe's reaction to the united states' inflation reduction act. either we have to reduce eu state aid controls massively so that strong member states can compete with them. the price is the disintegration of the internal market. or we need eu-wide funding. but let's be honest: 1% of european gdp is not nearly enough to keep up with the us or china. that is why we need an additional, and i quote, 'permanent special instrument which goes beyond the limits of the mff', as stated in paragraph 66 of the report. that's the crucial line. it is the only way for europe to be competitive and to keep up with the americans. the federal constitutional court is not a problem here, by the way. it did not decide that a mechanism could not be permanent. no, the debt-financed appropriations may not exceed the budget's own resources.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. allow me to begin by paying tribute to both jan olbricht and margarida marques for their work. this is a lot of good and necessary work. second point. we are not talking about a revision, a change or a revolution of the mff, but about an improvement of the mff, a budget of the european union that is ready for new challenges and that is resilient. so we want to make better use of the money and resources that we have. two points that are highlighted as particularly important. this is inflation and the decline in the real value of money and the second point: new events, mainly the war in ukraine. and from this point of view, i think that, particularly in paragraphs 9, 10 and 14 of the report, we are simply meeting expectations. i would also like to express my deep conviction that instead of talking about the crisis that is besetting us, we should be mobilizing to find better ways of managing resources. simply to make better use of already owned resources.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. imagine that you are building a house. you put money aside for that every month. your house should be stable, modern, climate neutral, and your grandchildren should live in it. but then you need money for other important purposes: you help your neighbour in need, you need bread and warmth for the winter. but what about the house? no one believes that you can make a long-term investment by diverting funds over and over again. why are we doing this with the eu budget? regional policy is the eu's key long-term investment instrument. it helps our regions to grow, to become greener, to become more modern, to create jobs. but regional policy funds are being diverted for various crises. almost half a dozen ad hoc instruments have been created under the erdf alone. we are putting at risk investments in technology, in urban development, in bicycle paths. this is the wrong way. new tasks require new and additional resources. let us continue to build the house of europe and invite our neighbours. we need a stronger, more sustainable financial framework for this.
it is clear that we are living in a time of great challenges that are reflected in the daily lives of our citizens and that require clear and decisive responses. we could say that we actually need a reset. this year, which has been a challenging year, has been very turbulent, with the russian aggression in ukraine, the rising energy prices and the increased inflationary pressures. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the costs of the measures in question. in order to adapt to these changes, we must ensure that timely and concrete measures are taken, but not at the expense of the less developed member states. i therefore call on us to use our full potential and our institutional roles in the adoption of the union budget and send a clear message of stability to our citizens. we have to act rationally and structural changes are really necessary. they must be timely and concrete, because only then will we ensure the confidence of our citizens.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear colleagues, i thank you once again for having this exchange of views today and i thank you for your engagement in reflecting about the future of the mff. and listening to all of you, i have heard a lot of support for an ambitious but targeted mff review. because we have to acknowledge that since the adoption of the mff, the current mff, in december 2020, significant pressures on the eu budget have been testing its ability and flexibility to react to the multiple humanitarian, economic and social consequences of the war of aggression against ukraine for neighbouring countries into the union. and therefore, we have mobilised some of the flexibilities of the mff and in particular special instruments, symmetric ones and non-symmetric ones. the flexibility that can be found within the mff and within programmes is essential. while these instruments have been increased compared to the 2014 and 2020 mff, they remain limited in size and we are mobilising them at a fast pace. an ambitious review means that we must not shy away from taking a critical look at where the union budget spends and how it can address both our long-term priorities and tackling new challenges and emergencies. political courage is finally needed to reconsider where to prioritise funds and where we can economise our spending, given the difficult economic conditions across europe. the current geopolitical and economic situation is defined by events, which are still subject to significant uncertainty, and the commission continues to monitor the situation. we will assess the needs carefully and responsibly as part of a long-term reflection on the future of the union budget. but already today, and this to those who are critical, i would like to say and to recall about the gradual loss of purchasing power due to the inflation and the fact that we have an automatic deflator of 2%. so in that respect, already something has to be done. but i fully agree with all those who have said we have to see to which extent we can flexibilise the budget or to create something which enables us to react faster, quicker to future possible developments, as it was the case in the past. so i am looking forward to a very intensive discussion in the next couple of weeks and months because there is an urgency and we have to address it.
rapporteur. – madam president, mr commissioner, i think that at the end of our debate, before voting, it’s very clear that the european parliament, in its majority, really feels co-responsible for the actions which should be organised and made by the european union. this is our challenge but, of course, we know very well how difficult it is and how difficult it will be to find the financial resources to do it. so that’s why i think, and i hope, that you understand that we are waiting for the very concrete steps. i would like to thank mr commissioner for explaining what is the ambitious review, but i understand that when we speak about revision and the commission speaks about review, the question is, is it a real difference? i don’t think so. i don’t think so, because if we want to change something, and we have to change, we need a very deep and ambitious review. and, of course, at the end of this debate, i would like to say that if this review is really well done and really not only ambitious but very, very concrete, the conclusions will be absolutely obvious, because the review will show that we have to change the mff. so i think that if your review will be ambitious, we will have revision, and i think that we share this view and the council will agree as well.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held tomorrow, thursday, december 15, 2022. written declarations (article 171) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the report (a9-0271/2022) by mr loránt vincz, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the 2021 agenda of the committee on petitions 2022/2024 (ini).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of the commission, i really would like to welcome mr vincze’s report, which offers a comprehensive overview of the committee on petitions’ activities in 2021. engaging with citizens remains of paramount importance to the commission and petitions are an effective channel for direct contact and open dialogue on problems affecting the daily lives of europeans. we are committed to providing timely and pertinent contributions to parliament’s response to these concerns. a clear signal of this commitment is that throughout 2021, commission representatives were present at all meetings of the committee on petitions, including at the highest political level. for example, my colleague, vice-president šefčovič, was with you on 3 december 2021 to hold the structured dialogue in accordance with the framework agreement on relations between our two institutions. vice-president jourová discussed the european citizens’ initiative with you on 15 july last year, and commissioner dalli on 22 march last year presented to you the strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities for this decade. even though the overall number of petitions decreased in 2021 compared to the year before, the commission still received 554 new ones from the european parliament, which required us to provide contributions. out of this total number, we have so far transmitted our replies on 327 petitions. the remaining petitions are currently in different stages of the internal approval procedure. i would like to say a few words about the main topics citizens have raised in these petitions because this is a good thermometer of their concerns. on the covid-19 pandemic, the commission has constantly provided information and explained the efforts made at union level – coordinated response measures, shared science and research efforts, joint procurement of vaccines and protective equipment. as reiterated in the european green deal, we are working with member states to ensure the correct implementation of union environmental law through financing, technical assistance and enforcement. the situation on the ground in member states has already improved in areas like air quality and the protection of natural ecosystems, among others. we support environmental governance at national level so that citizens can access national mechanism and judicial systems. we have taken legal actions whenever needed against projects that may cause irreversible environmental or public health damage on a significant scale. we welcome the opinion adopted by the committee on petitions on our proposal for a directive on environmental crime. on fundamental rights, i would like to commend your efforts to support and promote the rights of people with disabilities, as well as lgbtiq+ rights with special attention being paid to rainbow families. i am pleased to inform you that last week, on 7 december, the commission made a proposal for a regulation on the recognition of parenthood between member states. as reflected in the 2021–2030 strategy for the rights of persons with disabilities, together with member states, we make efforts to ensure full participation of persons with disabilities in our society. by the end of 2023, the commission will propose a european disability card to facilitate mutual recognition of disability status within the union. the commission agrees with you on the importance of the european citizens’ initiative, which gives union citizens the opportunity to initiate debates on issues that concern them. finally, i would like to reiterate our commitment to addressing infringement-related petitions. the proper application of union law is a collective responsibility shared between the commission, as the guardian of the treaties, and national authorities and courts. therefore, i welcome your call on national authorities to be proactive in taking the necessary measures to respond to citizens’ petitions in cases of systemic failure to comply with union law. the infringement procedure allows the commission to take action if it considers that a member state breaches union law, asking member states to remedy the situation by a certain date. infringements contribute to addressing systemic problems affecting a large amount of people, often across member states. to put it simply, our enforcement work focuses on addressing the root causes of problems. that procedure is not designed to offer concrete solutions for individuals or ensure individual redress. petitioners, pointing to the incorrect application of union law in individual cases would benefit more from the mechanisms at national level, such as national courts, regulatory bodies or ombudsman. if the problem has a cross-border dimension, then the solvit network may offer quick remedies. to conclude, i want to reassure you that the commission remains committed to maintaining its close and fruitful cooperation with parliament in general and with the committee on petitions in particular. in this way we can work together to continue effectively addressing the matters that citizens address to the european institutions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank my colleague, mr lorant vincze, for his excellent work and for his report. it has managed to produce an objective report, which has not been politicised unnecessarily and adequately represents the work of the committee in 2021, through good compromises. the committee on petitions is the closest thing to the citizen in the european decision-making process. the committee on petitions held twelve committee meetings in 2021 in which 159 petitions were discussed with 113 petitioners connected. this is hardly possible in any other national committee of petitioners, and it is really a special feature: it is a living democracy. what conclusions do i draw from the report, or what can be done even better? a relatively high proportion of petitions received, 26.5%, are declared inadmissible. this means that extensive communication work is still needed to explain to citizens what the european committee on petitions is responsible for. secondly, i very much regret that the commission still often fails to inform the committee on petitions fully about legislative and non-legislative measures taken in response to petitions received. thirdly, our petitioners often turn to the committee on petitions when they have urgent problems. i personally still find it too long to process petitions, and we also need to reduce the backlog of existing petitions, because this weakens trust in the eu institutions. fourthly, i find it regrettable that the work of the petitions network - that is to say, the cooperation between the committee on petitions and the specialised committees - has fallen asleep a little lately. we could do a wake-up call again. and in closing, of course, i wish us all a merry christmas and a healthy new year 2023.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for the work done. i would also like to thank my colleague, mr alex saliba, as an alternative rapporteur, for the work he has done. the committee on petitions is the most direct channel of communication between citizens and the european institutions. petitions enable europeans to denounce violations of rights or to initiate three-way debates with the parliament, the council and the commission on specific proposals for which the european union has competence. it is true that few parliaments in the world have this formula for accountability and the guarantee of rights. the question is, is this valuable instrument being fully leveraged? i agree with my colleagues that there is room for improvement, for example, greater involvement of the european commission in providing its assessment of certain complaints. it is not the first time that the commission has been involved in a dispute with a member state which has not yet been able to resolve it. it should also be more proactive and more rapid and diligent in processing those requests. i therefore take advantage of commissioner hahn's presence to make that demand. in any event, do citizens know enough about the committee on petitions? do they value it? you could say that, broadly speaking, yes. it would be unfair to deny the serious and committed work of most of the colleagues who work to give voice and response to citizens. it is our duty to ensure that the committee on petitions, which should be called the committee on citizens' rights, functions properly. we should be shining a light on the committee on petitions every day. however, certain members, instead of making it shine, are cutting it down. instead of going to their parties to make opposition, they use this commission presenting petitions not only to defend citizens, but mainly to attack democratically elected governments. there are petitions that have been debated up to three times without even having competence at european level, just because some decide to follow partisan strategies that do not respect the decision of the citizens. on the way, many citizens wait for years, even decades, without receiving a reply from this parliament. let us reflect together, beyond the partisan sectarianism of a few, on how we can improve the committee on petitions. this is also democracy and this is also accountability and, above all, these are rights of european citizens. happy christmas to the colleagues and to all the members of the european parliament.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, as all technical things were, fortunately, already said, i can allow myself to be a bit more general. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadows for their collaboration on this report. secondly, i have to admit that the petitions committee is actually my favourite in this house, for this is the place where you hear the real voice of real europeans. and you know what? europeans are very well aware of their rights. almost everyone knows about the european charter of fundamental rights, but very few realise that it is consistent with article 51, which says that the charter has to be followed only when european law is implemented, which in practice means that the national legislator is not supposed to follow or even to read it. so in accordance with the rules of procedure, we, as a rule, declare these petitions inadmissible, despite the fact that very often we see clear violations of people’s rights. the commission says, ‘no worries, we have some other tools in our toolbox’. one of them – widely promoted – is the citizens’ initiative. so we urge people to use it. but do they receive a proper answer? this might not be the case. we all remember what happened to minority safepack: nothing. i mean, nothing happened. the commission just does not dare to touch the hot potato of minority issues. do you think all these more than a million europeans who gave their signatures to support national and linguistic minorities are still pro—europeans? let’s hope they are, despite the fact that here at peti we clearly see all these bottlenecks of the european project when it comes to human rights. of course, there is a lot to be improved in the committee itself: a common set of clear and objective criteria, a petitions portal with clear information on what exactly falls under the union’s fields of activity. we have to stop misusing peti for internal political issues, which unfortunately takes place sometimes. but the main thing to improve is the european union as such. if we prefer to limit ourselves to common market and border policies, we would not be able to meet the expectations of our citizens.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, thank you to the rapporteur and colleagues who worked on this file; the result is overall balanced and positive. it’s good that we reiterate the request to the commission to revise its approach to petitions, which the parliament already considers to be in breach of the treaties. it leaves many citizens who filed individual petitions without adequate protection of their rights. i am happy that this report considers the best way forward to be an agreement between the parliament and the commission on the handling of petitions, and the fulfilment of the request to get access to the commission’s documents and information on eu pilot and infringement procedures, based on petitions. but we should have been more outspoken on the very bad situation we are experiencing in this committee. frankly, it’s taken hostage mainly by partido popular on spanish issues. these often have no connection with eu law but are nonetheless treated to accommodate national party political interest. this includes biased decisions that undermine the spirit of this citizen-close committee, and violate our internal rules and practices in ways that i have never seen in my 14 years of work in this committee. we must safeguard the committee’s credibility and restore its authentic european dimension by working in full compliance with all applicable rules, and truly be the citizens’ gateway to the eu institutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, these were some of spain's 2021 petitions: fraud in the temporary hiring of interim staff, illegal states of alarm, sexual abuse of minors under the guardianship of socialist governments in the balearic islands and valencia, and the letter of more than 2 500 judges denouncing a serious risk to the rule of law in spain. today the situation is dramatic. pedro sánchez, an unscrupulous autocrat, has colluded with the separatists who dealt a blow to the constitution in 2017 for the systematic demolition of the separation of powers and the rule of law. in the heart of europe, the socialist government this week is going to pass a sedition law to free the coup plotters, to corrupt the misuse of public funds law to pardon all the thieving politicians, and to assault the judiciary and the constitutional court, thus ending the rule of law. we are witnessing a coup against the rule of law live and you continue to support a government that wants to take spain back to its darkest times while blackmailing conservative governments. but spain is not for sale or trade. spain defends itself. it's what millions of spaniards will do until the end of their days, with you or without you.
madam president, commissioner, just as we abhor corruption, we should also be ashamed of the blatant partisan use which president dolors monserrat has made and continues to make of the committee on petitions, which is not at the service of the citizens today, but of the spanish people's party, with the support of renew and the european people's party. some figures: during this parliamentary term, 40% of the missions carried out by this committee were in spain, leaving the citizens of the other 26 member states out. tendency-driven interpretations of the rules of procedure by the chair have led to formal complaints from the coordinators of different groups. and the list goes on. spanish pp elected officials presenting petitions in a committee that is supposed to be for the citizens. petitions, such as those concerning catalan, which remain open despite the commission's repeated assertion that this is not a matter for europe. president montserrat, this institution and the citizens of europe deserve a little more respect. shame on you!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. one of the conclusions of that meeting was that the united states and the european union have never been more aligned in our strategic outlook. now, then, in this european parliament, there seems to be no limit that we are not prepared to cross in order to belittle and criticize china to the delight of the circus owner, that is to say the united states. this time, they condemn it for implementing the anti-covid measures they had decided on. some anti-covid measures, some policies that have shown a prevalence of death from this pandemic almost a thousand times lower than that of the united states. and yet, despite that, they have been sensitive to the protests and have given in. they've caved in to the protesters' demands. but it seems that the promoters of this resolution share more the treatment of donald trump or jair bolsonaro, real men record in the rate of affectation and death in their countries. i would like to warn colleagues in this position that there is a very narrow line between the discourse that anti-covid measures are useless and the discourse that we are being turned into robots by the implantation of a chip in the vaccines. after this there is only the earth is flat or woman was created from man's rib, as some school in the united states likes to promulgate. from this european union we should be committed to a foreign policy based on peace, cooperation, solidarity and mutual benefit, respecting the sovereignty of peoples and the principles of the united nations charter and international law.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, we would like to recognise the immense bravery of people across china who recently came out to stand up and express themselves. it was an exceptional moment for many reasons. protesters came out despite many risks, ubiquitous mass surveillance, the fear of being pursued afterwards. protests happen in china, but they are usually local on specific issues. indeed, these demonstrations followed that of a lone protester with slogans written on white banners ahead of the 20th party congress. worryingly, his whereabouts remain unknown. but last month’s demonstrations happened in at least 12 cities, with people from many walks of life. images spread on the internet as quickly as they were captured by surveillance cameras. the protests offered a show of inter—ethnic solidarity, and the fire in xinjiang, which tragically left at least eight uyghur chinese citizens dead. the triple implications of social instability, economic impact and people’s fatigue after almost three years of lockdowns seem to have led the authorities to conclude that the time has come to change the zero covid-19 policy. the voices of the protesters did not therefore go unnoticed. no one can anticipate how things will evolve. the public health impacts or what may happen in case of a large scale pandemic outbreak. the challenge is massive, with the risk of grave consequences as case numbers spiral and health systems come under strain. president michel shared with president xi europe’s experience with massive vaccination of all age groups going hand in hand with easing of measures. those who chose to stand up and protest showed great courage. systematic repression of public dissent by state authorities has been raised many times in this chamber. there are reports of security services tracking down protesters. anyone who had a mobile phone switched on knows they may be traced. many students were sent home from universities. people who took to the streets may still feel reprisals, especially those who chanted certain slogans or sent images abroad. honourable members, the eu will continue to speak up for the right to freedom of peaceful expression everywhere in the world – that is a fundamental right which must be enjoyed by everyone.
author. madam president, the first thing i wanted to say is that i find it a real shame that the people's party is not taking part in these debates. the people's party seems to want to put an end to the interference of third countries in this parliament by abolishing human rights. it seems that the people's party wants to fight corruption by abolishing democracy. what will the people's party's next proposal be? shut down parliament? sure, that's what we're seeing. eighteen months ago this house spoke of a coup d'état in chad which the european union did not want to recognise. violence against the people who called for democracy. we were asked to trust the transition period for stability in the region. today we have reached the end of that period and the foreseeable has passed: the military junta and déby have decided to prolong their dictatorship and continue to repress their people. dozens of dead, arrested and persecuted. the use of lethal force against protesters in chad is common. in the meantime, the european union and its member states, including france, have supported the military junta and maintained cooperation with the regime, including military and police cooperation with dead on the table. this is stability? we demand that constitutional order be restored and political power be handed over to civilian authorities and, until that happens, that cooperation with the chadian dictatorship be terminated.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine, and the introduction of a new vaccine. these clashes have resulted in 400 arrests. most of the arrested protesters, tried without bail, were sentenced to two to three years in prison. civil society opposition was against the extension of the political transition period decreed by the military junta, which dissolved the parliament and the government and promised free and democratic elections, after a tradition of 18 months renewable only once. the european parliament cannot remain silent in the face of this. that's why we're scheduling this debate. i deeply regret that the largest political group in this house, the epp, does not have the compassion, the empathy, the political responsibility to join this debate and support the democratic transition that the people of chad are longing for. as a member of this house of democracy, i do not disregard my right and duty to appeal to the chadian authorities to guarantee and protect the exercise of the rights of peaceful assembly and association, as well as the freedom of opinion and expression of their citizens in chad, and to create conditions for a rapid and peaceful democratic transition.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, what happened in chad on 20 october is unacceptable. the excessive and disproportionate use of force by the chadian security forces to repress opposition demonstrations led to the death of at least 50 people – likely more – and over 600 arrests. hundreds of detainees, reportedly including minors, are being held in a high-security prison far from the capital. we understand that some of the arrested have been released in the meantime. trials have started against the detainees and verdicts have already been handed down, often without giving them access to lawyers and in the absence of independent observers. allegations of serious human rights abuse abound. these are grave breaches of international human rights law and, as such, risk seriously undermining the ongoing political transition. the eu has been chad’s steadfast partner for years, offering its contribution to help them face their many political, social and economic challenges. together with our partners and, in particular, the african union, the eu has supported the transition process that started in 2021 as the basis upon which to build a new social contract in chad, rooted in the respect of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. in this spirit, the eu has been calling on the authorities, including at the highest level, to shed full light on the events of 20 october and their aftermath, and for the full respect of the right to a fair trial and due process of all the arrested. only a credible, independent investigation into what happened, in full respect of the rights of detainees, and ensuring accountability and justice for any human rights violations and abuses committed, will rebuild trust in chadian institutions. this will be crucial to allow the transition process to be credible, inclusive and able to pursue its ultimate goal of building back better for the benefit of the chadian population.
in writing. on 20 april 2021, idriss déby, president of chad, was killed in action. his son, mahamat idriss déby, has since secured a transition, outside of democratic standards, which the european union has seen with a bad eye. this is all the more true since this transitional period was extended and opposition demonstrations were reportedly suppressed. however, having followed closely the developments in the sahel and the french-led military operation barkhane, i would like to recall the heavy toll that chad has paid in the fight against islamist terrorism. chad still hosts a french military presence, notably at the fort-lamy air base. while jihadism has been gaining ground since france's withdrawal, this charge against the chadian regime should be somewhat nuanced to take account of this context. the democratic principles and respect for fundamental rights are obviously not negotiable. but in this case, we can still hope that the path of dialogue and diplomacy will eventually bear fruit, and that is, after all, our best bet. thank you.
in writing. chad has enjoyed relative stability under the rule of president idriss deby, who was assassinated in 2021. but now, the lack of a functioning government, the growing presence of religious extremists, and the deteriorating economic situation threaten to bring about a complete collapse in chad. chad is one of the poorest countries on earth. another challenge is to provide for the 450,000 refugees from sudan, nigeria, and central africa. and the weak government is unable to stop religious fanatics from neighboring countries from infiltrating chad. we have to see that the rise of religious extremists is a threat, primarily to christians living in the country, but also to other muslim communities who can only hope that the state can put a stop to islamist excesses. the security and stability of the sahel region and thus of chad is a strategic interest of the european union. the european union is a global community of nations, and the european union is a global community of nations. in this situation, we simply cannot allow the collapse of the sahel region to trigger another, much larger, wave of migration. it is essential for the restoration of stability in chad that democratic elections be held as soon as possible. the union must be ready to help this process. in addition, the european union should support the initiatives of regional partners and the efforts of member states through its own instruments in the field of security.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, human rights represent a core dimension of the eu’s engagement with bahrain and are regularly addressed, including during our annual human rights dialogue with the country as well as by our member states. since the first round of our dialogue with bahrain in 2016, we have been addressing several areas of concern with regard to the human rights situation; freedom of expression and association, the right to a fair trial, allegations of torture and prison conditions, and the situation of prisoners of conscience are among the points that we raise systematically and consistently with bahraini authorities. we have seen progress on certain human rights issues in bahrain. the fact that healthcare in prisons is now provided by the ministry of health instead of the ministry of interior and the increasing number of cases for which alternative punishments apply are steps in the right direction. we continue to urge that independent oversight mechanisms are put into place and that the officials are held accountable in cases of torture and ill treatment of prisoners. the case of abdulhadi al-khawaja is one of the cases we have been actively following, both from brussels and via the delegation in riyadh, accredited to bahrain. we are regularly insisting on seeking clarifications from the bahraini authorities on his health and access to medical treatment, as well as details on the judicial process. in doing so, we have constantly reiterated the respect for the un guidelines on the minimum standards of treatment of prisoners – the mandela rules – as well as the eu’s principled position on freedom of expression and association. the most recent dialogue held on october 27 in manama, provided further opportunity to discuss pertinent issues of concern with bahraini authorities. moreover, three eu member state ambassadors present in the country participated in the dialogue as observers. on that occasion, the eu emphasised rule of law as a foundation for our engagement with partner countries. we have also inquired about the conditions in prisons, urging bahrain to seriously investigate any torture allegations and violations of the right to a fair trial, as well as to extend an amnesty to all currently on death row. the meeting also allowed raising individual cases, including the one of al—khawaja. we pleaded for transparency and openness from the bahraini side and requested for the possibility for eu special representative for human rights, e. gilmore, to visit him and other prisoners of conscience. in the same vein, the eu special representative for human rights has been raising the cases of imprisoned bahraini human rights defenders, with bahraini authorities, pleading for a release, including on humanitarian grounds. the eu will remain actively engaged on human rights situations in bahrain, including on the case of al-khawaja. we are confident that intensification of relations with bahrain could possibly lead to an improvement of the overall human rights situation in the country. for this reason, we will also explore opportunities for sharing eu expertise and best practices in specific human rights-related domains with competent bahraini authorities. moreover, the eu will also work with bahrain to implement its recently adopted national human rights action plan, which includes specific objectives in the area of the rule of law.
madam president, i welcome today’s vote on the two-state solution for israel and palestine. we must continue to work with our allies, especially the united states, to continue supporting durable peace between israel and the palestinians, but also across the regions through the abraham accords. however, let me also stress the importance of education in building durable peace based on respect and tolerance. hatred, incitement to violence and antisemitism are in conflict with european values and are a key impediment to the resolution of the conflict. that’s why i would like to stress that all schoolbooks and school materials supported by the union funds, including those used by unrwa, must be in line with the unesco standards of peace, tolerance, coexistence and non-violence. eu funding must be suspended if clear and substantiated evidence of misuse is presented.
member of the commission. – madam president, the eu is a strong proponent and supporter of the fundamental values in the eu and the declaration on minority rights, whose 30th anniversary we are marking today. respect of the rights of persons belonging to minorities is one of the founding values of the european union, and is a principle explicitly mentioned in the treaty on european union. any discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin, language, religion or belief, as well as membership of a national minority, is explicitly prohibited under article 21 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. defending minority rights is today more important than ever. we are seeing a backlash against the universality of human rights, against intercultural and multi-ethnic coexistence by opportunists, using us—against—them ideologies, fuelling hate speech against minorities, and demonising cultural or ethnic differences as a means to divide societies and further their political goals. the commission ensures that fundamental rights and the right to non—discrimination are respected when eu law is implemented. within the remit of its competences the eu is well equipped with legislative instruments, including the racial equality directive, the employment equality directive – which prohibits discrimination on grounds of religion or belief – and the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law. the eu anti-racism action plan sets out a series of measures to step up action and bring together stakeholders at all levels to address racism more effectively within the eu. the action plan is intended to tackle racism and racial discrimination across society through fair policing, protection, education and remembrance, funding in areas such as labour market, social protection, healthcare and housing, fighting against extremism and hate speech, and improving data collection about instances of discrimination. the eu’s equality agenda can have a direct impact on minorities of all kinds. for instance, the eu-roma strategic framework for equality, inclusion and participation aims at promoting equality, social, political, cultural and economic inclusion of all roma people. the commission adopted its first ever eu strategy on combating anti-semitism and fostering jewish life that aims to support and complement eu member states’ efforts in their national action plans to combat anti-racism and anti-semitism. the commission has appointed a special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the eu. the special envoy will establish a dialogue with national authorities and stakeholders in countries suffering from discrimination on the grounds of religious belief. the commission is also in the process of appointing a coordinator for the fight against anti-muslim hatred. in its response to the european citizens’ initiative on the minority safepack, which was communicated on 14 january 2021, the commission explained how it is implementing several council recommendations and other policy documents which together represent a substantial set of measures in favour of minorities. in this respect, i mention the funding programmes in the areas of culture and education, which are fully accessible for regional or minority languages. as regards eu funding more generally, the eu has reinforced the rules for compliance with fundamental rights and eu funds. the new common provision regulations setting out the rules for the next budget of 2021-2027 contains an enabling condition relating to the charter. this requires member states to take steps to ensure compliance with the charter of fundamental rights when disbursing the eu structural funds. the horizon europe programme – the biggest framework programme for research and innovation – dedicates a specific cluster on culture, creativity and inclusive society with a focus, among others, to protect languages as part of europe’s cultural heritage for the first time. and i would say that in this context, significant attention will be devoted to research activities such as safeguarding minority, regional and local languages.
the commissioner, madam president, is pleased to note that the united nations general assembly has declared the 30th anniversary of the declaration on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. it is clear that, after these thirty years, there are millions and millions of people belonging to minorities who are still suffering forced assimilation, persecution, prejudice, discrimination, stereotypes, hatred and violence. and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs is particularly concerned about the pressure on persons belonging to minorities in the immigration and asylum processes: stateless persons, minors, particularly vulnerable persons and, of course, women belonging to minorities, who are always particularly affected by gender-based violence, by violence of all kinds and, therefore, by unacceptable attacks on their fundamental rights and dignity. and that is why the united nations continues to insist on the need for the european union to show political leadership, in accordance with the values proclaimed in article 2, which specifically prohibit discrimination on the grounds of membership of minorities and which, moreover, include the protection of minorities as a fundamental value of the european union. and that's why the european parliament passed a final resolution in 2018 demanding european minimum standards for the protection of persons belonging to minorities. the european parliament is therefore calling for legislation with a precise definition of the european concept of minorities and standards of protection, which will therefore be required of all the member states of the european union. this will be a way of honouring the 30th anniversary of the united nations declaration on the rights of persons belonging to minorities.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner, it is now 30 years since that declaration and two years since we debated the rights of persons belonging to minorities in this house. i said then, and i repeat today, that the protection of minorities and the most vulnerable - and, of course, the protection and promotion of linguistic diversity - is and must remain an increasing priority. this protection can only be achieved by defending a society in which we are free and equal in rights and freedoms. the promotion of linguistic diversity must also be part of this idea. in the resolution on minority rights passed in this house just two years ago, we said how to do that. linguistic rights must always be respected and promoted in accordance with the law, in a way that respects the fundamental rights of all people, without any discrimination. i believe it is time to understand identity as a shared wealth, not as a dogma, and to promote languages and cultures openly, in a europe without thought police or identity police, without discrimination, as i say, with citizens. an open europe, a europe of free and equal people. - i'll see you later.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the instigation of the european parliament's intergroup on traditional minorities, national communities and languages, the epp and greens/efa groups had proposed that a resolution on minority rights be put to the vote in parliament on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the united nations declaration on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. the other groups did not support this request, and in the vote on our agenda a very narrow majority was in favour, with only two votes. i'm sorry about that. i think that this minority issue, since the united nations adopted this declaration, has been grossly underestimated by the european institutions, including our parliament. in the 1990s, several texts were drawn up and voted on in this parliament and in the council of europe, such as the european charter for regional languages and the framework convention for the protection of national minorities. these texts helped to define the copenhagen criteria, which have been the basis of the european union's values since 1993. unfortunately, these two decades have eroded interest in these issues, which are essential to the cohesion of the european union and to respecting its motto, 'unity in diversity'. yet how can we ignore the importance of these issues internationally, as in syria and iraq, where the islamic state made the persecution of religious and ethnic minorities the essence of its evil deeds, in armenia and nagorno-karabakh, in the sahel, where ethnic conflicts explain the essence of the gains made by the islamists of daesh, in ethiopia, or for the uyghurs in china? the european union's retreat on these issues affects, in my view, the proper understanding of these conflicts by our european external action service and by most european diplomatic services. within europe, these issues are just as topical. the copenhagen criteria have not yet been ratified by a country like france. the un special rapporteur has recently again deplored the censorship of a law adopted for the teaching of regional languages. the reasons are many. they come from the history of conflict between states, to which the construction of europe wants to provide a lasting response. however, the backwardness on these issues is significant and jeopardises the stability of the union. i would like to draw attention in particular to the deplorable decisions being taken in some countries against russian-speaking minorities as a result of vladimir putin's actions. we must be careful to prevent such measures, which, far from building peace, risk aggravating the problems. that is the debate that is at stake. i have no doubt that parliament will take full advantage of this in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the declaration is to enable persons belonging to minorities to contribute to the social and political stability of states, to serve the common good and the individual. not the general interest or the interests of the majority, as they say now. always in a hurry to find harmony and not confrontation. however, this right of minorities is being used as a weapon to create division, for example by giving rise to separatist minorities to illegitimately try to break the unity of nations, as is happening in spain. or when it protects some people in a self-interested and sometimes disproportionate way, but not others, based on ideological interests. it is shameful that the international community should keep silent about the incessant attacks on the lives of christian minorities, who are cruelly and unjustly persecuted for their faith, when, moreover, they have always been an undeniable service to society. in his name and in mine, i wish you all a very merry christmas.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, madam commissioner, i come from a people, the reunionese people, who have suffered a great deal, who were born of a crime against humanity, slavery, and who have experienced colonization, repression and the denial of their language and identity. we have, through our struggles, survived this, but we know from our experience what it means not to be able to speak your language, not to be able to practice your religion and to be faced with the choice between assimilation or submission. that is why, as a reunion resident, i know what minorities are experiencing today in europe, who, in this reactionary time and the exaltation of assumed or disguised identity nationalisms, are paying a heavy price. in this context, the protection of minorities is a fundamental duty for europe. i think it is a survival duty for a civilized europe. for the world today, the safeguarding of cultural and linguistic diversity - which is, as always, undermined by processes of domination - is a challenge for civilization.
madam president, i regret that this debate has not resulted in a resolution, as the people's party proposed through our colleague mr loránt vincze. it seems to me that, as we are celebrating this 30th anniversary, this parliament should not have been absent from a clear statement on the subject. the protection of minorities is not only a requirement of fundamental rights, it is a fundamental part of the architecture of peace in europe which the european union represents. but it's also a fundamental part of the architecture of international peace and security. the union sets very high global standards, but we must continue to move forward along this path. i would like to point out three points which i think it is important to stress here. firstly, as the un rightly says, rights belong to the people, and we must refer to the people and their dignity when we talk about respect for minorities. secondly, we cannot accept those who disguise themselves as minorities to separate, break up or divide societies. and thirdly, identity cannot be a factor of confrontation, neither of language, nor of creeds, nor of cultures. it cannot be a factor of confrontation in democratic and pluralist political systems, nor can it limit or abrogate the universality of human rights. identity with equality. identity with civic loyalty. identity with diversity in peaceful and democratic coexistence. i especially welcome the appointment of an envoy from the union for religious freedom, who we hope will take our strong convictions of freedom where they are needed most.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, let me quote a few sentences from the declaration: ‘states shall protect the existence and the national or ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic identity [...]’; ‘[...] the right to use their own language, in private and in public, freely and without [...] discrimination’; ‘[...] adequate opportunities to learn their mother tongue or to have instruction in the mother tongue’; ‘national policies [...] planned and implemented with due regard for the legitimate interests of persons belonging to minorities’. this is awesome. i mean, this is awesome. and i’m really happy to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the declaration. the only thing which overshadows joy is the fact that being – or i will say staying – russian from estonia or latvia, you have nothing to do with all these wonderful statements. no free use of language, no education, not even due regard. i know that in some member states minorities are taken as decent members of the society, but this is not the case everywhere and will not be the case until we as the union become part of this declaration.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thirty years after the united nations declaration, religious minorities are still being persecuted. there are still seven countries in the world where a person can be sentenced to death under criminal blasphemy laws, in clear violation of international law: the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. and from nigeria comes a unique opportunity for the world: musician yahaya sharif-aminu, who was convicted of blasphemy and sentenced to death by hanging in august 2020, has appealed to the supreme court of nigeria, challenging the constitutionality of the law. we call on president buhari to repeal these sharia-inspired laws that are contrary to the human rights of religious minorities, international law and nigeria's commitment to respect its treaties. it would be an important signal at home, against the islamist militias that are bleeding the country, and internationally, to all the states that use anti-blasphemy laws to target religious minorities.
madam president, please. thirty years after the un declaration on the rights of minorities, little progress has been made in the fight for minority rights. it would be important that the rights of indigenous national and linguistic minorities exist not only on paper but in reality. so the minority safepack, which was rejected by the european commission, would have been of enormous significance. however, european decision-makers are using a double standard, looking only at the problems of certain minorities under a magnifying glass. the anniversary of the declaration is a good opportunity to pay more attention to the hungarian community living in transcarpathia in difficult times. transcarpathian hungarians condemn the russian aggression, the bloodshed, the destruction and take part in the defense of ukraine. they all suffer the horrors and consequences of war, but they persist in their homelands amid power cuts, fighting for survival and supporting women and children fleeing war-torn regions of the country. the main aspiration of the hungarian minority in ukraine is to guarantee minority rights by law in accordance with the recommendations of the venice commission and to respect the community that wants to live in peace in its homeland.
a uachtaráin, 30 years have passed since the adoption of the declaration on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, and it continues to be the un’s most important instrument for minorities’ rights. it provided the essential framework to ensure that minorities’ voices can be heard and for diversity to be embraced. ‘united in diversity’ remains one of the main pillars of european values. while in many ways we have been successful in upholding these values, it is the unfortunate truth that there is still much work to be done. individuals from various minority groups still face discrimination, harassment and exclusion on a daily basis, and this is horrible. although it is important to celebrate this incredible milestone today, we must also ensure that it is being implemented effectively and that any gaps in its implementation are filled. on the topic of linguistic minorities, i would also like to shed light on my own country, ireland. earlier this year, irish gained full status as an official eu language. gaeilge is the official first language of the irish state, but unfortunately holds no official status in northern ireland. irish is the language of ireland and in my view it should be awarded the status to reflect this on the whole island. is linne an ghaeilge. go raibh maith agat. nollaig shona.
madam president, madam commissioner, to unite in diversity means recognition and respect. it makes for coexistence. it prevents conflict. today we have to lament the fact that in the union there are diversity, minority cultures and languages, that we suffer unthinkable discrimination against nationalities, languages or cultures identified with a state; minorities, such as the basque, which were from the beginning at the foundation of the european project. it is a mistake to ignore this problem and to solve it by passing judgments, which many experts denounce as having no connection with the law. striking citizens who want to vote, jailing promoters of parliamentary debates, reveals fear and the absence of solid projects and breach of basic democratic principles. political innovation, proximity, cooperation, participation and the efficiency of recognising these realities are solutions and not problems for our union. the second most supported proposal at the conference on the future of europe proposed a mechanism to resolve through dialogue, empathy and politics the conflicts that arise from the repression of this diversity. experience has shown the utter failure of other recipes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. one of the fundamental objectives proclaimed in the declaration is to call for respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of the income of the selfemployed. it is expressly called for measures to be taken to promote knowledge of the history of minorities. members of minorities should have adequate opportunities to share their personal experiences in order to promote mutual understanding and trust. this includes a proper culture of remembrance. the holocaust killed hundreds of thousands of sinti and roma, including six of my aunts and uncles. it is time that we had a witness with a romanian background speak in parliament for the next holocaust memorial day for the first time in our history, while we still have time.
(the speaker spoke in a non-official language)
yes, my words cannot be translated because they were in catalan. millions of european citizens are being treated, even in this parliament, as second-class european citizens – we’re second class, yes. and in the meantime, spanish meps come to this microphone and speak about diversity and how languages unite. no, this is cynicism and it’s intolerable. the truth is that the european union underpins the position of national majorities in each member state and works against, not in favour, of regionalised minority groups. until we get self-determination in the european union, our rights will not be respected.
madam president, i was going to use my minute and a half to denounce - and i do not want to stop doing so - the persecution of christians in the world and to appeal to the commission not to look the other way at the constant massacres of religious minorities, in this case christians, throughout the world, especially in an institution like the european parliament, an institution of the european union where we are constantly saying that we are united in diversity. and i do not want to stop raising my voice to say that we must give shelter, we must give protection and we must denounce every single killing of christians in the world, especially now that christmas is coming, since, sadly, in previous years we have seen massacres precisely on christmas day. but unfortunately, after listening to mrs ponsati, i can only complain about a number of things. firstly, mrs ponsati is a fugitive from spanish justice. and it is precisely because he wanted to alter the constitutional order. secondly, it is precisely the spanish-speaking children who want to be educated in spanish in catalonia who are not granted this right. spain is a wonderful country where there are many co-official languages, but in some areas of spain, families who want to educate their children in spanish, the language that we all spaniards share, simply cannot do it. they are harassed in every way and are prevented from exercising their fundamental right to educate their children in their mother tongue. so nothing mrs ponsati has said is true, and i deeply regret that this parliament is being used to say such things. - i'll see you later.
mr president, from a purely humanitarian point of view, we are concerned and concerned not only with the cruelty of the attacks on critical infrastructure, but also with how to be effective in helping people, in view of the snowfall and the temperatures below 20 degrees below zero, which are deadly if we do not help. thanks to team europe, we have been able to locate eur 19.7 billion, which has been materialized in more than 18 000 tonnes of aid, through the european union civil protection mechanism; more than 1 600 patients transferred to eighteen countries, through the flights of the medical evacuation centre; more than 800 power generators, located in hospitals and schools; light bulbs, more than 30 million in energy savings; the creation of the new rescue health and energy centre in poland, which will serve to facilitate the transport and storage of donations from third countries. assistance to winter shelters remains the top priority, especially after the facts we have known about damage to infrastructure, and we must support the work done by echo. of course i did. but it is also time to regulate the contribution of the private sector to humanitarian aid, which, together with other third countries, is allowing ukraine to have 75% of the needs covered. we therefore also call on this parliament not to neglect other major crises that are forgotten elsewhere in the world.
