madam president, mr president, 'relaxation, power, membership' is the motto of the french presidency of the european union. it perfectly describes the needs of today's european union, facing the health crisis, the rise of aggressive powers and climate disruption. a europe that relies on unity to lead through these difficult times. you mentioned a war of priorities, but i want to focus only on building a genuine european sovereignty and strategic autonomy. if we don't go forward with that, europe will always be blamed for being too little, too late. second, engaging with western balkans and eastern partnership countries. mr president, engaging with the western balkans is the best investment in security, values, in the european interest. countries from the western balkans are historically and geographically part of the europe, and they deserve to be part of today's european union. and thirdly, the conference on the future of europe. it is not a listening exercise. it is a project that can lead and renew european union for better. we need more... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to say to president macron that i prepared my speech in estonian, but sometimes it’s easier to talk to him directly about his comments. president macron, first of all, you pretty much attacked poland and hungary about the rule of law. we have to remind ourselves that all discussions started in 2015 and 2016, when poland refused to participate in the common migration policy, and nobody in brussels cared that the migration policy has been always part of the member states’ policy. it’s not part of eu policy. secondly, we are attacking the court system. that is too political. i just checked. in belgium, half of the judges in the constitutional court are appointed by their government – political government. thirdly, we are attacking the rule of law in poland and hungary and, at the same time, you, mr macron, a few weeks ago, said publicly that were going to piss off all the people who are not vaccinated. i thought that vaccination was a free choice. it’s good if you are vaccinated, but nobody can blame you, nobody can fire you and nobody can punish you if you’re not vaccinated. it’s freedom of choice and we are europe, not china.
mr president, the rapid and widespread development of digital services has been at the heart of the digital changes that impact our lives. many new ways to communicate, shop or access information online have appeared. ‘we need to ensure that european legislation evolves with them’. this is a quote from the commission, and i can’t agree more. the question is, how will we legislate? i come from estonia, a member state that is known for digital lifestyle, and that has been offering thousands of online services for its citizens for more than a quarter of a century. i have experienced benefits and i know the challenges. the aim of the digital services act is to create a safer digital space for the fundamental rights of users, and to ensure that the fundamental rights of users are protected, secure online services are provided, and a level playing field for businesses is established. i would like to congratulate my dear colleague christel schaldemose for her extraordinary job, and i would like to thank all the colleagues who contributed to this file. the text is balanced, the text is good, but it can be improved. in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs we have focused in particular on issues related to digital privacy, targeted advertising and content moderation. we now have the possibility to take much-needed action in all three of these areas, and to put citizens’ rights at the centre of the framework. on targeted advertising, it is essential to have greater transparency. i would urge colleagues to support measures to ensure that there is clear consent for behavioural advertising, and that this does not involve sensitive personal data. increasing the choice and transparency of recommender algorithms may seem obscure, but this is crucial to reduce disinformation and empower citizens’ control. when moderating content, we support stronger safeguards to ensure that upload filters do not become mandatory and that where automated tools are used, qualified staff decide on any action to be taken. to conclude, i hope that also in this file, the eu can show the light and global standards for regulating technology.
mr president, the threat landscape around us is becoming ever more complex, with the additional challenges being compounded by new and non—traditional threats. for our union to be able to provide security to our citizens and to contribute to maintaining peace and resolving conflicts in the world, it is imperative that we manage to harmonise our national threat assessments, agree on the level of our collective ambition and make the necessary investment to meet that ambition. europe must continue to maintain a values—based approach to foreign and security policy, and to support, defend, when necessary, the rules—based international order. to be successful, we need to back the values—based approach by unity, strength and resolve. principles and resolve without capabilities will not do the trick; neither will new capabilities without political will to use them when necessary. at this moment, when russian aggressive posturing is testing the foundation of european security architecture, we must display clarity of thought and words, but also readiness to turn our words into action.
i will now announce the results of the second voting session held yesterday, 15 february 2022. (the president read out the results of the vote.) 1_______________1 see minutes for details.
i have a couple of quick announcements in relation to the decision by the econ committee to enter into interinstitutional negotations, pursuant to rule 71(1) announced at the opening of the session on monday 14 february. we have received no requests for a vote in parliament by members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold. the committee may therefore start negotiations.
the next item is the debate on the european council and commission statements on eu-russia relations, european security and russia’s military threat against ukraine (2022/2518(rsp)). dear colleagues, as announced at the beginning of this part-session, our agenda of this week is dominated by the situation in ukraine. today, we are starting our day with the most pressing debate on eu-russia relations, european security and russia’s military threat against ukraine amidst intense international diplomatic exchanges to de-escalate the situation. i am pleased to welcome the president of the european council, charles michel, the president of the european commission, ursula von der leyen, and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, josep borrell fontelles, who are with us to discuss the latest developments on the ground in the wider context of european security and eu-russia relations. welcome to the plenary. on behalf of the european parliament, we have repeatedly expressed solidarity with the people of ukraine as they continue to face the uncertainty of the past weeks and fear of russian military aggression. what we are witnessing here is also a threat to peace in europe. i want to recall that, in september last year, the european parliament adopted a resolution that called for containing russia’s influence in the eu and its eastern neighbourhood and, in december last year, we also adopted a resolution where we criticised the actions of the russian authorities and underlined our preparedness to ‘agree swiftly on further joint action’, including sanctions. today, just after this debate, we will vote on granting eur 1.2 billion of ‘macro—financial assistance to ukraine’. i would like to thank the european commission for this timely proposal to support ukraine’s financial stability and resilience in the current difficult circumstances. also later today, the conference of presidents will discuss the declaration on the situation in ukraine. i would like to stress that, while we urge for a de-escalation of the current tension between ukraine and russia, this parliament stands ready to support swift, forceful and concrete action, in coordination with other european institutions. the union’s unity and close cooperation with our partners are key for the european union to play a strong role on the international stage and to contribute to peace and security. we would be interested to know how lessons learned from the current situation will also be reflected in the works on the future strategic compass for the eu. finally, i would like to thank you, president michel, president von den leyen and high representative borrell, for your engagement in the intense consultation on identifying ways to address the situation at the eu’s eastern borders and your efforts to uphold fundamental principles of the existing european security architecture. without further delay, i would like to give the floor to president of the european council, charles michel, for your statement.
president of the european council. – madam president, madam president of the commission, dear high representative, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, this week is expected to be an important geopolitical week for the european union. we will hold our joint summit with the african union. some 80 delegations of african and european leaders are arriving in brussels to negotiate a strategic partnership between our two continents. yet, the extremely serious situation in eastern europe has crept into all our agendas. allow me to lay out the range of actions taken by the eu to deal with this crisis, in very close coordination with our allies. and let me explain how the european council will approach our future decisions, whether in the short or longer term. ladies and gentlemen, russia has undertaken an unprecedented military escalation against ukraine. the russian authorities have repeatedly said they have no aggressive intentions towards this sovereign country. and this despite already annexing part of ukrainian territory, crimea, in 2014 and constantly undermining ukraine’s sovereignty, especially in eastern ukraine. encircling a country with an extraordinary deployment of military forces, never seen before, can only be seen as aggressive and threatening behaviour. this escalation not only endangers the stability and integrity of ukraine, it also threatens peace and security in europe and the rules-based international system. we, the eu, nato allies, member states, are working together at every level, on a daily basis, consulting politically and acting together. we are working at a level of intensity and quality that we have not seen for years. our unity is stronger than ever and we have adopted a strong and clear strategy in three areas. first, diplomacy. we have chosen to give every opportunity to the diplomatic route. european and american leaders have undertaken countless diplomatic initiatives and missions. we have activated negotiating platforms for dialogue with russia, such as nato, the osce, or the normandy format. and i would like to commend olaf scholz and emanuel macron for their important role. we have never stopped giving priority to diplomatic channels, even when these efforts did not seem to produce immediate tangible results. yet, in the last two days, russia has signalled that it may be open to diplomacy and we urge russia to take concrete and tangible steps towards de-escalation. because this is the condition for sincere political dialogue. we cannot eternally attempt diplomacy on one side while the other side is amassing troops. mesdames et messieurs, en sus de cet engagement diplomatique, nous travaillons sur le deuxième sujet, qui est la préparation des sanctions et des mesures restrictives, pour le cas où elles devraient être nécessaires. le conseil européen, au mois de décembre, a eu l’occasion de fixer avec clarté le cadre politique des 27 chefs d’état ou de gouvernement. nous considérons que, s’il devait y avoir une agression militaire contre l’ukraine, le coût pour la russie devrait être sévère et les conséquences devraient être massives; mais nous devons aussi être francs les uns par rapport aux autres: cela veut dire que les conséquences pour nous, européens, seraient lourdes également, et, le moment venu, si cela était nécessaire, nous devrions être prêts à assumer cette responsabilité. je remercie le travail préparatoire qui est mené par le haut représentant et par la commission. le conseil européen et les états membres, si nécessaire et le moment venu, auront l’occasion de se prononcer et de prendre les décisions politiques sur ce sujet, et cela en étroites coopération et coordination avec l’ensemble de nos partenaires et de nos alliés. enfin, mesdames et messieurs, il est un troisième point qui me paraît essentiel: c’est le point qui touche directement au soutien à l’ukraine et au peuple ukrainien. bien sûr, ce soutien doit être, comme il l’est depuis longtemps, politique. nous affirmons la souveraineté et l’intégrité territoriale de l’ukraine, nous le répétons. nous reconnaissons également cette aspiration européenne, cette aspiration euro-atlantique de l’ukraine. ce soutien est aussi financier, parce que les circonstances, on le mesure bien, provoquent d’ores et déjà un dommage significatif quotidien pour le système économique ukrainien. nous saluons la décision rapide annoncée par la commission: 1,2 milliard d’euros mobilisés sur le terrain de l’aide macrofinancière. je pense que nous allons devoir aller au-delà de cela, avec l’ensemble de nos alliés et de nos partenaires. c’est pourquoi je veux lancer ici cette proposition d’initiative de mettre en place, en étroite coopération avec l’ukraine et l’union européenne, une conférence des donateurs, afin de soutenir la robustesse économique de l’ukraine, envers qui cette menace brutale a été engagée, et de soutenir aussi le programme des réformes – tellement importantes – pour ce pays. enfin, mesdames et messieurs, je voudrais clôturer ces quelques mots par deux messages. le premier message, solennel, je veux l’adresser au peuple ukrainien. en 2014, le peuple ukrainien, fier et libre à maïdan, dans les sacrifices qui ont accompagné ce moment de cette histoire, de leur histoire, de notre histoire, a fait le choix de la liberté, a fait le choix de la démocratie libérale et a fait le choix de l’état de droit. l’union européenne, depuis ce moment, n’a cessé de soutenir et d’accompagner ce choix libre et souverain du peuple ukrainien. je veux affirmer avec solennité que l’union européenne restera du côté de l’ukraine. l’union européenne ne laissera pas tomber le peuple ukrainien. mesdames et messieurs, le deuxième message, je souhaite l’adresser à la russie et à ses dirigeants. le choix, aujourd’hui, est entre la guerre – et les sacrifices tragiques qui l’accompagnent – et le courage de l’engagement politique et de la négociation diplomatique. très clairement, l’union européenne est pour le choix de la diplomatie et de la négociation. nous saurons faire preuve de ce courage. nous saurons aussi faire preuve de la fermeté qui serait nécessaire si un autre choix devait être posé. je pense à ce courage de la négociation pour garantir des solutions durables, afin d’assurer la stabilité et la sécurité mutuelles. c’est le choix que nous devons aux peuples d’europe. c’est le choix que les dirigeants russes doivent au peuple russe. mesdames et messieurs, dans quelques heures, les 27 dirigeants européens seront réunis à bruxelles pour ce sommet avec l’afrique. je ne doute pas que nous aurons l’occasion d’exprimer la fermeté, l’unité et la force de l’europe pour porter nos valeurs et pour rester aux côtés du peuple ukrainien.
president of the commission. – madam president, president charles michel, high representative josep borrell, honourable members, the very reason why our union was created was to put an end to all european wars. so it is particularly painful for me to address you today, as we face the largest build-up of troops on european soil since the darkest days of the cold war. the people of ukraine are bravely trying to get on with their lives, but many of them keep emergency bags by their front doors, with basic clothes and important documents, in case they have to rush away from home. others have stockpiled food cans to prepare for the worst. some have even set up shelters in their basements. these are not stories from the 1940s. this is europe in 2022. and this is happening because of the deliberate policy of the russian leadership. ukraine is a sovereign country. it is making its own choices about its own future. but the kremlin doesn’t like this, and so it threatens war. and this is the essence of the current escalation. this is something we simply cannot accept. i think diplomacy has not yet spoken its last word, and we saw signs of hope yesterday. but now deeds have to follow those words. in the last seven years, ukraine has suffered from the kremlin’s constant aggression. but despite that heavy burden they have, ukraine has come such a long way. it has taken important steps to fight corruption, it has rebuilt its infrastructure, it has created new jobs for its talented youth. and our union has accompanied them, putting together the largest support package in our history. of course, the people of ukraine know that their democracy still has some flaws and issues to deal with, but ukraine today is a sovereign, more free, more strong country than in 2014, and this is precisely why the kremlin is threatening it again. we stand firm with ukraine. the idea that the kremlin should decide what ukrainians can or cannot desire we simply cannot accept. the idea of spheres of influence are ghosts of the last century. this crisis is about ukraine, yes, but it is also about much, much more. it is also about what it means to be a sovereign, independent and free country in the 21st century. it is about everyone’s right to live free from fear, and it’s about every country’s right to determine its own future. this is the message that our union has to send to the kremlin. like everyone in this room, i truly hope that the kremlin will decide not to unleash further violence in europe. yesterday, russia was certainly sending conflicting signals. on the one hand, the authorities announce russian troop pullbacks. on the other hand, the duma votes for the formal recognition of donetsk and luhansk as independent republics. but i still strongly believe in diplomacy. it is good to hear yesterday’s commitment to the minsk agreement. president macron and chancellor scholz have travelled to kyiv and moscow. several others are also speaking to both sides. i am constantly exchanging with all of them, as well as with president biden, prime minister trudeau and prime minister johnson. i must really say the transatlantic community has not been so united for a long time. let me just mention one recent episode. earlier this month, russian foreign minister lavrov wrote 36 letters to each and every member state of the european union and nato ally with a series of demands. he received two letters in response: one from josep borrell, on behalf of the european union, and one from jens stoltenberg, on behalf of nato. the european union and its transatlantic partners are united in this crisis, and our call to russia is crystal clear: do not choose war. a path of cooperation between russia and us is still possible. but let’s stay vigilant. despite yesterday’s news, nato has not yet seen signs of any russian troop reduction and, should the kremlin choose violence against ukraine, our response will be strong and united. the european commission and the eeas have been working closely with all member states to prepare a robust and comprehensive package of potential sanctions, and we have worked in very close coordination with our friends from the united kingdom, the united states and canada. let me say that in these weeks we have built a unity of purpose that is truly remarkable, both within the european union and with our partners. in case of russian aggression, europe’s reaction will be swift and robust. we are not just talking about freezing assets and banning travel for russian individuals. russia’s strategic interest is to diversify its one-sided economy and to close its current gaps. but for this, they need technologies in which we have a global leadership: high-tech components for which russia is almost entirely dependent on us. so our sanctions can bite very hard, and the kremlin knows this as well. on another topic, we are also ready in case the russian leadership decides to weaponise the energy issue. we see that, at a time of high demand, gazprom is restricting its gas supplies to europe. we see a ten-year low in storage by gazprom. we see no sales on the spot market. this is strange behaviour for a company: that, in times of skyrocketing demand and prices, they are not trying to maximise their profits. this behaviour has already damaged russia’s credibility as a reliable energy supplier. for weeks we have been in talks with a number of countries that are ready to step up their exports of liquefied natural gas to the european union. in january, this resulted in record deliveries of lng gas – more than 120 vessels, that is the equivalent of ten billion cubic metres of lng – and, on top, we’ve done our homework. since the annexation of crimea, we have increased the number of lng terminals in the european union. we have reinforced our pan-european pipeline and electricity interconnector network, and the good part in this story is that these investments in infrastructure we have made will in future be the backbone for the possibility to supply with green hydrogen. so they are future proof. during the last weeks, we have looked into all possible disruption scenarios in case russia decides to partially or completely disrupt gas supplies to the european union, and i can say today that our models show that, with all the measures we have taken, we are now on the safe side for this winter. on top of this, we have also developed, with a number of member states, a new set of emergency measures which we could trigger in case of complete disruptions. but one of the main lessons we have already learned from this crisis is that we must diversify our energy sources and we must get rid of the dependency on russian gas. we must heavily invest in renewables. our alternatives are renewables because, though renewables are clean and good for the climate, they are also home grown and good for our independence. that’s where our future lies. honourable members, this is a crisis that has been created by moscow. we have not chosen confrontation. we are hoping for the best, but we are prepared for the worst. we now have two distinct futures ahead of us. in one, the kremlin decides to wage war against ukraine, with massive human costs – something we thought we had left behind after the tragedies of the twentieth century. moscow’s relations with us would be severely damaged. tough sanctions would kick in, with dire consequences on the russian economy and its prospects of modernisation. but another future is possible: a future in which russia and europe cooperate on their shared interests. a future where free countries work together in peace. a future of prosperity, built on the respect for the fundamental principles that have been enshrined in the un charter and in the european security architecture since the helsinki final act. this is my aspiration, and i am sure the russian people share this aspiration too. it is now up to the kremlin to decide. but whatever path they decide to take, we will stand our ground. europe will be united on the side of ukraine, on the side of peace, and on the side of europe’s people. long live europe!
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy madam president of the european parliament, mr president of the european council, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, what happens in ukraine will determine the future of mankind. all human beings should be concerned about what happens there. because if the law of the strongest is imposed again and one country can threaten another and can attack it and disintegrate it territorially, we will reverse history. the european union's great success is precisely that it has renounced war as a means of resolving conflicts. and that's why we have to be with ukraine, trying to prevent a war on our borders. and that is a fundamental part of what we call the common security and defence policy, which i have the honour of trying to develop. and the presence here today, in this house, of the institutions of the union: the european council with its president, the european commission with its president and the council, which i have the honour to represent and whose foreign affairs and defence formations i chair, marks european unity in the face of possible russian aggression against ukraine. and this unity has become stronger and more evident these days. and i think that's one of the great positive consequences of this crisis. there has been a common approach and all the european states have responded unanimously to give a response which must be expressed in what we call sanctions or coercive measures, according to the treaty. sanctions to be adopted by the council on a proposal from the high representative and which will have been drawn up with the invaluable cooperation of the european commission, to measure their costs and their consequences. and, of course, under the political direction of the european council. and that will happen if russia attacks ukraine. but let me stress the fundamental aspect of our union, which is the most positive consequence of this crisis; a crisis which has been based on the threat to the territorial integrity of a state; a crisis which affects the security structure in europe, which cannot be called into question through threats; and a crisis which affects the right of each sovereign state to choose freely its security structures and its international relations. allow me to talk a little bit about what the role has been of european diplomacy in these events. it has been said that europe was "missing in action". we have heard that europe was missing in action and things are happening without our presence, without our participation, led by the united states, who are negotiating over our head. i think that we have to respond to this criticism, which seems at all unfounded for several reasons. first, because member states of the union have been consistently debating the issue of security in europe and ukraine, and we have achieved remarkable unity. because several member states, france and germany, have taken a number of political initiatives to promote a peaceful settlement of the crisis, and these initiatives have been carried out in coherence with the positions of the union and in conditions of greater transparency. thirdly, because russia deliberately tried to ignore the existence of the european union by sending letters only to the united states and nato in december, considering that we are completely irrelevant and have nothing to say about the security issues in europe. for moscow, security in europe is being defined in washington. later, when they noticed that despite this dismissive attitude, nothing was going on, mr lavrov finally decided to send a letter to the 27 member states that he had ignored until then. why such a uturn on the russian position? for two reasons. first, because they realized that the european front was not cracked and atlantic solidarity was very strong. so i tried the manoeuvre, which was to send letters to the 27 member states, hoping to have 27 different answers. but in this case, mr lavrov didn't succeed because we sent him a single letter, saving him the time to read 27 letters, all of them equal. just one one letter representing the position of the european union on behalf of the 27 member states. this is a good example of how we europeans can work together, and together with our allies, with the us and other like-minded countries with which we have had a continuous and very much positive coordination. so we have been present, participating in the negotiations if we can call them negotiations, or at least conversations until now. so what can we envisage next? well, we don't know. nobody knows. there are encouraging signs, but also very much worrisome events like the vote in the duma asking putin to recognize the independence of the two let's say republics, in the donbas. we don't know what putin is going to do. but what is clear is that we have to continue to offer both things at the same time - the will to negotiate, to be ready to participate in talks because yes, russia also has security concerns and that has to be taken into consideration. on the other hand, to prepare our capacity to respond our deterrence tools, sanctions as the president of the commission and the president the council had been referring to. on that, we have been working and on that we are ready to act. but most of all, we are ready to continue negotiations, talks, in order to look for a diplomatic solution to the worst crisis that europe has experienced since the end of the cold war. i repeat again, this crisis not only affects ukrainians, and not only europeans it affects the direction of humankind.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i'm glad you're all here. it is important that we europeans assess the situation together and discuss it today. these days we are talking about a basic promise, the basic promise of the european union, namely the basic promise of peace. we can hardly imagine the fear of the ukrainians, the anxiety that is there at the moment. but this is not just about ukraine, it's about us, securing peace. the first question we must ask ourselves is: what is this conflict really about? some people try to say that this is about nato's eastward expansion, that it is about security interests. i don't think that's what you mean. in the 1980s, people in gdansk took to the streets, fighting for freedom and democracy. then, in the late 1980s, in dresden, in the baltic, in budapest, the fall of the iron curtain, the collapse of communism. then the maidan in kiev, where people fought and died for freedom and democracy, and now, a few years ago in minsk, belarus, where people took to the streets for this idea. the idea of freedom is winning. it moves forward step by step, unstoppably. i was myself at maidan in 2014, i talked to the young people there. and that is why we europeans must be clear about one thing: we stand with the people who stand for freedom and democracy. it may be that this is another moment where we have to say: this is about our core values and we will defend them whatever it takes. ladies and gentlemen, the greatest threat to putin is not nato troops, but a free, democratic ukraine. that's the biggest threat to him. the second question we have to answer is: what is our job now? how can we make peace? putin only understands the language of power. and today that means we need a clear bill to present to him: the cost is high! for my political party, the european people's party, i can make it clear that nord stream 2 cannot be connected to the grid if there is an escalation. the exclusion of russian banks from the international financial market is inevitable for us. and the restriction on high-technology supplies already announced by the president of the commission is on that list. but let's be honest: paris is in the election campaign, in germany you are not able to take "nord stream 2" in your mouth. we are not strong on these issues at the moment. that is why i hope that we will be stronger, that we will formulate the bill we are presenting clearly. any uncertainty is motivating putin to continue on his path. the third question we have to ask ourselves is: how can we talk to putin? is there a way to compromise? dialogue is important, the pronunciation is important. but there is no room for negotiation on the basic principles. the sovereignty of states is inviolable. there are no zones of influence where putin makes decisions. and war is not a means of politics in europe today. the council of ministers has also adopted a resolution on the situation in crimea. and the fourth question we have to ask ourselves is: hasn't putin already achieved a hell of a lot? he has a free hand in belarus. lukashenko is now a puppet of the kremlin, and they're doing joint military exercises. the duma is calling for the recognition of eastern ukraine as a state, deepening the division of ukraine. in fact, this is already the reason for further sanctions, which we must now put in place. and a few weeks ago we gave the sakharov prize to alexei navalny here in the european parliament. now we get the news that he's going to jail for another 15 years, without a legal basis, without a fair trial. putin is trying to lock up the opposition and the idea of freedom in russia. and that alone is another reason to discuss sanctions against russia. all this is happening under the saber-rattling of putin that we are witnessing, under the threat of this great danger of war. the fifth question i want to raise is our own role as the european union. and let's be honest, we are not sufficiently prepared for these storms of world politics that we are experiencing again. we're not prepared enough. in geneva, no european politician is at the table when the european security architecture is being discussed and decided. germany and france are trying to coordinate, but it might work better in coordination. we know that the question of whether viktor orbán or some others might be a different person and take different positions is still open in the case of sanctions. and i must also criticise the fact that at this historic stage there is no eu summit where the heads of state and government meet and are able to send a strong signal that we stand by ukraine. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we must finally develop our strength in foreign and security policy, end unanimity, build a cyber defence brigade to defend our critical infrastructure. and we need at last a real foreign minister who is able to speak with real force for the whole of the european union. i myself wake up every morning and think to myself: can it be that we are talking about war again? i think that's the case with a lot of europeans. but i tell you, there is one in moscow who is ready to use war, and he has proved it many times. we will wake up to a new european reality, we will wake up to a new european union. and we need to prepare for that now. peace and freedom are the promises of the european union. 44 million ukrainians are waiting for solidarity. we as the epp and i think parliament are behind them.
it is more than eight years since the revolution of dignity in maidan square, since the ukrainian people began their struggle to get closer to the project of freedoms represented by the european union. we have been your most loyal partner in economic integration, support for the reform process and defence of ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. today the european parliament reaffirms its commitment and support for ukraine. the challenge that russia poses to all europeans, in the end, is to give us the opportunity to strengthen our unity and our determination, and also to defend our interests and those of the continent as a whole. but let us not forget that in order to stop putin's imperial spirit and hostility to human rights, ukraine and the european union must also meet their own obligations. for our part, we must continue to support all the diplomatic fora for the settlement of the conflict in ukraine, such as the normandy quartet and the trilateral contact group. in order to reach a negotiated solution, the european union must be effectively represented in the negotiations because, as mr borrell rightly argues, we cannot be a neutral spectator in those matters which directly affect our own security. no region in the world has a security system as fair as that of europe. the basic principles enshrined in the charter of paris and the helsinki final act, all of which were signed by russia, are the only ones capable of guaranteeing security in europe. the territorial integrity and sovereignty of states, the inviolability of frontiers, the right of states to choose their own alliances and the peaceful settlement of disputes are indispensable achievements, because the progress of europeans and europeans will only be a reality if there is security. no one in the european union can deny the need for greater strategic autonomy or our vocation to be a world leader. we must not allow putin and his blackmail to bring europe to its knees. let us build up our response capabilities to new threats, make progress in the short term on the creation of strategic reserves and joint gas purchases and continue to lead the way towards the ultimate goal of building a new global energy order based on renewable and socially just energy. it's time for diplomacy, yes, but it's also time for deterrence. any further aggression against ukraine will have enormous consequences for russia. until a war starts, it can be avoided. the rejection of war and the will to build peace is the essential basis of the european project. we cannot give up the most admirable achievements of our time: freedom and democracy, which have given dignity to the lives of millions of human beings. president zelensky must also maintain his commitment to the path of democracy. eradicating corruption, reforming the judiciary and consolidating democratic institutions are the best weapons against russia. because putin's only fear is that democracy and our social model will reach moscow's red square. we must all be clear about one thing, and that is that winning by force is not convincing, and in life you have to convince. putin will not convince because to convince means to persuade and to persuade he needs something that he lacks at the moment: he needs reason and law. so we have a lot of work to do. ukraine can be sure that the social democratic family will stand by it. the greatest tribute we can pay to the people who lost their lives in maidan square and in the donbas valley is our commitment to a stable, prosperous and democratic neighborhood.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, ukraine is under threat. a country that just as any other country wants to decide on its own future but is bullied by its big neighbour. but this is not just a threat to ukraine. it’s also an attack on the basic idea of how states relate to each other. it’s a threat to international rules and to european security. and it saddens me profoundly that we have to debate this dangerous development in our eastern neighbourhood today. this european parliament was born out of the devastating experience of war and violence. the eu was built as a peace project and a model of democratic cooperation. president putin’s nationalist and imperial course of action and suppression runs contrary to the mere idea of our common union. putin’s actions therefore challenge us as europeans, and we as members of this parliament, carry a historic responsibility to stand up and clearly condemn russia’s threats of aggression. as the eu, as its parliament, we stand united against the russian threat and in full support with ukraine. the people of ukraine have our support for choosing their own path for living in peace and for undertaking reforms that will transform their country for the better. we need to be prepared for sanctions against individuals, entities and sectors in russia. i am talking, for example, about freezing assets, about entry bans, and yes, i am also talking about nord stream 2. this pipeline must be part of our common sanction regime. and yes, sanctions have repercussions, also for ourselves, but we must act in face of an aggression. as a union we need to reduce our dependency on russia, especially when it comes to energy. we have the technologies to do so and we have ample supplies of sun and wind. what energy we use is a geo-strategic decision. and we need to make the right one. let’s not forget that the ukrainian people have suffered greatly already because of the russian aggression going on for years in eastern ukraine. almost 15 000 people have died. more than a million ukrainians had to flee their homes. conflicts can only be solved by diplomatic means. russia must withdraw its troops and end the threat of invasion. it must return to the table of frank and peaceful negotiations. negotiations that must be based on international law, mutual respect and a common vision for peace on our common european continent. this is a key moment for international peace, stability and security. now is our time to show through words and through actions that we stand united as one, and that the people of ukraine can count on us.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president von der leyen, mr president michel, i believe that the message which the european institutions must give to the ukrainian people today is a message of solidarity and we cannot allow room for the ambiguities which europe and the west have very often expressed on this issue in the past and also in recent discussions. i have listened carefully to what president von der leyen has said, to what president michel has said and to what high representative borrell has said and i do not agree with the optimism of how europe has acted in this situation. there still remains much ambiguity in the approach we take on the ground to the russian question and the threats that the putin regime poses to our borders today. we must firmly and resolutely make it clear to ukraine that europe is prepared to do anything to protect its territorial integrity and its freedom, and these are principles on which we cannot compromise. we must also carefully analyse what our mistakes were and why there is this ambiguity, why europe has not been able to give a united and concrete message in the face of this crisis. clearly there have been some mistakes. we have talked about the dependence of our member states on the russian regime, but these situations are not new, we have not discovered them today, they are situations we have known for years and we have done nothing to reduce this dependence. ambiguity is a problem, because it is true that the dynamics of dictatorial regimes are difficult for us to understand as we belong to free countries, but it is equally true that we are able to understand very well that our weaknesses and our ambiguities give space to threats, give space and power to those who want to bring war to our borders. it is sad to see that twenty years after the last war we experienced in europe, the war in kosovo and the war in the balkans, there are still winds of war blowing from our borders, and this is a failure of all of us, a failure of europe, a failure of the west. that is why i believe that what we must avoid today is war, an escalation leading to a military conflict, which no one wants and which no one is able to face today. but we must firmly correct the mistakes we have made in europe and we must also have the courage to say that this ambiguity is very clear, but we very often hide it under the carpet, such as the fact that putin's first lobbyist in europe is unfortunately a former head of government of the most important country in this european union. i believe that there is still room to work on a peaceful solution, without compromising on our principles, that there is room to roll back the hands, that there is room to do so and to show that the west is united, but europe must leave behind its ambiguities, it must give a message of unity with its western allies and together, within the framework of nato, we must resolve this situation. otherwise, our ambiguity will always be a weakness and we will never be able to play a positive role in resolving conflicts and protecting the freedoms we should be promoting.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, when in 2008, the russian army invaded georgia, poland’s president, lech kaczyński, gathered political leaders from ukraine, estonia, latvia and lithuania in tbilisi and at the public meeting, he said these memorable words, ‘today it is georgia. tomorrow ukraine, then the baltic states. and in the future, maybe poland.’ well, unfortunately, these words are not only memorable, but they sound prophetic, too. but, there is a discrepancy between east european and west european political sensibilities. for most east europeans, russian imperialism is a fact that has determined and continues to determine their very existence. for the west europeans, it is simply news in the media, sometimes sensational and exciting, but generally, it is a rather tedious story in a far—off land, presumably made up by some political fantasies. to make the matter worse, russia has become an object of deep attraction for many europeans and additionally, an engaging partner in power-politics, also in economic relations, not to mention the notorious nord stream 1 and nord stream 2. the fact that former chancellors of germany and austria, former prime ministers of france and finland have been working for russian businesses, were employed by russian businesses, is meaningful. these gentlemen and many others too, also ladies let me add, are not mavericks, but they represent what is typical of a large segment of european political establishments. to call a spade a spade, europe is a weak link in the line of defence against russian imperialism. no wonder that putin likes to humiliate european politicians and has been quite successful in this. those politicians desire to accommodate russia and are keen on conducting business as usual with her, and this is the reason why they de facto accepted the annexation of the crimea. well, recent signals from europe and also from outside europe could be rather mixed. but there is a lot of reassuring talk about the hardening of the european position vis—à—vis russia. we’ve heard a lot of tough words today, a really significant eu pep talk, but how hard this position has really become, not in words but in deeds, we will know in the weeks and months to come.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. europe is looking into the abyss of a war between russia and ukraine, the price of which would be paid first and foremost by the civilian population. the key to overcoming this crisis, which is calling into question and threatening the entire european peace order, has been diplomacy, de-escalation and mutual verbal and military disarmament from the outset. this is true not only of the current efforts to secure peace, but also of the past years, in which relations between the west and russia have systematically deteriorated. the exclusion of russia from the g8, the cancellation of the meetings of the nato-russia council, the cancellation of the meetings in the normandy format and the non-implementation of the minsk agreements are the expression of a mutual failure of diplomacy. a new cold war has been unleashed on europe, threatening to turn into a hot war. and in a remarkable article, mr weber, a well-known german news magazine looked back to the time when the western powers were negotiating with the then soviet union just before the self-dissolution of the eastern bloc, and therefore detailed that several of the soviet union's participants made verbal promises that nato would not expand an inch to the east. we know the reality: 14 countries, mainly from central and eastern europe, have joined nato since 1990. the geostrategic architecture of the world -- and you can call it whatever you want -- has changed in the last 30 years. all sides must work towards a peace order which recognises the multilateral nature of our world, which is based on international law and which takes into account the legitimate security interests of all actors. it is not nato that is the international policing power. this is still the role of international law and the united nations. and i would have been very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, if this had been clearly expressed in this debate. the resolution of the present crisis requires the unconditional commitment of all parties to preserve peace. russia must guarantee the security of its neighbours, just as ukraine is required to implement the minsk agreements. the absurd idea of further nato expansion eastwards is not contributing to security in europe, but is destabilising it. peace in europe will not be achieved against, but only with russia - to refer here again to the negotiations between the german chancellor and vladimir putin yesterday. but to be clear, any russian attack on ukraine would be a violation of international law. it would be as damaging to russian interests in the long term as it would be to a new european peace order and the putin government must know that. but we know from bitter experience that successful policy of détente cannot be based on the claims of intelligence services. rumors are already part of escalation, and if you haven't learned that yet, just listen to me: facts are the basis of peace. we also know that the us gas companies are booming in the crisis. the profits are swelling, and investors are celebrating at the expense of european security. the lesson to be learned from this is that european security interests do not necessarily coincide with us interests. european interests must be determined by us here, without transatlantic obedience. madam president of the commission, european energy sovereignty is not based on russian or american gas, but on the rapid expansion of renewable energies. the peace in europe must be decided in these, our european capitals, not in washington or at nato headquarters.
madam president, please. the security of the european union and its member states is closely linked to the security of ukraine. ukraine is an important strategic partner and a direct neighbour of the european union, and the fragile situation on the ukrainian-croatian border is a cause for serious concern. hungary sees the resolution of the tension in the settlement of the situation by negotiation through diplomacy, and therefore it has taken an icebreaker role in order to create a dialogue and avoid war. a peaceful solution is the only right way forward and there is no alternative to implementing the minsk agreements. we must avoid panic, which has already caused enormous financial losses, and the diplomats' escape is not a good message, and we must avoid any measures that could escalate the situation. the conflict has already claimed thousands of lives, made millions of people internally displaced, and posed major challenges to ukraine, its people, and transcarpathian hungarians among them, including unemployment, high energy prices, inflation, and the coronavirus pandemic. we must therefore do everything we can to promote peace and support ukraine to become a stable, democratic, viable and independent country, both economically and politically.
mr president, may this be clear to all: ukraine is part of the european family, as is belarus. ukraine’s security is europe’s security, and it’s of concern to all of us. the military threat posed by russia to ukraine only confirms the hopelessness and aggressiveness of the kremlin. i very much hope that the west has seized the opportunity to learn the lesson of unity, solidarity and common response. we will need this lesson in the future, because putin seems to have neither the will nor the interest to change. by giving ukraine the opportunity to reform on the basis of european experience and partnership, we are supporting and investing in the future of a democratic and prosperous ukraine. we are enabling the country and its people to follow the path they embarked on back in 2014 with the revolution of dignity. ukrainians decide their own future, and i am strongly convinced that the future of ukraine is not finlandisation, but europeanisation.
mr president, i was listening very carefully to the speeches, and i would like to mention two things in particular. first of all, ms von der leyen mentioned that russia is now weaponising energy policy. well, i would like to say we told you about five or six years ago that if we’re going to build up the nord stream 2 between germany and russia, of course they will weaponise it. that is obvious. there is no energy policy without other policies. this is also very clear with economic policy and defence policy, but the germans wanted to build nord stream 2 with russia, and here we are now. of course they’re weaponising it. germany doesn’t like to be surprised. it’s a bit ridiculous. secondly, everybody else mentions that we are ready for anything. ms von der leyen and mr borell also mentioned that we are ready for every scenario. hopefully we are, but, on the other hand, if you look at the facts, when estonia just wanted to give some military help to ukraine, who blocked it? the german government. the german government said ‘no, no, no you will not give it, because it was our military equipment in the 80’s – in the soviet time – when it belonged to east germany, and we will not give it to ukraine.’ so, i really don’t see this harmony inside of the eu. of course, it’s a very clear fact that russia is a threat, but i really don’t think that we have to panic here. however, we have to be ready for everything. that is also obvious. when the previous speakers said that war is senseless and pointless, of course for us it’s pointless, but we are taking it too emotionally. we don’t really think about what russia really wants to have. even if you look at the troops – 135 000 troops next to the ukrainian border – this is not enough to occupy all of ukraine. ukraine is a totally different country compared to what it was eight years ago. they have made really good progress on the right side. but 135 000 troops are easily enough to carry out some small actions in eastern ukraine. if you look at what they’re doing in the russian duma, they are now legally recognising donetsk and luhansk as independent countries. it takes only a few days. maybe when they are at risk, they will ask for military help, because the ukrainian government will maybe attack those independent countries. these 135 000 troops are easily enough for small military actions.
mr president, we have said always that we support ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. and inevitably, the notion of sovereignty includes a country’s right to choose its own alliances. ukraine’s euro-atlantic aspirations are fully legitimate, no threat to anyone, and their realisation must be conditional only on ukraine’s performance, not a third-country veto. russia’s massive military build-up on ukraine’s borders has brought our continent closer to a large-scale military conflict than at any time since the end of the cold war. it’s only natural that we want to de-escalate the situation, but we must act in a way that will really result in de-escalation. appeasing the bully or consigning to her more territorial control will not bring about sustainable de-escalation. in fact, it would only give the aggressor a signal that the intimidation tactic works. what we need is a strong collective deterrent posture by the community of democratic nations. deterrence is not by nature escalatory. its aim is to discourage the potential aggressor by changing her calculus, by delivering an unambiguous message that the cost of waging an act of aggression far outweighs any benefit it might be expected to bring. i do believe that president putin is a rational player who will not rush into a conflict that is bound to bring him more pain than gain. a strong deterrent posture consists of two main parts. the first is a clear and united message to russia that a new aggression will result in a decisive response from the international community. inevitably, that response must include a package of crippling sanctions. the second part is bolstering ukraine’s ability to defend itself. again, i want to stress that a more confident ukraine with stronger defensive capabilities will reduce, not increase, the likelihood of a new aggression by russia. we must be strong and united. it may appear to some that doing nothing is a peaceful act. in reality, nothing is further from the truth.
mr president, i am proud at how strong and united we are today, but we have to be honest: we have been painfully slow and painfully late waking up to the true nature of putin’s russia. i hope that today we finally truly understand the urgency and the existential nature of the current situation. if we do, it is imperative that we support ukraine in every way possible without holding anything back. this includes lethal defensive equipment, economic and humanitarian aid, help to refugees and, yes, also launching an honest and successful accession process for ukraine to join our union. regarding sanctions on russia, for as long as the criminal ideology of putinism remains in power in russia, we have to go beyond punishing individuals and take the strategic decision of systemically weakening russia’s economy and industrial base. this is in our vital security interest. yes, sanctions hit ordinary russians too, and they are not enemies, but let’s admit it, it is primarily the responsibility of the russian people to make sure that their mad tsar cannot kill innocent people abroad. we should fully expect and, when possible, encourage the russian people to take that responsibility seriously. slava ukraini!
the next item on the agenda is the debate with the prime minister of estonia, kaja kallas, on the eu’s role in a changing world and the security situation of europe following the russian aggression and invasion of ukraine (2022/2583(rsp)). let me start by saying dear prime minister, dear kaja, dear colleagues, the session today is devoted to the one of the most pressing issues – the eu’s changing role in a changing world. putin’s invasion shattered the peace our generation has known. it has changed everything. and europe’s response must be proportionate to the serious, real and growing threat to our collective security. so we need to re-assess the european union’s role in this new world. we need to boost our investment in defence and innovative technologies. this is the time for us to take decisive steps to ensure the security of all europeans. the time to build a real security and defence union and reduce our dependencies on the kremlin. what we have seen so far in terms of european coordination, solidarity and unity is unprecedented and this must be the blueprint of what we do going forward. our people and our states have welcome more that 1.5 million ukrainians into our communities, our homes and our hearts. we have matched massive sanctions with practical solidarity in a show of european values. and i know we can go further still and we must all do what we can. we have with us today the prime minister of estonia, kaja kallas. kaja, thank you for accepting our invitation to address the parliament and the people of europe as part of our new ‘this is europe’ debates, where different eu leaders can be present to discuss our common agenda. we are also so pleased to welcome you back among us now as prime minister of estonia, a member state of the european union that shares a near-300 km border with russia. let me assure you, prime minister, that you will find us together in opposing this invasion, in ensuring a clear response to dealing with the kremlin and in ensuring that democracy prevails. we stand together for ukraine. we stand together with ukraine.
prime minister of estonia. – honourable president metsola, esteemed members of parliament, dear guests, it is an honour and a privilege to be speaking here today. the european parliament is not only a house of european democracy; it has also been my political base for four years. so here i feel at home, i feel among friends. sadly, our fellow europeans in ukraine cannot say the same. they are fighting for their homeland, for their loved ones, their freedom to choose their own destiny. the ukrainian armed forces are putting up a fierce resistance that president putin did not expect. ordinary people are on the streets showing the flag to the invading army, inviting them to go home. ukrainian farmers have become famous for towing captured tanks back home. one story circulating on social media even speaks of a woman who downed a russian drone by throwing a jar of pickles at it. later she contested that it was a jar of pickled tomatoes. ‘how’, asks the commentator, ‘did they expect to occupy this country?’ at the same time, many others are streaming across borders, over two million have reached safety in the european union. these refugees will keep coming. in the words of one humanitarian worker, ‘in a conflict, always watch which way the refugees are going’. in the current war, they are headed for the european union, not for russia. putin’s war is an act of raw military aggression against an independent and sovereign country that wants nothing more than to fulfil its own european dream. the aim is to terrorise civilians. we have seen it before in grozny, we have seen it in aleppo. kindergartens, hospitals, residential buildings are targeted, in contravention of the international humanitarian law. you have been doomscrolling on your phones just like i have. so i do not need to tell you of the atrocities taking place now, everyday, in places like kharhiv, mariopul as well as kyiv, where many people are without water, electricity, food. putin’s war has also left ordinary russians without access to the truth, they are living in isolated infospace. we thought that in times of the internet this was no longer possible, but it is. our task is to break the wall of lies. it is a complicated task, we need to mobilise our technological potential to win the war for truth. and it goes without saying that global internet platforms have a huge role to play. if you allow me madam president, i would also like to address the russian people directly. dear russian friends, the european union is not acting against you. our measures are intended to isolate president putin and his government, which is conducting a brutal war against ukraine. you are now seeing only the beginnings of a deprivation which will become much worse as our sanctions kick in. your government is already instituting practices that are familiar to me from the soviet times. like censorship. like threatening journalists with 15-year prison sentences for speaking about the war. like rationing of foodstuffs. like asking teachers to report on the political sympathies of their pupils and their parents. global companies are pulling out of russia, airlines are no longer flying, you can no longer use your visa and mastercards. none of this is directed against you. it is directed against president putin and his government. we understand that it hurts you, but it also hurts us. it hurts you because autocrat does not care for the people, he only cares for his power. that is something that is so hard to understand in a democratic world. last year’s nobel peace prize laureate novaya gazeta, editor-in-chief dmitri muratov, called this a question between, and i quote, ‘people for the state, or the state for the people’. dear russian friends, we continue to hope for a democratic and stable russia that is respectful of its neighbours and is governed by a rule of law. madam president, dear members, since the 24 february, which coincidentally was the 104th anniversary of estonia’s independence, the world has changed. president putin’s invasion of ukraine has ushered in a period of insecurity on our continent that we have not seen since 1939. and like we saw after the second world war, our world will not return to the status quo ante. russia’s relationship with the outside world will be different. how to restore the trust in respecting international law and order? european attitudes toward security will be different and our institutional set-ups will need to adjust. and we might just have re-discovered what the liberal, international rules-based order was all about in the first place. so in short, we will, in the future, speak about before times and the after times. the free world has already begun to respond and the european union has been at the forefront of this response, which itself is a welcome change. the eu is not normally seen to be a particularly nimble organisation, but in terms of security, we have changed more in the last couple of weeks than we have in the last 30 years. we have imposed three packages of tough sanctions on top of those existing already since russia’s invasion of the donbas and annexation of crimea in 2014. we have frozen assets, stopped moscow’s access to its reserves held abroad and thrown russia out of swift. we have closed our airspace to russian registered, owned and operated aircraft. we have shut down disinformation channels masquerading as media outlets. and we have acted to use the european peace facility to send a half a billion euros in much needed defensive weapons and non-lethal aid to ukraine. the eu has acted with an urgency, conviction and unity that has surprised president putin and the world, and i dare say we have also surprised ourselves. we have, indeed, acted as a geopolitical union. our citizens have responded as well by opening their pocketbooks and their hearts. by welcoming refugees, often into their own homes. by volunteering on humanitarian missions. by collecting food, clothing and medicines for those fleeing the war. let’s not forget about the irish fishermen. our citizens are showing a generosity of spirit that makes me proud to be estonian and proud to be european. i know a bit about the kindness of strangers. as many of you know, i am the child of deportees whom stalin sent away to siberia. my mother was just six-months old when she was deported on a cattle car, along with her mother and grandmother, to what estonians call the cold land. it was a stranger who gave my grandmother a jar of milk that kept my mother alive during this journey. it was strangers who dried the baby’s diapers on their skin as it was the only warm place in the cattle car. and it was strangers who helped in untold ways when they were allowed to return to estonia. so you could say we estonians have some experience in being deported and fleeing wars. and we also have some experience with russia, which we have been trying to share with the european union since we joined. it was 78 years ago today when the red army bombed my home city tallinn to the ground. but my mother, the same baby who took her first trip abroad to siberia, always taught me that it was impolite to say i told you so. madam president, dear members, we are in this for the long haul. we will have to exercise strategic patience, because peace is not going to break out tomorrow. russia expects us to make a step back soon. as dmitri medvedev explained to putin in a recent public meeting of the russian security council and i quote: ‘sooner or later they – the west – will get tired of their own initiatives, they will come to ask us about returning to discussions and negotiations regarding all the matters of strategic security’. end of quote. putin will come to test us and yes, we will have to resist. that means that we need to keep supporting those fighting for ukraine’s independence, while giving time for the sanctions and isolating measures to work to their full capacity. this will require a sustained effort from all of us. but we need also to think about what comes next. i see two areas for action. first, we need to hardwire our fundamental change of heart into a policy of smart containment. we all want a democratic and secure russia. this house expressed that desire last year when it honoured russian opposition leader alexei navalny with the sakharov prize. but what i mean by hardwiring is that we need now to consolidate what the free world has accomplished in the last weeks and build on it. we need to do this together with our trusted transatlantic partners and others who are like—minded. and there are many like-minded partners. if you look at last week’s un general assembly, the vast majority of the world community, 141 states, voted to condemn russia’s military aggression against ukraine. this vote demonstrates not only a victory for multilateralism but a win for the rule of law. we also need collectively to give our strongest support to the international criminal court once the time comes. last week, icc prosecutor karim khan announced that 39 state parties to the rome statute had referred the situation to his office. this enables him to go ahead with the investigation into any past and present war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide committed on any part of the territory of ukraine by any person. here in the european union, we need to push harder and faster to cut our energy dependence on russian gas and oil. because we have already committed to the green transition, this will be a win-win for our energy independence but also good for the planet. we also need to move quickly to synchronise ukraine’s power grid with that of continental europe and make sure all parts of the eu are synchronised into the continental grid as well. turning to defence. our decisions of last week to use the european peace facility to assist ukraine are but the first step toward strengthening our continental security. we must transform our deterrent posture into a defence plan. i am mindful that not all european members are nato allies. when my father was leading the estonian negotiations to join nato, he was often asked ‘why do you need this? russia does not pose a threat anymore’. well, we knew our neighbour then and we also know our neighbour now. i can only be grateful to the decision to join the defence alliance, but being part of the alliance also comes with obligations. the 2% of gdp defence spending target must become an absolute minimum requirement. estonia decided this already 10 years ago. and allow me here to thank germany for having taken the previously unimaginable decision of raising its defence spending to 2%. all of europe thanks you. let me say here clearly that as we strengthen european defence, we need to work hand-in-hand with nato. time after time we have agreed that a stronger europe means a stronger nato, just as a stronger nato implies a stronger european defence. i look forward to a third joint declaration between the eu and nato on the matter. a stronger european defence means planning our spending wisely and in coordination. we must concentrate on those capabilities that are too expensive for any individual member state to develop on their own, such as long-range air defence, including missile defence. our european capabilities need to be mobile, so we can move them quickly if we need to. and they need to be state-of-the-art. russia may have an enormous military force, but we can compete with quality, breakthrough technology. i urge all member states to submit only pesco projects that bring a technological innovation to the table. and here is a sobering thought: in stepping up european defence, we must find a consensus within the eu that sometimes the best way of achieving peace is the willingness to use military strength. these are my thoughts on the need for a policy of smart containment. let me now turn to the second area we should concentrate on as we think of the post-war order, and this is the future of ukraine. madam president, dear members, ukraine came under attack in 2014 because it wanted to join the european union. it came under armed attack on 24 february because it seeks to take its rightful place among us. it is in our interest that ukraine becomes more stable, more prosperous and solidly founded on the rule of law. i know from estonia’s own experience that this is how it works. but it is not only in our interest to give ukraine a membership perspective; it is also our moral duty to do so. ukraine is not fighting for ukraine, it is fighting for europe. if not now, then when? i thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i should like to thank the prime minister of estonia, ms kallas, for setting so clearly what is at stake. her presentation has been so complete that i am afraid it will be difficult for me not to repeat what you have already said. i will try. i will try not to repeat what the prime minister has said, and you already know. and i want to bring to this house a double message. first, we have done a lot. second, we haven’t done enough. first, we have done a lot, breaking taboos and advancing something that was unthinkable some days or hours before. but certainly, it’s not enough and we should have done it quicker. so let’s be self-praising, but at the same time, let us be self-critical because the challenges that we are facing will require a stronger stance from our side. and we will require to be ready to pay a price, to pay a price because the consequences of the war will be long lasting and the consequences of this war will be shaping european policies for the years and decades to come. we are going to face the problem of gas supply, refugees, changing above all in what do we understand by the security and defence policy of the european union, and the fragmentation of the world economy that will certainly result from the weaponisation of interdependency, which is no longer something to be discussed in academic circles – it is not an abstract concept, it is a reality. weaponisation of interdependency, and certainly we are dependent on russian gas, and the first thing to do is to cancel this dependency. dear members of the european parliament, when the phone rang at 5 o’clock in the morning two weeks ago, and my head of cabinet told me they had started bombing kyiv, i felt the page of history turning, and i felt that we were entering in a new era, in an new moment of the history, in an occasion in which we europeans, we should be able to really face the challenge that russia is putting to us. and in order not to repeat what the prime minister has already said, allow me to make some evaluations about in general terms what’s going on in this new era of our history. the first one is that the fact that we europeans don’t like war doesn’t allow us not to think about war. nous, les européens, on n’aime pas la guerre. on l’a trop faite entre nous et ça nous a laissé un goût amer. on ne veut pas la faire, mais ceci ne veut pas dire que les autres ne veulent pas la faire. il faut être deux pour faire la paix, il en faut seulement un pour faire la guerre. à présent, nous faisons face à une guerre, car poutine a une vision de l’histoire complètement différente de la nôtre. son univers mental est différent du nôtre et c’est pour cela qu’il a fait ce qu’il a fait. c’est aussi pour cela qu’il faut y faire face, tout en sachant qu’il s’est trompé dans un certain nombre de prévisions. putin ha pensado que ucrania era débil y servil y se ha encontrado con un país fuerte y resistente. pensó que europa estaba demasiado dividida y era demasiado dependiente de su gas para mostrarse unida frente a él. pensó que los estados unidos estaban demasiado ocupados con china para volver a fijar sus ojos en lo que pasaba en europa. pensó que la división entre europa y los estados unidos era lo suficientemente grande como para que no nos uniéramos como hemos demostrado hacerlo. y pensó que su ejército era capaz de aplastar ucrania en pocos días, ocupar kiev y colocar allí un régimen fantoche. y todo eso no ha sido como él pensaba. esta guerra va a durar y saldremos de ella en función de una serie de circunstancias que después les intentaré explicar. la segunda consideración que hemos de hacer es que la interdependencia económica y una globalización no cambian la brutalidad de las relaciones de fuerza. que el cambio político a través de las relaciones comerciales es una buena manera de construir un mundo pacífico, pero no es suficiente. y, desde luego, no lo es frente a aquellos que no comparten nuestros valores de la democracia liberal. creo que fue lenin quien dijo aquello de que los capitalistas estarían dispuestos a vender hasta la cuerda con la que los ahorcaremos si de ello sacan algún beneficio. y putin pensó que nuestra adicción al gas ruso era lo suficientemente fuerte como para hacernos retraer de la guerra en ucrania. pensó que nuestros lazos energéticos con rusia nos inmovilizarían y, ciertamente, nuestros lazos energéticos con rusia nos condicionan. porque cada año pagamos por el petróleo, el carbón y el gas rusos el equivalente de las reservas de cambio que hemos bloqueado en los bancos occidentales, donde el banco central ruso las tiene depositadas. hemos bloqueado el stock, pero no hemos parado el flujo. y ya sabemos que los stocks son consecuencia de la acumulación de flujos, como ha hecho putin desde que invadió crimea, cuando puso a salvo sus reservas de cambio sacándolas de la denominación en dólares y en euros para ponerlas en la moneda china, en oro o en divisas que estuvieran fuera de nuestro alcance. por lo tanto, la primera cosa que tenemos que hacer es cortar el cordón umbilical que une nuestra economía con la rusa y cortar el flujo que le permite acumular reservas con las cuales financiar la guerra. eso lo podemos hacer al nivel de la macropolítica, como ayer hizo la comisión, con una nueva directiva que pretende recortar, de aquí a fin de año, en dos terceras partes nuestra dependencia del gas ruso. objetivo difícil pero realizable si realmente nos aplicamos a ello. y eso requiere medidas macroeconómicas, medidas técnicas, y también requiere que los ciudadanos europeos bajen la calefacción de sus casas. también requiere que todo el mundo haga un esfuerzo individual en recortar el consumo de gas, igual que recortamos el consumo de agua cuando hay sequía e igual que nos ponemos una mascarilla para combatir el virus. lo que hemos hecho contra la covid-19 lo hemos de hacer a favor de ucrania. tiene que ser una movilización de los espíritus, de las actividades, de las actitudes individuales, en un compromiso colectivo para hacer frente a una tarea que es, sin duda, histórica y que hemos empezado demasiado tarde, pero más vale tarde que nunca. porque cuando rusia invadió crimea dijimos que teníamos que reducir nuestra dependencia del gas ruso. desde entonces hasta ahora la hemos aumentado. en vez de reducirla, la hemos aumentado. ya es hora de que sistemáticamente, permanentemente, constantemente, con el valor casi de una cruzada política, los europeos reduzcan su dependencia del gas ruso. porque la defensa de los valores liberales no se hará si no existe un compromiso político de los ciudadanos dispuestos a pagar un precio por ello. será una pura quimera, serán declaraciones teóricas y retóricas si no estamos dispuestos a actuar más unidos, más coordinados, y a pagar el precio que tiene, inevitablemente, cualquier transformación estructural como aquella que representa cambiar el mix energético del conjunto de un continente. también tenemos que luchar contra la narrativa. ayer estuve hablando a los ciudadanos de la india, de oriente medio, de los emiratos árabes unidos, para contrarrestar el discurso de rusia, que dice que hemos sido nosotros, los occidentales ―en particular los ucranianos―, los que hemos iniciado la guerra, que somos nosotros los que lanzamos amenazas nucleares, que la culpa es nuestra por intentar empezar lo que ya llaman ―la llaman así― «la tercera guerra mundial». hay que combatir esta narrativa, primero cortando las fuentes de desinformación, como hemos hecho, y después desarrollando la nuestra. porque no basta con silenciar la suya. hay que desarrollar la nuestra. les invito a todos ustedes, parlamentarios, a que desarrollan una gran labor de diplomacia parlamentaria, a hacerlo ahora más que nunca, llevando la voz de europa para explicar qué es lo que realmente pasa. porque no todo el mundo tiene la misma clara conciencia que nosotros sobre lo que está pasando en ucrania. y porque los mensajes falaces, trucados de mentiras pueden perfectamente contaminar las mentes de aquellos que no tienen más información que la que reciben. es nuestra obligación dar esa información permanentemente, porque tenemos una batalla acerca de la interpretación histórica de estos acontecimientos. hay que separar también al régimen de putin del pueblo ruso. hemos llamado a esta guerra «la guerra de putin». y es cierto, es su guerra, porque es él quien ha decidido iniciarla y solo él puede pararla. pero tenemos que separar claramente lo que son los designios de una determinada persona, apoyada por un régimen, apoyada por un conjunto de oligarcas, basados en la corrupción y en la sustracción de las riquezas de un gran país, de lo que es el pueblo ruso, que ha tenido también el valor de salir a la calle a protestar contra la guerra. hay varios miles de ciudadanos rusos que están en la cárcel por ello y que merecen nuestra solidaridad y apoyo tanto como los habitantes de ucrania. esta confrontación va a durar. va a ser como la covid, no va a desaparecer un buen día. va a permanecer y dejar su marca en la historia. y su evolución va a depender de varios factores, algunos de los cuales no controlamos. el primero es el equilibrio del poder militar en el terreno. una guerra la ganan o la pierden los que combaten en ella y por eso es importante que sigamos apoyando con medios militares el esfuerzo del ejército del pueblo de ucrania. el segundo serán las consecuencias de las sanciones que hemos decidido aplicar contra rusia en la dimensión financiera y económica. la economía rusa está poco integrada en la economía mundial. rusia es hoy básicamente una gasolinera y un cuartel. es un sitio donde venden hidrocarburos y con ello alimentan a unas fuerzas armadas dispuestas a intervenir donde haga falta, desde el sahel al cáucaso, pasando por siria, y ahora en ucrania. dependerá del efecto de nuestras sanciones. las noticias empiezan ya a señalar que rusia corre el riesgo de default en algunas de sus deudas externas. en todo caso, la caída del rublo ha sido impresionante, lo cual demuestra la vulnerabilidad de su economía y eso tendrá impactos, desgraciadamente, también en la población. sus efectos debilitarán, pero, desgraciadamente, no podemos esperar que se produzcan en los próximos días. su impacto será duradero, pero se manifestará progresivamente a lo largo del tiempo. por eso hemos de seguir aumentando la presión a través de los medios de los que disponemos. y quiero anunciar a esta cámara que a estas horas se ha hecho llegar a los estados miembros un nuevo paquete de sanciones que incluye a más de cien responsables de distintos niveles del gobierno y de la nomenklatura rusa, y más sanciones económicas, que espero que sean aprobadas antes de que acabe esta sesión. también va a depender de la movilización internacional contra la guerra. va a depender de lo que haga el resto del mundo. sí, podemos estar satisfechos del extraordinario éxito diplomático que representa que 141 países hayan condenado a rusia y solamente 4 ―¡y qué 4!― hayan sido los que la apoyan. y ¡qué 4!: corea, bielorrusia, eritrea... valiente compañía. esta es su única compañía. pero también hay muchos países que se han abstenido. y hemos de interpretar esta abstención, especialmente en áfrica. hemos de entender de qué forma entiende el mundo lo que está ocurriendo. y hemos de reforzar nuestros lazos con aquellos países que, por algunas razones relacionadas con el temor a rusia y otras relacionadas con el ansia de demostrar una independencia de pensamiento y de acción, no se han unido a la condena, sino que se han abstenido o no han participado en la votación. américa, la del norte y la del sur, ha estado muy unida en la condena a rusia. no lo ha estado tanto áfrica. desde el punto de vista geopolítico tenemos que concentrar nuestra atención en una relación más profunda con los países africanos para compartir las mismas actitudes cuando el mundo entra en una fase crítica como esta. putin ha intentado conquistar rápidamente las ciudades. y no lo ha conseguido. pretendía tomar kiev en una semana y kiev resiste. todas las ciudades ucranianas resisten. y, ante eso, hace lo que el ejército ruso sabe hacer, que es bombardear. lo hizo en alepo. lo ha hecho en toda siria, reducida a escombros, lo hizo en chechenia y lo va a hacer en ucrania. sin ninguna clase de consideración por las víctimas civiles que pueda producir, abriendo corredores humanitarios con la condición de que conduzcan hacia rusia y bombardeándolos en el momento en que la gente empieza a utilizarlos. nuestra condena moral no puede ser mayor. pero esto no es un problema de moral. es un problema de fuerza. es un problema de trabajo diplomático. porque a pesar de toda la condena que hagamos, tenemos que seguir trabajando para conseguir un alto el fuego y que se abran negociaciones directas e incondicionales entre ucrania y rusia bajo los auspicios de las naciones unidas. mientras tanto, nosotros tenemos que repensar lo que queremos ser. tenemos que repensar cuándo y cómo vamos a activar aquellos artículos del tratado —que están en el tratado— que prometen que europa construirá una defensa común —no alternativa a la otan, sino complementaria—, que dedicaremos más fuerza, más capacidad, más voluntad política, más compromiso a tener capacidades que aumenten nuestra seguridad y nuestra defensa. y debo expresar mi satisfacción por el hecho de que alemania haya dado un primer paso al frente en esta dirección. a nadie le gusta decir a sus ciudadanos que tiene que aumentar su esfuerzo militar. todos preferimos la mantequilla a los cañones, como se decía durante las guerras mundiales. pero, cuando en 1975 se firmaron los acuerdos de helsinki, los países que hoy forman la unión europea gastaban en defensa aproximadamente el 4 % de su pib. y ahora están gastando aproximadamente el 1,5 % de su pib. una reducción del 4 al 1,5 % en cincuenta años de paz pudo estar justificada cuando los dividendos de la paz se empleaban en aumentar la seguridad social, el estado del bienestar. pero, ahora, con los desafíos que tenemos enfrente, sería realmente negar la realidad si no hiciésemos el esfuerzo pedagógico necesario para explicar a nuestros ciudadanos que nuestro sistema de vida tiene un precio; que hemos organizado europa como un jardín a la francesa, ordenado, regulado, regido por leyes y normas, pero que, fuera, la jungla crece. y si no queremos que la jungla invada nuestro jardín, tenemos que invertir no solo en cuidarlo, sino también en defenderlo. porque desde gibraltar hasta el cáucaso nuestro entorno está rodeado por un círculo de fuego alimentado, entre otros, por rusia, en el cáucaso, en siria y ahora en el sahel. los europeos necesitan que el ruido de las bombas a las cinco de la madrugada de hace quince días, al caer sobre kiev, les despierte de sus sueños de bienestar y les permita enfrentar los desafíos que no hemos buscado, pero que el mundo proyecta sobre nosotros. y ucrania es el primero. corten el gas en sus casas. disminuyan la dependencia de quien ataca a ucrania y comprometámonos más en una defensa colectiva, que es una obligación de los tratados a la que hemos prestado demasiada poca atención hasta ahora.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam prime minister, mr high representative, for the last 30 years and the yugoslav wars, there have been many occasions to hear that europe's hour has finally come. yet, in the field of defence, progress has never been as great as the effects of the announcement. today, russia's aggression against ukraine is ushering in a new era and europe must quickly learn the consequences. to finally achieve the essential european strategic awakening, we already have at our disposal many instruments that are only waiting to be used. what has been lacking in recent years is not tools but above all a strong, unanimous and simultaneous political will on the part of our member states. we have whole sections of the lisbon treaty on security and defence which have not been explored - article 42 (7) and article 44. we have financial instruments that we are now discovering are relevant, but they have not received the necessary budgetary resources. we even have the famous intervention force, since the tactical groups, the famous battle groups, have already existed for more than 20 years. on the other hand, we also know what we lack: all our technological and capacity shortcomings are identified and counted every year in the european reports. we must act now. we have a strong european defence industry, capable of meeting these challenges. the commission should immediately stop its attempts to subject these largely dual industries to taxonomic, social or environmental rules which will dry up investment in a strategic sector. more than the important announcements that will be made in the coming days by european leaders, european credibility will be at stake for the long term. we need concrete and irreversible implementation, because nothing would be worse than to find ourselves here in a few months' time, in the wake of a lull we all hope for, only to find that the effort has been slackened.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr kallas, for his report and for the work he has done. the criminal attack by putin has put us in front of the mirror of our own strengths and weaknesses as a union. our traditionally wavering stance towards the kremlin contrasted with the tough post-war measures, in particular the agreement on economic sanctions and the change in asylum policy that took us away from the shameful closure of borders to syrians in 2015. in just a few days, we've taken a giant step in our construction as a global player. once again, the european union is being forged by crisis. and it is also time to do some self-criticism to learn from our mistakes: we must never again sacrifice human rights for gas. the creation of strategic gas reserves, joint gas purchasing and the interconnection of the iberian peninsula as a storage and distribution centre are an urgent strategic imperative. the imposition of a tax on electricity companies that do not invest in renewable energy is also a pressing need, because every euro we invest in green energy will reduce our strategic vulnerability. we also need a roadmap to rectify the mistakes made in the 2015 refugee crisis. the activation of the temporary protection directive obliges member states to provide food, education, health and work. we must now agree on a system of solidarity distribution and establish a reception structure. the protection of war victims is an opportunity to think about a new migration policy based, this time, on responsibility and solidarity. and we must also prepare to support the ukrainian people. we never wanted a war; putin is solely responsible. today, the weapons for the survival of a free ukraine are those which the second spanish republic did not have eighty years ago because of the inaction of the european democracies. in this tragic hour, the ukrainian army needs military means to defend men, women and vulnerable people. their security is also our security, because no one will be safe in the rest of europe if we allow putin to impose himself. the impunity for the killing of civilians violates the very laws of war enshrined in the geneva conventions, and it is urgent that the united nations be able to organize humanitarian corridors. equally, the international criminal court must move forward with the investigation of putin as a war criminal. and, in its role as mediator, china must abandon its ambiguity and offer tangible steps to guarantee peace. the solution to putin's cowardly aggression must not be the surrender of ukraine or the amputation of its territory. let us speak loud and clear to putin: every democratic european state has the right to be part of the european union, including ukraine. it is also important today that this parliament expresses its full support for the baltic states and all the countries bordering ukraine and russia. a few days ago i was able to see the strength of solidarity on the ukrainian-hungarian border. the work of the red cross and the organizations and volunteers who are attending to the needs of the refugees is admirable. let us use the support of citizens to strengthen the european identity, to reaffirm our values, to move forward in a stronger europe. in the fight against tyrants like putin, it is time to stop thinking about what the european union can do for us and think about what we can do for the union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the war putin is waging is targeted against ukraine, shelling civilian areas and attacking refugees, but his war is also meant against europe as a whole. putin intends to destroy the post—cold war european security architecture. putin is waging a war against democracy, rule of law and freedoms, which are universal values. as the european union, as the union built for peace, we must act for the european security. at european level, we need to make sure that the member states’ defence is functioning, that investments are compatible with one another, that pooling and sharing finally gets implemented, and that we have common standards so equipment cannot be used by one state alone. but colleagues, if we are exclusively thinking about the army when saying defence and security, then we don’t see the whole picture. security means much more. it means energy security and energy independence. we need to get rid of the dependence on russia’s fossil fuels and raw materials – be it gas, oil, coal or uranium. we have plenty of sun and wind to use on our own. we have the technology at hand. we need to reduce our consumption and speed up fit for 55, investing massively in renewables, in energy efficiency and in energy saving. security also means civil protection. in the last years and decades, much of the protective infrastructure in europe has been neglected. floods and wildfires in recent years have already shown us the lack of preparedness. the eu and its member states need to urgently work on how to effectively protect citizens. security also means making sure that europe’s critical infrastructure is well—functioning, well—stocked and in public hands. the same goes for cybersecurity and our digital infrastructure and data. we need to talk about resilient societies, about communities that help each other and are educated to withstand misinformation campaigns and to spot fake news. security for europe means solidarity among member states, about sharing the efforts, for example, for welcoming the many people fleeing ukraine. they need to be housed, they need medical care, the children need to go to school, and that will need a shared effort by all member states and not just a few. we have seen it in the last two weeks. when we act together, we are strong. this is the lesson that we have to carry forward.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, i will start in english because it’s for a bigger audience. i’m really surprised, in a positive way, that, if i listen, our good colleagues from the socialist group and from the renew group are calling for more military help to ukraine. that’s exactly what we have to do. i’ve heard some arguments that, if we help ukraine in a military way, then the war would be bigger, there would be more chaos, it would be a disaster in the world, and it would be a third world war. but no. the sooner we end the war in ukraine, the sooner the russians will be back in their own territory, and the sooner those refugees – who are really refugees today, women and children are escaping from a war zone to neighbouring countries – can go back to their homes. i just read yesterday that our good colleagues from poland are ready to help ukraine with fighter jets. that’s what we have to do. and unfortunately, i read that our good colleagues from the us are scared now. they are not ready to really move those fighter jets through nato bases to ukraine. but every day the russians are just killing ordinary people. they are killing children. they are attacking hospitals. they are attacking ordinary houses. and every day that we wait to help, the more disasters there will be. and if the russians succeed in ukraine, then there is the question, who’s next? in the last three months, we have seen their ambitions. we have seen what they have said and their dream is to go back to the soviet union times. unfortunately i, and also ms kallas, are from a country that is very close to russia, and it’s very easy to close the baltic states from the western world. that’s why we have to stop the war as soon as possible, and harmfully, against russians. i would also like to mention that we have to understand that there has been huge support from the russian population for putin. look at 2014, after the crimean annexation. there was huge support to go to crimea and to occupy it. so that’s why i wouldn’t say that there are totally different parts of russia, that there is putin and the kremlin, and there are ordinary people. a large part of russians are unfortunately still supporting this aggressor. lõpetuseks eesti keeles proua kallasele, kuna see on nö siseriiklikult ka oluline ja kuna mul ei ole teiega võimalik väga tihti kohtuda. nato on meile oluline liitlane, keegi ei kahtle selles. aga selleks, et liitlased saaksid meid kaitsta, on meil vaja ka ise panustada, maksimaalselt. eestis on poliitiline konsensus kõikide parteide poolt, et me peame investeerima võimalikult kiiresti ja võimalikult palju eesti riigikaitsesse. võtma riigikaitselaenu ajal, kui meil on kõige madalam välisvõlatase euroopa riikidest, ajal, kui inflatsioon on lendamas taevasse, ja ajal, kus meil käib sõda meie naabri juures. ainult üks partei on sellele vastu olnud – kahjuks reformierakond ja peaministri erakond. põhjendusega, et muidu eelarve pole tasakaalus. täna pole aeg rääkida eelarve tasakaalust – täna on vaja rääkida sellest, et me suudame investeerida meie kaitsevõimesse, kus kõik parteid, isegi eesti sotsialistid, on sellega täiesti nõus. seega, proua kallas, kaitseme ukrainat, kaitseme euroopat, aga kaitseme ka eestit! suur aitäh!
madam president, what transpired on 24 february was shocking, but not surprising. in fact, canaries in the coalmine had been singing about these threats all along. but it was a watershed moment and we have changed in those two weeks. now we have to make those changes sustainable. we have to do six things. first of all, of course, we have to deny putin a victory in ukraine and show to the world that, ultimately, good triumphs over evil. secondly, we have to strategically weaken the russian dictatorship. any threat consists of two vectors: the intent to do harm and the ability to do so. we cannot expect to change putin’s evil intent so we simply have to remove his ability. thirdly, we have to boost our defences, including defence spending. fourth, we have to boost our resilience, including the resilience of liberal democracy itself. fifth, we have to reduce our dependence on authoritarian countries like russia in strategic areas. and, finally, we have to build alliances. the maxim ‘together with allies whenever we can, alone only if we really must’ is still very much valid, especially in existential crises like this one.
madam president, aggression of russia against ukraine demonstrates once again how important is the eu’s engagement with the eastern partnership countries. while the eu was largely absent during the second nagorno—karabakh war, we can still make a difference if we take a more active role today. war is not the solution, and the conflict in nagorno-karabakh cannot be solved by military force. this is one of the lessons learned from the first war. falsification of history, as well as war against cultural heritage, cannot be justified. actions perpetrated by armenia in the past, and damage to azerbaijani heritage over the past decades does not justify attacks on cultural heritage in the present. sustainable peace has to be negotiated. reconciliation and rehabilitation should stem from mutual respect, including respect for minority rights and protection of historical, religious and cultural heritage. while effort is needed from both sides to resolve this conflict, we condemn the continued policy of azerbaijan to erase and deny armenian cultural heritage in and around nagorno-karabakh. i would like to recall the provisional measures introduced by the international court of justice last year in the case of armenia v. azerbaijan. azerbaijan must take all necessary measures to prevent and punish acts of vandalism and desecration affecting armenian cultural heritage, and i urge azerbaijan to remove all obstacles and facilitate the unesco independent mission of experts in order to assess the situation regarding cultural properties in and around nagorno-karabakh.
madam president, we’ve seen until now a very coordinated and united european response, and that has been very good and very important. however, the hard work still needs to be done, and one part of the hard work is our energy future. we have made a lot of mistakes in our past, but what are we going to do in the future? i thank the commission for coming up with proposals today for more jointly working on energy. however, this also needs to be done in the future, and this question is really for the council. will you now finally move on an energy union where we take decisions together, because russia is profiting every day from 27 member states who are competing with each other instead of working together on our energy future? that’s one of the answers that we need to give, not only in the short term, but also in the long term. to the commission, i really want bolder proposals on energy efficiency. you talk about it, ursula von der leyen talked about it, it’s very good language, but we haven’t seen concrete proposals. we have not seen new targets on the table that will accelerate energy efficiency, because that’s the key – energy we do not use is energy we do not have to import.
madam president, i am very sorry that the president of the commission had to leave. i really wanted to remind her of some small things. first of all, after 2014, when the russian invasion against ukraine started, for the next five years european countries increased, every year, the import of oil and gas from russia. so that means for the last six, seven years, we have paid more and more money to russia, and that’s the money they can use in the army against ukraine. so those european countries are also responsible for the war against ukraine. second thing, if you are talking about our military capacity, what did ms von der leyen do when she was six and half years minister of defence in germany. its military capacity was destroyed. two weeks ago, germany promised to give at least military aid to ukraine, but what came out? it doesn’t have it – it doesn’t have anything to give! that’s also the fault of mrs von der leyen, unfortunately. but okay, that’s history. how can we go forward? tomorrow, and in two days, there is a council meeting – just now in the morning i checked. twelve countries of the 27 have supplied military aid to ukraine. twelve of the 27. all the others have not done this. it’s time to give more and more military aid to ukraine, because the peace agreement can’t be that the russian occupants will stay in ukraine, in mariupol or eastern ukraine. they have to get out of ukraine. and for this work, we have to help in any way we can.
high representative, thank you very much. i think that the strategic compass is a very good and actionable document. but, as so often happens, we have been overtaken by events. and, no doubt, we have to adapt the implementation to the significantly changed security situation following the russian invasion of ukraine. i hope that most of the priorities in the document will remain valid and relevant. one that definitely will is eu-nato cooperation, nato being the primary provider of military security to all of its european member countries and also an organisation whose primary task is to defend the member countries against foreign aggression. my question is: what response, if any, have you received from nato hq and from the capitals of the non-eu member countries of nato to our strategic compass? and, conversely, what are your expectations with regard to the nato’s forthcoming new strategic concept?
yes. thank you. a short follow up. much of the discussion this century about european security and defence has taken place in a situation where the us focus on european security has been diminishing and the physical footprint of the americans on european soil has been shrinking. now, at least for the short term, we have seen this process reversed, to the extent even that, for the first time in many, many years, americans are deploying more than 100 000 troops to europe. do you think that we should try to make this reversal permanent? and if so, what can we do to do so?
mr president, the crises we are experiencing show that the decisive force is responsible, committed citizens who are committed to a common cause. voluntary action and solidarity and participation in political activities for the benefit of the whole community is not taken for granted, and without education, without education, without support, it simply cannot be done. this is also why member states include citizenship education in their education programmes and why the european union supports it through erasmus+ and the european solidarity corps. it is natural that there are national approaches to civic education. but we want to use the european education area and offer support to the member states in the form of a common competence framework including its european dimension. citizens of all ages should be informed about european integration, its values and institutions. this framework cannot be made mandatory, but if it is of a high quality, i have no doubt that teachers will be happy to use it for their pupils and it will become a successful common educational tool in all member states. this is not a new demand from the commission or the member states and it is very much in line with the recommendations made by citizens at the conference on the future of europe. i would ask the commission to act more quickly. i would just like to point out that the participation of young people aged 15 to 24 in the debate on the future of europe on the electronic platform is low at 9%. and i don't think that's a very good sign. we all feel that this is connected to the future, so i thank domenech as the author of this report, all the shadow reporters and especially the teachers, all the professional workplaces that support civic education.
mr president, my colleague domènec ruiz devesa's report, which i warmly welcome, lists a series of events and social changes that have taken place in recent years, such as brexit, the attacks, the damage caused by misinformation and interference, and the rise of euroscepticism, all of which demonstrate an urgent need for education in european citizenship and the values of the european union. many statements have been made in this regard. however, the report notes with regret that to date too little has been done to achieve this objective. since the adoption of this report by the committee, war has broken out on europe's doorstep, and while it has united the union in the face of the emergency, it only makes more necessary the need for long-term education in citizenship and in the values of the union, which are the only antidote to illiberal propaganda and nationalism. let us remember that today's young people in the union, as in ukraine and russia, are the drivers of change and peace tomorrow. i therefore support the objective of this report and support the implementation of the recommendations made, the main one being the maximum exploitation of the potential of the european programmes devoted to this, such as the 'citizens, equality, rights and values' programme, but also actions for a renewed european civic education.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, education is a fundamental right of every human being and everyone has the right to quality education and training to be relevant and complete in society. the more educated and informed citizens are, the more they will be involved in solving the problems facing the european union. so it's of key importance to us to strengthen civic education. educated citizens of the european union will be much more aware of the history of the european continent, the values and diversity of our union, and will be much more engaged in the political processes. the european commission should encourage member states to update their education systems, the content of their curricula, so that young people can fully appreciate the importance of the european union, the possibilities and benefits of a united europe. i express my very strong support for the european parliament's school ambassadors programme. this programme is extremely useful and helps young people to get more information about the institutions of the european union, about european values, about european solidarity. the benefits of this programme will be much greater if its scope is extended to smaller settlements in rural areas. alongside the extension of civic education in schools, it is imperative to promote civic education for people of all ages, and ngos, professionals and experts working in the field of civic education can be useful here.
mr president, the situation we have been witnessing for more than a month in ukraine reminds us of the importance of education in transmitting the values of democracy, solidarity and diversity. the european values. citizenship education is the main tool we have to build the project of the european future. moreover, at a time when the fight against climate change is confronting us with a challenge that threatens our lives, education for environmental sustainability must play a key role. our young people must be involved in this fight with us. the implementation of the european education area is an indispensable tool for achieving these objectives, by giving the european union greater powers in education. we must do so without delay by the scheduled date of 2025. if we want to preserve our values and ensure a more sustainable, tolerant and inclusive european society in the future, we must ensure proper citizenship education.
mr president, i would like to say first of all that european citizenship, which we have had for 30 years, really calls for the preservation of its values. and also that the challenges we face are very serious. it's the climate challenge, the challenge of the new digital age, we know the fake news we face in all of these challenges, even in vaccination, which until recently was considered an unquestioned agenda. we can counter all this fake news with competence, knowledge and education for citizenship, and that's the theme of this report, which i strongly support. this unprecedented pressure from the media and social networks calls for a competent citizen, an educated citizen, and i want such a citizen to be at the centre of our interest, that is, at the centre of the european union's interest.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank you for this exchange and i took note of many of your ideas. i agree that we need to intensify our cooperation with member states in the field of civic education. we will do this through the european education area cooperation framework, which offers various opportunities to cooperate in this field. this way, the commission will ensure that active citizenship and citizenship education stay on our collective agenda while respecting the matter of member state competence. at the same time, i have doubts about the necessity of a new european agency in this field. i agree that we need to double our efforts in support of citizenship education. we must do more, but this remains a competence of the member states. and we already have the best, most tried and tested tool to support the member states in working together. so, i believe that what we need is to invest in bringing in our stakeholders, along with all those europeans invested in a more democratic, more engaged europe, and help them be the leverage that helps member states come together and work together, learning from each other. this means more stakeholder intervention and working groups and peer learning activities, learning from erasmus+ projects and from each winner’s experiences. a europe that is close to its people builds on the civic competences of its citizens. and we have millions of citizens who believe in these values and are ready to work to foster them. this is especially true this year – the european year of youth. empowering people of all ages to assume civic responsibility is the best and most sustainable investment to strengthen our democracies.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. in his report on citizenship education, mep ruiz devesa calls on the commission to develop a common european curriculum to strengthen european identity and knowledge of the eu. at the same time, this unified curriculum emphasizes the inclusion of the lmbtiq community and migrants, and sensitization to gender perspectives, which would mean that liberal propaganda would be included in the curriculum. respecting the competences of the member states and the treaty on fundamental rights, it is important that it is not the ep or the ec that determines what the criterion of europeanism is and what we teach within the framework of the subject of citizenship knowledge, namely national competence. we reject any kind of ideological propaganda teaching to our children in school! leave our children alone and do not interfere in the educational processes of hungary and other eu member states. in hungarian education, inclusion, discrimination means freedom. equal opportunities concerns all persons with disabilities and therefore does not support the segmentation of any target group along ideological lines. the results of the child protection referendum held on april 3 clearly prove that hungarian citizens are proud of their national identity, their christian conservative values and do not support the introduction of liberal ideological propaganda into hungarian schools. the european parliament and the european commission should respect the opinions of hungarian citizens and the competences of the member states.
the next item is the oral explanation of votes.
mr. chairman, i was just hesitant about the point. i supported the proposal in mr enger's report on this point because i was convinced that there was no other way to proceed. i've been thinking, or it's clear, that this permit system needs some revision. and i know that the european commission will be presenting them very soon. however, the aim of this commission proposal, which was considered by the european parliament, was to maintain the temporary adjustment of the reserves already adopted by the previous directive. if this extension had not been achieved by progress or agreement, then the whole system would have collapsed. that's why i voted for this motion. on the other hand, i repeat what i said at the beginning of my speech, that i believe that the permit system needs to be changed. we are facing a very volatile pattern of price developments and also a war which will raise prices very sharply, so we must also respond at european level.
mr president, i too welcome this report on the impact of brexit for our coastal and fishing communities. it’s clear that ireland’s fishing sector has been walloped by brexit as the trade deal amounts to a 15% overall cut to our fishing quota. and our coastal and fishing communities don’t need lip service, they need action. they need our government to sit down with our eu counterparts and the european commission to make the case for levelling up the irish fishing industry. along with this, we need the dublin government to fight for irish fishermen to have a quota for species relatively new to our waters, like bluefin tuna. representing the island nation of ireland, i get angry when i see coastal and fishing communities being neglected by successive governments despite being an island with huge potential. what we need is a government that is prepared to stand up for our fishermen.
mr president, we discussed this report at our meeting yesterday. it is intended to ensure respect for the rights of the child and its full weight in civil proceedings in particular, but also in other types of proceedings. i would like to draw attention to one point in particular which has made me decide to support this report unequivocally. the report also addresses issues such as cross-border family disputes concerning children, where it is important to respect the judgments of the court of justice, but also in the field of adoption and foster care and decisions on the recognition of parentage for same-sex couples. i think that's a very positive approach, because it's in the best interest of the child that the parental rights be respected. this report does not shy away from this subject, and i appreciate it for that.
i also supported this report, mr president, because it highlights the problems that exist in the creation of the energy union and the possibility of transferring energy from one place to another in the european union. this is about our safety, this is about our self-sufficiency. we have seen and felt national nationalism in the energy sector. we haven't seen any energy buying here. we have not seen a common approach by european countries. and i think that the conflict in ukraine has to change. and they are. the states that were first in line for oil and gas pipelines and other energy networks from russia are now actually the last and feel very insecure and their citizens feel very uncertain about the future. we have to defend them. we must show our readiness and plan. and this report by mr krasnodębski is clearly aimed at that.
the president, while welcoming the progress made in this report, did not support the laws in question. the challenges are huge, especially because of covid-19. the report is aimed at improving the quality of life, rather than at reducing the cost of living. the budget is to be examined and the citizens' priorities will be taken into account in this report. also, there is a lot of good news in the military affairs report. i'm gonna throw you out of here and make you proud.
the meeting is closed and will resume tomorrow, wednesday 6 april, at 9.00 a.m., with priority debates on the council and commission statements the conclusions of the european council of 24 and 25 march 2022, including on the latest developments in the war against ukraine and on eu sanctions against russia and their implementation. the rules of procedure have been published and are available on the european parliament's website.
i have an announcement from my side, before we start the debate, in relation to the decision by the econ and libe committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) announced at the opening of the part—session last monday. the president has received no request for a vote in parliament by members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold, so the committees may therefore start negotiations.
the next item is the debate on the european council, council and commission statements on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 24—25 march 2022: including the latest developments of the war against ukraine and the eu sanctions against russia and their implementation (2022/2560(rsp)). just by way of a reminder, we are testing some of the recommendations of the focus group on plenary reform. therefore, free seating is applied for all the plenary chamber with the exception of the first two rows that are allocated to political group leaders, and you will be able to request catch—the—eye and blue—cards via your voting machine after having inserted your voting card. therefore, i invite you always to bring your voting card into the chamber. in fact, if you would like to register for catch—the—eye for this debate, i invite you to start doing that from now. also following the recommendation of the focus group, the speaking time allocated for all interventions will now be a minimum of two minutes and this applies to the catch—the—eye as well. if you are going to use a blue—card, you can do that for a short intervention and that will allow for a follow—up question. all the speeches will take place from the central lectern except for catch—the—eye, blue—cards and points of order.
president of the european council. – madam president, dear members of the european parliament, just two weeks ago, in this parliament, we expressed our shock and horror at the martyrdom of mariupol, crimes against a city, crimes against its people. today we express our outrage at crimes against humanity, against innocent civilians in bucha and in many other cities. this is yet more proof that russian brutality against the people of ukraine has no limits, yet more proof of war crimes – summary executions, bodies littered in the streets, mass graves. this is not a special operation, these are war crimes, and we, the eu, will not turn our backs. we will look reality straight in the eye. there must be and there will be severe consequences for all those responsible, as we are already supporting all efforts to collect the evidence. we will do everything, everything we can to bring the perpetrators to justice. international justice will be served. dear colleagues, i have one message for the russian soldiers on the battlefield: if you want no part in killing your ukrainian brothers and sisters, if you don’t want to be a criminal, drop your arms, stop fighting, leave the battlefield. i know, dear members of parliament, that some of you have suggested granting asylum for russian soldiers who disobey russian orders. in my opinion, this is a valuable idea that should be pursued. dear colleagues, right now we must do everything to make these atrocities stop. we are toughening our sanctions to keep and to exercise maximum pressure on the kremlin. during our last european council meeting, we tasked the high representative and the commission to propose additional sanctions to the council. we must close the loopholes. we must target any attempt to circumvent sanctions. and we are ready to move quickly with further coordinated, robust sanctions. the new package includes a ban on coal import and, ladies and gentlemen, i think that measures on oil and even gas will also be needed sooner or later. we will stop russian vessels from entering eu ports and impose a ban on russian and belarusian road transport operators. we will impose a full transaction ban on more russian banks, to further weaken russia’s financial system, and we will coordinate with our friends from the g7 organisation. president biden and president zelenskyy joined our last european council meeting. president biden’s presence and president zelenskyy’s address sent a clear message that our transatlantic partnership and our support for ukraine is rock solid. we are more united than ever – united in sanctioning russia, united in putting pressure on the kremlin, united in supporting ukraine as much as we can. we know we are in this for the long haul. with the united states, canada, japan, australia, the republic of korea, the uk and many countries and friends around the world, we are ready to bear the costs of sanctions and, most importantly, our eu unity, our transatlantic unity, our determination – these are our main assets to end the war, to stop these atrocities and to help rebuild ukraine. we will continue to assist ukraine with political, financial, humanitarian and material support. we have agreed to develop a ukraine solidarity trust fund. in the short term, it will help support the state of ukraine. in the long term, it would provide massive investments to rebuild the economy and infrastructure. ladies and gentlemen, this war is a human tragedy. over 10 million people have fled the war in ukraine. more than 6 million are internally displaced, while over 4 million have fled to the eu, mostly women and children. we are welcoming them with dignity and with solidarity because the ukrainian people deserve our support. we will continue to offer them any assistance they need, such as housing, education, health care. and we will pay special attention to the most vulnerable – women, children – who could fall prey to traffickers. the stand up for ukraine pledging event in warsaw on saturday will help raise money and other support for refugees and internally displaced people. i would like to express my gratitude to all, and especially to the countries bordering ukraine for their solidarity – poland, slovakia, hungary, romania, moldova. ladies and gentlemen, rarely has the contrast between right and wrong been so stark. madame la présidente, cette guerre en ukraine est un moment de vérité et un moment d’urgence pour l’union européenne. cette guerre en ukraine nous ouvre les yeux, si cela était nécessaire, sur l’urgence de renforcer la souveraineté européenne et de bâtir une union européenne stratégique. le dernier conseil européen, dans la foulée de la réunion de versailles, a été l’occasion de franchir une étape supplémentaire sur la voie de l’europe de la défense, pour plus d’indépendance sur le terrain énergétique et sur le terrain de la sécurité alimentaire. d’abord, sur la question de l’énergie, soyons clairs, soyons précis: nous devons nous libérer de nos dépendances et, le plus rapidement possible, de notre dépendance aux énergies fossiles russes. lors des réunions du conseil européen de ces derniers mois, les chefs d’état ou de gouvernement ont abordé la question de l’énergie à cinq reprises, sollicitant auprès de la commission des notes, des propositions, des rapports qui fassent progresser de manière opérationnelle ce qui pour nous est une priorité. les orientations validées lors du dernier conseil européen sont extrêmement fortes; elles traduisent aussi l’unité de l’union européenne. il s’agit de nous engager immédiatement, sans attendre, pour diversifier nos sources d’approvisionnement, non seulement depuis les états-unis – des annonces ont été faites à ce titre – et le canada, mais avec d’autres pays tels que l’azerbaïdjan, l’algérie, l’égypte ou les pays du golfe. nous devons nous engager à accélérer ce processus de diversification. nous devons par ailleurs – c’est une première et c’est un message fort que nous adressons – mettre sur pied des plateformes pour acheter en commun les énergies dont nous avons besoin et développer ainsi un levier européen plus puissant visant à mettre concrètement le cap sur l’indépendance énergétique et à engendrer, nous l’espérons aussi, des répercussions favorables en matière de maîtrise des prix. les prix: c’est là le troisième point que nous nous employons à résoudre. nous voyions bien que, déjà avant cette guerre, la hausse des prix de l’énergie touchait durement, douloureusement, les citoyens, les familles, les ménages, mais aussi la capacité de nos entreprises à faire face, à se développer, raison pour laquelle, depuis la fin de l’été, avant cette guerre, nous avions mandaté la commission pour travailler sur des propositions opérationnelles. certaines d’entre elles ont été reçues la veille du conseil ou le jour même du conseil européen, et nous nous retrouverons très rapidement dans les semaines à venir. la commission l’a annoncé: autour de la mi-mai, des éléments additionnels seront présentés. nous avons souhaité par exemple que les secteurs économiques et industriels soient consultés de manière approfondie quant aux mesures précises qu’il est possible de prendre et lesquelles sont susceptibles d’avoir un poids réel. je ne reviens pas, car vous le savez, sur le stockage du gaz, très important pour l’hiver prochain, ni sur les investissements en interconnexions et en infrastructures, indispensables. nous avons aussi abordé, bien sûr, la question de la sécurité alimentaire. il s’agit d’un élément de souveraineté fondamental pour nous. en européens, nous devons prendre des mesures à ce sujet. là aussi, la veille du conseil, la commission a produit un document, sur lequel nous allons continuer à travailler avec vous, j’en suis convaincu. nous devons donc nous attaquer à cette question en prenant en compte la situation des pays en développement, notamment dans notre voisinage. je pense au continent africain en particulier, qui va souffrir, qui souffre déjà et qui souffrira davantage encore. cela doit nous mobiliser. c’est le sens de cette proposition de la présidence française, le plan «farm», qui vise à activer, avec le concours d’organisations internationales et de la commission européenne, une batterie de mesures. pas seulement des mesures de soutien financier, mais également des mesures réglementaires afin de faciliter la mise en place de dispositifs qui touchent aux importations ou aux exportations, sur le plan alimentaire toujours. avant de conclure, je voudrais, avec un peu de solennité, aborder la question de la sécurité et de la défense à cette tribune. je voudrais demander avec solennité d’en finir avec la prétendue «europe naïve». il est essentiel de ne jamais oublier que l’union européenne est un projet de paix, et parce que nous sommes un projet de paix, précisément parce que nous sommes un projet de paix, nous devons avoir la capacité de porter le langage de la puissance. c’est le sens – et je l’en remercie – de l’engagement du haut représentant envers la boussole stratégique, et ce depuis de nombreux mois, bien avant le déclenchement de la guerre en ukraine, et c’est aussi le sens de la décision prise par l’union européenne, quelques heures après le déclenchement de la guerre, de livrer des armes, pour la première fois dans l’histoire de l’union européenne. c’est l’union européenne, et avec elle les états membres, qui, en livrant des armes à l’ukraine, se trouve opérationnellement à ses côtés. c’est aussi le sens, ne l’oublions pas, de l’article 42, paragraphe 7, de notre traité que nous avons ici réaffirmé, article qui traite de la sécurité collective et la boussole stratégique. la boussole stratégique n’est pas, soyons clairs, un document de plus qui prendra la poussière en haut de l’armoire. cette boussole stratégique, c’est une vision ambitieuse, engagée, avec des propositions concrètes et opérationnelles, avec la possibilité, dans le débat démocratique et de manière régulière, d’évaluer lesdites mesures. marché commun en matière d’armement et en matière d’industrie militaire, partenariats, développement des efforts dans le domaine cyber ou dans le domaine spatial, force de déploiement rapide – 5 000 hommes pour commencer, c’est l’ambition. sur tous ces sujets-là, nous aurons l’exigence de rendre des comptes pour montrer les progrès qui auront été réalisés. enfin, madame la présidente, je conclus en vous disant qu’avec la présidente de la commission et le haut représentant nous avons eu l’occasion d’un sommet il y a quelques jours avec les autorités chinoises. nous mesurons bien qu’il faut démontrer jour après jour que cette guerre n’est pas, comme le met en avant le kremlin, une confrontation entre d’un côté la russie, et, de l’autre, l’union européenne et l’otan. c’est la raison pour laquelle nous devons être engagés sur le terrain international, y compris envers la chine. nous nous étions méticuleusement préparés pour argumenter, plaider et expliquer de façon pédagogique aux autorités chinoises qu’il était essentiel pour elles de ne pas soutenir, ni directement ni indirectement, la russie, dans l’optique de contourner les sanctions qui ont été décidées. nous avons eu l’occasion de réaffirmer nos positions sur les droits de l’homme et sur les valeurs démocratiques. nous avons aussi eu l’occasion de montrer que l’intérêt général de la stabilité, de la paix et de la prospérité dans le monde allait aussi dépendre de l’attitude de la chine et de celle d’autres pays. nous n’allons pas relâcher nos efforts. ce sommet est une étape, et nous allons continuer à activer les moyens dont nous disposons pour encourager la chine et les autres pays dans le monde à être du côté du soutien à l’ukraine, du côté du droit international, de la paix et de la prospérité. mesdames et messieurs, il y a quelques semaines – nous étions quelques jours avant le déclenchement de la guerre –, vous aviez choisi – comme nous l’avions fait, à juste titre, au conseil européen – de proposer au président zelensky de nous délivrer son message. ses mots, qui résonnent dans nos cœurs et dans nos têtes, il nous les a adressés en guise de défi, en nous disant à nous, les yeux dans les yeux: «êtes-vous réellement des européens? » êtes-vous réellement des européens? cette question m’habite chaque instant depuis le déclenchement de cette guerre, et parce que nous voulons être à la hauteur, parce que nous voulons réellement être des européens, c’est la ténacité, c’est le sang-froid et c’est l’unité qui feront la différence. vladimir poutine ne peut pas et ne va pas gagner cette guerre, parce qu’à la fin ce sont les valeurs de l’europe, de la liberté et de la démocratie qui vont l’emporter.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on behalf of the council. – madam president, i have the honour of participating in this debate, representing the council of the union since the high representative has the honour of chairing the two formations of the council relating to foreign affairs and security and defence. allow me to continue in spanish. la seguridad y defensa y la política exterior están viviendo momentos especialmente importantes en la construcción de europa. la guerra contra ucrania representa un momento fundador y un momento de despertar de los europeos, que se enfrentan a una crisis de seguridad, que demuestra nuestras debilidades; a una dependencia energética, que sabíamos que teníamos, pero que no éramos conscientes de cuán grande era; y a una posición geopolítica en el mundo que nos muestra también los riesgos de un encogimiento estratégico en el mundo dividido que va a surgir de esta guerra. me gustaría hablar sobre estos tres temas. el consejo europeo, bajo la presidencia y el liderazgo del presidente michel, nos dio un conjunto de directrices para guiar la acción. la de la comisión, por supuesto; también la del consejo. en materia de acción diplomática estamos desarrollando una intensa labor para conseguir tres objetivos. primero, aislar a rusia: aislarla de la comunidad internacional. segundo, unir a la comunidad internacional en la defensa de los principios básicos del orden basado en leyes. y tercero, evitar que este conflicto no construya un mundo dividido en torno a una nueva guerra fría que enfrente, al oeste —«the west», como suelen decir en moscú y en pekín—, con la nueva alianza de los autócratas, mientras que hay un grupo de países emergentes que cuidadosamente tratan de evitar tomar partido en este conflicto, pero que muchos de ellos se inclinan, no nos lo ocultemos, del lado de rusia. en este panorama, nuestra acción internacional se ha desarrollado y ha conseguido dos grandes triunfos diplomáticos en las naciones unidas. dos votaciones, con una gran mayoría, que han condenado a rusia y defendido los derechos humanos de los ucranianos. pero deberíamos tener mucho cuidado en analizar cuál es la solidez de esta mayoría y cuáles son las posiciones de grandes potencias que no han condenado a rusia. eso exige de nuestra parte mirar al mundo como es, no a través de nuestros ojos, sino a través de los suyos para entender las razones de esta actitud. un gran poeta español decía que «el mundo es del color del cristal con el que se mira». y nosotros hemos de aprender a mirar el mundo con el color del cristal de los demás para entenderlo mejor. desde el punto de vista de seguridad y defensa, el consejo europeo ha adoptado la brújula estratégica (gracias por recordarlo, señor presidente), que es la manera de guiar el aumento de nuestras capacidades en este terreno. porque esta crisis ha venido a demostrar nuestras debilidades en materia de seguridad y defensa. desde el año 2008, cuando se inicia la crisis del euro, los europeos seguimos nuestro proceso de desarme hasta alcanzar el punto más bajo en 2014. desde entonces hemos aumentado nuestras capacidades militares, pero estamos todavía en el 1,5 % del pib todos los países en conjunto. nos hemos acostumbrado a vivir bajo el paraguas protector de los estados unidos y confiando en que el ser miembros de la otan resolvería todos nuestros problemas. no hay alternativa a la otan para la defensa territorial de europa; digámoslo claramente. pero aparte de eso, tenemos que asumir nuestra parte de responsabilidad. hay que acabar con un cierto grado de irresponsabilidad de los europeos frente a los problemas de su seguridad y defensa. pero sería un grave error que todos los estados miembros aumentasen sus gastos de defensa de forma proporcional a los de cada uno ahora. eso sería un inmenso despilfarro, porque no haríamos sino multiplicar las actuales duplicaciones y seguiríamos teniendo las mismas lagunas que tenemos. hemos de hacerlo de una forma coordinada para optimizar los recursos de los contribuyentes. y ese es el gran trabajo que tenemos por delante. no solo gastar más, sino gastar mejor. hay que seguir defendiendo a ucrania. hace unos pocos días un diputado a este parlamento me decía que había que acabar la guerra cuanto antes y que para acabar la guerra lo mejor que podíamos hacer era dejar de armar a ucrania. sí, hay que acabar la guerra cuanto antes. pero cuando la guerra se acabe ¿cómo se acabará? cuanto antes, sí, pero no de cualquier manera. nos importa cómo acabe esta guerra. porque si esta guerra se acaba con un país destruido y dominado, despiezado territorialmente y neutralizado; con millones de exiliados y miles de muertos, entonces, no, no queremos que esta guerra se acabe así. y para que esta guerra no se acabe así, hemos de continuar apoyando a ucrania suministrándole... (aplausos)gracias señorías, no queremos que esta guerra se acabe así, cuanto antes sí, pero no de cualquier manera. y para eso hemos de seguir armando a ucrania. zelensky necesita menos aplausos y más ayuda. zelensky necesita que le digamos menos veces que es un héroe y que le demos más armas para luchar. eso es lo que esperan de nosotros los ucranianos. y eso es lo que estamos haciendo. y hemos de hacerlo más y más deprisa. debemos seguir presionando a rusia y seguir armando a ucrania. debemos ayudarles en su defensa y combatir al invasor con todas las capacidades que tenemos a nuestro alcance. hemos dado a ucrania cerca de 1 000 millones de euros —lo que puede parecer mucho—, pero 1 000 millones de euros es lo que pagamos a putin cada día por la energía que nos suministra. desde que empezó la guerra, le hemos dado 35 mil millones de euros. compárenlo con los 1 000 millones que les hemos dado a los ucranianos para armarles. esta gigantesca diferencia debe señalar también la necesidad de llevar a la práctica lo que el consejo europeo nos ha ordenado: disminuir la dependencia energética, y en eso la comisión ejercerá sin duda su liderazgo, proponiendo las acciones necesarias para ello. hoy, acabamos con el carbón, pero es una parte muy pequeña de la factura. nuestra independencia, nuestra autonomía energética, pasa por el desarrollo de las energías renovables y, por una vez, la geopolítica y el cambio climático se dan la mano en un objetivo común. finalmente, quiero insistir en una idea que me parece fundamental: los europeos debemos tomar conciencia del mundo en el que vivimos. somos el 5 % de la población mundial; el 5 % de la población mundial. éramos el 25 % cuando se acabó la última gran guerra. estamos rodeados por un círculo de inestabilidad desde gibraltar hasta el cáucaso, con una población que es dos veces más joven que nosotros y somos muy dependientes en materia energética. pocos, envejecidos y dependientes no es una receta para el futuro. necesitamos rejuvenecernos. necesitamos ampliar nuestra influencia. necesitamos tener más capacidades para defender nuestros principios y nuestros valores. y tenemos que usar todos los poderosos medios que tenemos para ejercer nuestra influencia en el mundo de una forma coordinada entre lo que representan los estados y lo que representa la comisión. gracias a dios, tenemos la unión europea. si no la tuviéramos, la tendríamos que inventar. porque ¿qué sería de cada uno de los estados miembros hoy si estuvieran solos? ¿qué sería del más grande de ellos, incluso el más grande y poderoso, si tuviera que hacer frente solo al nuevo mundo que se viene encima? por eso nuestra unidad, la unidad de los europeos, ese gran activo que día a día forjamos, tiene que ser la guía, la brújula que nos guíe para defender lo que somos: la mejor combinación de libertad política, prosperidad económica y cohesión social que el mundo ha sido capaz de construir. eso está hoy en peligro, pero los europeos lo sabremos defender.
president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, only seven weeks ago, bucha was a friendly and quiet suburb on the outskirts of kyiv. but last week, humanity itself was killed in bucha. it was killed in cold blood, executed with its hands tied and a bullet in the head. it was left to rot in the middle of the street or in mass graves. we have all seen the haunting images of bucha. and we have heard the testimonies of those who speak freely again, now that the russian army has left. ‘they shot everyone they saw’, one witness said about putin’s soldiers. this, honourable members, is what is happening when putin’s soldiers occupy ukrainian territory. they call it liberation. no, we call it war crimes. and we really have to give it this name. the european union has set up a joint investigation team with ukraine to collect evidence and testimonies on the ground. we will hold accountable those who are responsible for war crimes. the perpetrators must pay. after bucha, more than ever, europe stands firmly with ukraine. we stand with ukrainians in their devastated cities and their bomb shelters. we stand with them in their parliament, surrounded by sandbags and barricades. we stand with the millions who flee the invaders. and we will do everything in our power to ensure that they can return home safely. this is the message high representative / vice—president borrell and i will bring to president zelenskyy when we will be visiting kyiv at the end of this week. at this critical point in the war, we must increase the pressure on putin again, and the russian government. this is why we propose to tighten our sanctions even further. the fifth package has six pillars. first: we impose an import ban on coal from russia, worth eur 4 billion a year. finally, it was high time to take this step. it is the first time that we directly sanction the import of fossil fuels from russia, thus cutting an important revenue source. second: a full transaction ban on four key russian banks, among them vtb, the second largest russian bank. these four banks, which we now totally cut off from the markets, represent 23% of the market share in the russian banking sector. this will again weaken russia’s financial system. third: a ban on russian vessels and russian-operated vessels from accessing eu ports. additionally, we will propose a ban on russian and belarusian road transport operators. this ban will drastically limit the options for russian industry to obtain key goods. the fourth and the fifth measures are on imports and exports. further targeted export bans, worth eur 10 billion, in the areas where russia is vulnerable – from quantum computing to advanced technologies, semiconductors, machinery, transportation equipment. with this, we will continue to degrade russia’s technological base and industrial capacity. fifth: specific new import bans, worth eur 5.5 billion, to cut the money stream of russia and its oligarchs, on products from wood to cement, from seafood to liquor. in doing this, we also close the loopholes between russia and belarus. the sixth measure is: very targeted measures, such as a general ban on participation of russian companies in any kind of public procurement in the member states, or an exclusion of all financial support, be it at european level, be it at member state level, to russian public bodies. because, honourable members, european taxpayers’ money should not go to russia in whatever shape or form. and, therefore, we have to be tough on the measures; we have to be consistent in the sanctions; we have to be increasingly, gradually stepping up. our sanctions are hard, because they limit the kremlin’s political and economic options. they are smart because they affect russia much harder than us. honourable members, these sanctions will not be our last sanctions. as i said already yesterday: yes, we have now banned coal. but now we have to look into oil and we will have to look into the revenues that russia gets from fossil fuels. and we really have to make an effort, for example to take a share to an escrow banking system so that we will really limit the source of revenues of russia from fossil fuels. there has to be an end to that, and this is the next step we will have to take together. more than 40 countries are applying sanctions like these. and we expect others to respect our measures or, at the very least, not to circumvent and undermine our sanctions. this was our message to china at our summit last friday. we made clear how crucial it is for us in europe, but also for the rest of the world, to take a clear stance. a clear stance against putin’s war of choice, against the massacres of civilians and against the violation of the fundamental principles of the world order. and, as a permanent member of the un security council, china has a special responsibility to uphold international peace and security. nobody can be neutral when faced with such naked aggression against civilians. this is not a war limited to europe, which russia has unleashed. this will also define how we globally treat such violations of international law in the future. and also china has to take a clear stance on that. honourable members, europe today is more resolute than ever to stand for the principles we cherish most. and to this aim, we must also protect ourselves from the knock—on effects of this war. this is true for energy. we have to get rid of our dependency on fossil fuels. and for that we also have to diversify, away from russia. building on the work of the eu energy council, president biden and i have just launched another agreement, and this is threefold. first, on the supply side, the us provides us with at least an additional 15 billion cubic metres of lng gas this year. this gives us the opportunity to replace the russian lng this year. second, for the coming years we are aiming for at least an additional 50 billion cubic metres annually. this will give us the opportunity to replace at least one—third of the russian pipeline gas arriving in europe. and the third is: we focus together on building a greener future with climate neutrality. the one goes with the other. we engage with our energy—intensive industry to further reduce the demand. this is existential that we look at the energy efficiency. and it is good news that the infrastructure we use for gas today can also be used or repurposed for clean hydrogen in the future. thus, the us and the european union have not only worked closely together on designing an effective and determined response to russia’s war, but we are also supporting each other in the transition towards green energy. honourable members, in these dark times, there is one thing that truly makes me proud. people in every corner of our union have rolled up their sleeves to help our ukrainian friends in need. right now, more than 10 million ukrainians are either internally displaced or seeking shelter abroad. this is a quarter of the ukrainian population. the bulk of this work is carried out by local authorities, it is carried out by citizens. this is why we frontloaded eur 3.4 billion in cohesion funds to address the most urgent needs. this means classrooms, hospital beds and employment support in the regions that are hosting the largest numbers of ukrainians. and here, the polish people are amazing. the entire country is standing in solidarity with their ukrainian guests. this is why, together with prime minister justin trudeau of canada, we are convening a pledging event for ukraine in warsaw next saturday, for ukrainian refugees in ukraine and outside ukraine. president duda is joining us. we call our campaign ‘stand up for ukraine’. and we will do it together with the international advocacy organisation global citizen. we will mobilise support for people fleeing the invasion of ukraine. together with us, citizens, sportspeople, civil society, artists like bono, u2, madonna and chris, will stand up for ukraine. they will call on governments, they will call on the business community to join our efforts. the brave people of ukraine deserve solidarity from all around the globe. slava ukraini. long live europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to begin by thanking roberta metsola. it was the right moment to go to kiev last week and to send a signal of unity and solidarity among democrats, among elected parliamentarians. it was a brave move to make this journey. and, dear roberta, i want to thank you again for that. the commission has also announced that it will be taking part in the visit of the president of the commission to kiev next week, together with the high representative. the signals come at the right time. they are more urgently needed than ever. mariupol almost completely destroyed, deportations of ukrainian citizens to russia, mass rapes of ukrainian women by soldiers, by russian soldiers. and now this weekend, busha: executions of unarmed civilians whose only fault is that they are ukrainians. one's breath is choked, one is speechless. and to be honest, you're a little embarrassed about the powerlessness that characterizes you. i am thinking of the european idea. the past century was marked by war crimes. it was marked by massacres of civilians, by genocide carried out by german soldiers. the lesson we learned from this was never again, never again. the question i ask myself today is, does this spirit live? how strong is this european spirit? are we serious about "never again"? 'never again' means first of all: the acute attempt to bring justice in this difficult situation, to carry out investigations, to take up evidence for the war crimes that have been committed. european support should be ensured wherever possible. putin is a war criminal. the murderers of butcha must be brought to justice. you won't be able to hide. no war criminal should feel safe in europe. this is the first "never again". the second "never again" is weapons, weapons, weapons. the supplies we are currently making available to our ukrainian friends are not enough. and frankly, it's a disgrace to europe that we can't get production up any faster now that we can produce weapons. we need heavy weapons, too. the supply of tanks from the czech republic is a good sign. and yes, if we are not prepared to establish a no-fly zone, then ukraine needs air defense missiles to assert itself. "never again" also means that we are now helping ukraine financially. we have reports that the state is going bankrupt in the next few days because there is no revenue and the costs are still there. that is why money cannot be a factor in this matter. never again also means supporting the new sanctions package, an energy embargo. coal is a good move. in fact, it makes you wonder why we needed new images to take this step. but we want to go one step further. i believe that in the european parliament's negotiations there is now a broad consensus in favour of our resolution that we, as the european parliament, should also call for an immediate halt to oil supplies to the european union. there are huge profits that would no longer flow to russia. and if we talk about the sanctions package, then it's right that we close european ports to russian ships, that we launch a comprehensive sanctions package for the banks, that we block all banks from swift now. and i would like to specifically mention that we should finally take over individuals from the list of the foundation of alexei navalny. there are people on it that we should put on the european sanctions list. "never again" also means that no one can remain neutral. i would therefore like to thank charles michel and ursula von der leyen in particular for the clarity they provided at the eu-china summit last friday. it is depressing to see china taking russian propaganda into its argument, and especially after bush, china must know: whoever supports putin, whoever supports russia, is on the wrong side. and we europeans will also be faced with the question of whether we can credibly announce, together with the usa: whoever supports russia, whoever supplies arms, must expect consequences. and 'never again' means that we need a position of strength as europeans. europe must arm itself. the european dimension is unfortunately lacking in the initiatives. we know of many initiatives at national level to strengthen defence. but the european dimension is missing. and it is urgently needed. never again, ladies and gentlemen, mass executions of defenceless civilians, mass rapes, genocide and war. putin is the opposite of what europe stands for, what the idea of europe stands for. the war in ukraine is our war. and so we ask ourselves, are we living up to that? are we acting like europeans now? never again now!
the summits of nato, the g7 and the european council have served to strengthen the international coalition against putin's criminal war and to strengthen our mutual defence and to extend sanctions. in particular, the european union summit reaches a key agreement to start also alleviating the impact on households and businesses in energy prices. the achievements of the summit demonstrate that when we act with solidarity and unity there are never losers, there are always winners. on the one hand, we are making progress in securing energy supplies, which naturally concerns the northern and eastern partners in particular, by means of joint gas purchases and storage capacity. on the other hand, we are taking measures to counter the rise in energy prices in the iberian peninsula partners, by recognising the energy island, which is a very important step, but we must also understand that it is only a first step, because we need to take measures to be able to cushion this increase in energy prices in all the countries of the european union. the european council's agreement must be the first step towards putting in place a next generation-inspired plan to finance the triple extra effort required by the war in energy, defence and refugee reception, as well as the survival of the ukrainian government itself. the criminal attack by putin forces us to accelerate the energy transition, to improve interconnections in europe and to improve energy saving. accelerating the energy transition will enable us to lower our energy bills, reduce our external dependence and combat climate change. there is no better way to guarantee our energy sovereignty than to stop relying on tyrants who use their fossil fuels as instruments of blackmail. now that our security is openly threatened, the plans for a defensive autonomy of the strategic compass project also force us to spend more and better with the obligation to invest in technological and human systems. the reception of over four million human beings fleeing war crimes reconciles us with the values of the european union, with the values we stand for. but our successful response to the human tragedy does not exempt us from reaching a new pact on migration and asylum to deal equitably among the 27 with the reception of refugees - of all refugees - wherever they come from. neither history nor our consciences will forgive us for looking the other way at the bodies left in the streets and in bucha's houses. the fifth package of sanctions is to ban the import of coal, oil and gas from russia, cut off the kremlin's access to cryptocurrency exchanges, take action against oligarchs' enablers, and take more aggressive measures against russian banks and energy giants. the war has taught us that there is no victory without unity and sacrifice. only with unity and sacrifice between institutions, between governments and between political families will we achieve the end of the putin regime.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we are all shocked by the atrocities that russia is committing in ukraine. the images, the testimonies of the survivors, they are unbearable. but we must not remain paralysed. there can be no questions. these more crimes cannot remain without reaction. we must take action and respond with further sanctions against vladimir putin’s criminal regime. europe’s answer must be decisive and united. we need to continue to support ukraine in its efforts to defend its freedom, including comprehensive and immediate financial assistance. and we must ensure that those who are responsible for those atrocious acts will be prosecuted and held accountable in front of the international criminal court. injustice cannot and must not prevail. dear colleagues, the war in ukraine revealed europe’s strategic mistakes in the past. even after the atrocities done in grozny and in syria, very similar to what we see today in bucha, even after putin invaded crimea and eastern ukraine, some governments continued to hope for good business with russia and made us more and more dependent on goods from russia, on energy and on other items. and this has led us today to a situation where we are struggling to free ourselves from the short—sighted dependence on fossil fuels and uranium. many mistakes were made, and now we need to make things right. we need to invest heavily in renewables and transition faster than we ever thought. this is, and will be, an enormous effort, and it won’t happen overnight. but we need to redefine what it means to act as fast as possible. we need to move to light speed. we need to save energy. therein lies the huge potential that remains untapped so far. and this is true for individuals, sure, but also and even more so for industries and for policies –and the european parliament must join efforts here as well. we also need to recognise that while the effects of the war will hit all of us, they hit us very differently. the biggest cost is obviously carried by the people who have lived and who still live in ukraine. those who died, whose close ones were killed, those who were injured and are being injured at the moment, those who fled and those who are fleeing the carnage, losing their home, their life plans, and often leaving family and friends behind. there is so much sorrow and so much despair in this suffering. when we are debating here the consequences of sanctions that we are rightfully taking, we need to keep in mind that us here in the chamber are not the ones who will be most hit by them. rising energy costs are a nuisance to some and an existential threat to others. we need to support those most in need – the families with small or no income. the european council hasn’t been very conclusive on the issues of how to support those most in need in the eu and worldwide, looking at the hunger issues, and how to further support ukraine. of course, many of the instruments needed are indeed national ones, but it is clear that we need solidarity among member states to deal with this crisis – solidarity in sharing energy and infrastructure, solidarity to enable measures, solidarity with everyone fleeing ukraine, and solidarity with the sovereign nation of ukraine. putin wants to divide us and he has failed miserably. our unity is our strength, and we need more of it – of unity, but also of courage.
in the name of the id group. madam president, madam president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr high representative, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank president metsola again because she was the first representative of a european institution who wanted to send a strong message of closeness to the ukrainian people and i believe that this is also very important in this situation. the terrible images that are coming to us from bucha and irpin touch us deeply and urge us to increase our efforts to support ukraine and the ukrainian people in this war, in this confrontation with the putin regime. but they also remind us that this is what war is: war is destruction, war is crime, war is devastation. and that is why, i believe, the union, together with support and sanctions packages, must step up its mediation efforts to find a peaceful solution, also because we cannot afford to leave these efforts to other regimes, such as turkey and china. chapter of sanctions: the commission's proposal for the fifth package is certainly a step forward, but we must not hide from the fact that this is becoming a divisive issue, mainly for one reason: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must make it clear to our citizens that this effort requires a sacrifice and the european union cannot allow this sacrifice to fall on the shoulders of citizens and businesses who are already suffering, which is why, in parallel, we must also accelerate discussions today on a package of aid that reduces these asymmetries. i believe that this can help to reassure those member states which are now more reluctant to take some steps in this direction. the ban on coal imports is also an important step, but you yourself, president von der leyen, have given us the figures: we are talking about 4 billion euros a year worth of these imports and, compared to the almost 1 billion euros we pay russia every day, we understand that it is small and there will be no real impact. on the subject of sanctions, another topic: it is important that the sanctions packages are credible. unfortunately, in the past few weeks we have seen how in many cases the west has had to find innovative solutions, to put it mildly, because it has realised that some sanctions are hurting our operators and actors more than the russian regime. it is therefore important that this element should be predominant on new packages. on energy autonomy, it is important that it is not done with ideology but with pragmatism: we need to diversify our sources, but that is not enough, they depend on as many regimes that are unstable, such as algeria. we must understand that europe is a continent which is currently energy-poor, but it is not energy-poor and we have an obligation to exploit these energy sources. in conclusion, this war has revealed a weakness in the union, which is mainly the model of industrial and economic development which we have decided to pursue for the last twenty or thirty years: a model that has made us addicted to everything: from energy, to defense, to food security, to our value chain. if we don't understand that this model needs to change, we're going to be increasingly vulnerable to local threats. i'll close with china: the message sent by the european institutions is very strong, but this request, this message must be credible. today, faced with a possible confrontation with china, europe would be weak and in a disadvantaged negotiating position. we need to work on that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, for anyone who has eyes to see, it must become clear that putin’s war will continue and that the eu’s reaction has not brought the expected results. despite the narcissistic, self—indulgent and self—congratulatory rhetoric of the european leaders, the sanctions have too many loopholes and some of the western european governments are beginning to have second thoughts. they modify their position or quibble over technicalities. the swift blockade, which was to be an atomic bomb so far resembles more a firework. the ban on the hydrocarbons proposed, among others, by poland and latvia was not accepted by the council. instead, president macron continues his absurd telephone conversations with putin and the german government continues its typical self—serving political game. this european hesitancy is precisely what putin must have counted on when deciding to invade ukraine. in the meantime, the russian economy has become stabilised more or less, moscow exchange is gaining profits, russian ruble has gone up and gazprom gets eur 900 million a day. and there is a time factor, putin has all the time he needs. he has wide support among the russian population. his army is not badly equipped. he has been devastating ukraine with the arms he bought from france, germany and eight other european countries. and this after the arms embargo that followed the annexation of crimea. and ukraine does not have time, as the war is being waged on her territory. people are killed and cities ruined. does europe have time? let us not delude ourselves. with the passing of time, western europe’s reaction will weaken and a desire to have some sort of normalisation will increase. this happened in the past more than once, and i’m afraid it might happen in the future. anyway, i wouldn’t bet it won’t.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the war in ukraine is causing terrible human tragedies. we hungarians want the bloodshed to end immediately and we hungarians will do everything in our power to help those fleeing the war. hungarians have come together as one people to help, and in the last few weeks, we have taken in almost 600,000 refugees and delivered huge amounts of aid to ukraine. this is true even if, as part of petty political trolling, many people deliberately leave hungary out of the list of countries that accept refugees. my fellow citizens! we hungarians, although we cannot accept it, have slowly become accustomed to the fact that brussels has been deliberately trying to harm hungary for years for political and ideological reasons. this was the political strategy of the left, and the bureaucrats in brussels joined the left party in this campaign. on sunday, the hungarian people voted in the parliamentary elections. this left-wing policy has failed miserably. we've never had this much authority before. we won a historic majority in the election. in hungary, christian democratic politics, conservative, civic politics and patriotic politics have won. hungarians did not express an opinion that brussels liked in the elections and the referendum on child protection. brussels bureaucrats have therefore attacked hungary immediately after the elections and yesterday announced the launch of a new procedure. another procedure, while there is a war in our neighborhood and the unity of europe is more important than anything. now, even in this situation, it's worth calling a spade a spade. the new proceedings against hungary announced yesterday have nothing to do with the rule of law, which is what the net political punishment does. member states like poland and hungary must be starved financially, the left has been clamoring, and brussels announced yesterday that they are going to launch this long-awaited starvation procedure, because that is the exact name of this procedure: starvation procedure. but the basic rules of democracy should be accepted by brussels, and not by the hungarian left, which has just been defeated. he should not be waging a political war against hungary, but should return to common sense and to a common dialogue.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for your upcoming visit to kiev, that's an important signal. and i ask you to look at the war crimes scenes. everyone is talking about butcha. in motyschyn, mayor olga suchenko, her husband and son were abducted on 23 march and killed for refusing to cooperate with the occupying forces. we now know what would happen to ukraine as a whole if the russian soldier corps conquered more of ukraine. that's why we must win this war for the sake of the people. but the rest of the world is also watching to see if the west is losing ground again or standing stronger in the end because freedom and democracy have triumphed over dictatorship and war crimes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would urge all governments to look again at what they have in their vaults. many military personnel do not voluntarily tell the political leadership what is actually there. so check it out and deliver it quickly. as for the sanctions, we know that what we are doing is a triple step. yes, it is right to impose a coal embargo now. but we also know - and it has already been said by both of us here - that this is, in doubt, just another step, and there must be more to come. i am convinced that if we were to try to impose an oil embargo now, for example, and there is enough oil on the market, that would have a decisive effect, because that is the biggest part of the revenue, so i would ask you to move quickly and make sure that there is an oil embargo and, of course, the gas embargo. i am quite sure that there is strong support for this in parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the massacre at bucha has shocked us: but it is no longer enough to condemn the atrocities committed by the russian army and to show solidarity with the ukrainian people. we must stop this barbarity: these war crimes against defenseless civilians must stop. despite the heavy effects on the russian economy, the sanctions put in place so far are not bringing putin to the negotiating table for an immediate ceasefire. now is the time to do all we can, to step up our efforts. the new sanctions package, the fifth, includes a first major ban on the import of coal from russia. but this year, moscow could earn over $300 billion from gas and oil exports alone, up to a third more than in 2021, with which to finance other atrocities, such as those committed on the doorstep of the ukrainian capital. and that's where we need to act. we cannot see any more bucha before we take decisive measures to stop the import of gas and oil from russia as soon as possible. it's a difficult road, we know, but it can be done if we keep in mind the only real weapon we have: our cohesion. we have faced the pandemic with unity and solidarity, first with the joint vaccine procurement plan and then with next generation eu. the same approach must now be adopted to ensure adequate energy security in europe and to counteract the shocks that may result from a blockade of gas imports from russia, which will have different effects in the individual member states. diversification of energy supplies and sources, a plan for joint gas storage and purchasing, increased investment in renewables and interconnections, joint support for sectors in crisis and a ceiling on the cost of gas, against the speculation that is putting households and businesses in difficulty: these are the actions to be taken. it's not going to be easy, but we have no choice. it is the price we must pay for defending our freedom and our dignity and, above all, for stopping the war in europe.
madam president, dear colleagues, i was just counting that we have 35 colleagues here – that’s about 5% of the parliament – on this important topic. first of all, i know that it’s so shocking to see in the media about those mass murders, about those rapes, about those crimes, what’s happening in ukraine. but what i do not understand is that we are also surprised that it is possible in the 21st century. unfortunately, it is possible, because if you are looking at the army who’s doing this, the same army did exactly the same against women in germany in 1945. the same army did the same against the polish people in the 1940s. and the biggest problem is that they have never, ever learned that you shouldn’t do war crimes; you shouldn’t rape others’ wives. you shouldn’t kill children. they have never, ever learned this. so the mentality is exactly the same. when we here in western europe are so shocked that it’s still possible – yes, it is possible, absolutely, because there’s been never, ever, any denazification in russia. if they are talking about denazification, the only one who really needs this is russia, because they are the really new nazis who are making the war crimes against the civilians. secondly, if we’re talking about sanctions, yes, sanctions are effective in the long term, not in the short term. the problem is that the expectation for this year is that the profit will be eur 321 billion for russia for gas and oil. so if we’re going to talk about sanctions, it has to be really effective. and, of course, the problem is that they’re going to be very harmful also for us. but that’s the price we have to pay. thirdly, for the end, i know that mr borrell and mr michel are going to have a nice lunch after this debate and a nice dinner with a good wine. but the main work, what we really have to do now here, is to convince more and more countries to give weapons to ukraine to fight against the aggressor. that’s the main work we have to do here. we can discuss here with political debates about sanctions, for hours, but that’s your main work, what you really have to do: to convince more eu countries to give more weapons to ukraine to fight against this nazi army.
chairman of the counting session! russia's hybrid, information and cyber attacks are nothing new, russia has used them for decades to achieve its political goals, and ukraine has been a testing ground for russian cyber attacks for years. it is very welcome that the european union responded before the aggression of 24 february and sent a cyber response team to ukraine. we must continue to help ukraine. the european union and its member states' cyber capabilities and cyber security must not be forgotten. the european union's strategic compass, enisa, recognises shortcomings in these areas, and in this context i would like to highlight three points. first, cybersecurity must be made a political priority with the necessary financial and human resources. second, we need to improve communication and cooperation with nato, and third, russian attacks must not go unanswered. it is important to respond to them, starting with the disclosure and attribution of attacks and ending with joint countermeasures.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 4 may 2022.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of vote. we have a request for an explanation of vote on some of the votes that have taken place today. we shall begin with the report by mr domènec ruiz devesa of the committee on constitutional affairs on the proposal for a council regulation on the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage and repealing council decision 76/787/ecsc, eec, euratom and the act establishing direct universal suffrage for the election of the members of the european parliament (2020/2220) (inl) (a90083/2022). i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, i have some reservations about the reform of the electoral system for elections to the european parliament, but i will start on a positive note. i appreciate the many concrete steps taken to unify the basic conditions for the exercise of the right to vote, both for candidates and for european political parties, and also for voters. for example, the fact that they're going to know their candidates by a fixed deadline, i think that's a very concrete positive development. also, the voting quotas, where today the mps are elected in different schemes of the electoral threshold, somewhere it's 3.5%, somewhere it's 5%. the fight against double voting, i think, is also a positive move, as is the postal vote. i expressed reservations, in particular, about transnational candidate lists, which was reflected in the outcome of my vote.
mr president, i have endorsed this report. i think this report represents a positive step forward in protecting the health of the citizens of the european union. these persistent organic pollutants have a negative impact on human health and i welcomed the extension of the amendment of those annexes iv and v to regulation (eu) 2019/1021 of the european parliament and of the council. our goal should be to protect human health. these are some of the most dangerous chemicals in the world, like bisphenol. they have a dramatic impact, for example, on the development of the human fetus. i am glad that we have taken the path of extension and precaution based on scientific knowledge to extend this list in these annexes. i think this is a good move and good news for european citizens that we are not going to let up in protecting their health.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the blue economy in europe. we have succeeded in introducing, through our amendments, effective protections for the marine environment, including the need to ban environmentally harmful industrial extractive activities, including drilling, in marine protected areas. unfortunately, we have not been able to maintain the original text in which parliament for the first time called for a ban on trawling in marine protected areas. i am, however, pleased that this report stresses the importance of small-scale coastal fishing, recognising the need to protect the segment and promote its development also through the allocation of a larger share of fishing opportunities. the text stresses the need to guarantee decent working conditions, social security and representation in organisations and decision-making processes. the text also recognises the role of women in fisheries and aquaculture, but it is necessary to increase their visibility and ensure equal access to employment. the report is therefore certainly a step towards a sustainable and inclusive blue economy.
mr president, i also supported this report because it clearly condemns harmful fishing practices, whether driftnets or bottom trawls. we must certainly limit these harmful practices, and this is what this report and our legislation are doing. we already have a completely dead area of our seas where there is practically no life. and the current fisheries regulations, which are already being applied on the basis of international conventions, also show that they are producing long-term results, restoring stocks, transferring biodiversity to these marine areas. i think we need to focus on selective fishing methods rather than industrial fishing and we need to restore the health and biodiversity of our seas, which this report certainly does.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the european union's action plan for organic farming. this report unequivocally supports the development of organic farming. after the environmental sacrifices of the new cap and while the war in ukraine reminds us of the urgency of moving away from an agricultural model based on hydrocarbons for its fertilisers and pesticides, the european parliament has taken the right position on the action plan for organic farming, a key sector also for my country, italy. our intensive model has gone beyond the limits of the environment and it is urgent to change our food model, to produce better and not necessarily more. this report is a further step towards achieving the farm to fork objectives, defining organic farming as economically sound for farmers and healthy for consumers, and supporting local production and short supply chains. this is the direction we need to go for our health and the health of the planet.
the explanation of vote on the report by mr lega is as follows. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the meeting is closed and will resume at 8.30 a.m. tomorrow, wednesday 4 may 2022, with a debate on a priority topic containing the council and commission statements on the impact of the russian war in ukraine on society and the economy in the eu and on strengthening the eu's capacity to act (2022/2653 ((rsp)). the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website. we have reached the end of today's agenda. i thank you all for your cooperation and wish you all a blessed night's rest. the meeting is closed.
i have one announcement. in relation to the decisions by the pech, imco and libe committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71(1), announced at the opening of the sitting on monday, 2 may, i have requests for a vote in parliament, pursuant to rule 71(2), from the id and ecr groups, reaching at least the medium threshold, on the decisions of the libe committee to enter into negotiations on the two proposals for regulations concerning the eu digital covid certificate. the vote will be held tomorrow. concerning the other decisions to enter into negotiations, i have received no requests for a vote in parliament by members or a political group or groups reaching at least the medium threshold and therefore the committees may start the negotiations on the basis of these reports.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the social and economic consequences for the european union of the russian war in ukraine – reinforcing the european union’s capacity to act (2022/2653(rsp)).
president of the council. madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, the united nations refugee agency estimates that more than 5 million ukrainian civilians have already fled their country since the military aggression by russia. at the last informal meeting in versailles, the european heads of state or government strongly condemned russia's unjustified and unprovoked military aggression against ukraine and affirmed that the union and its member states will continue to provide coordinated political, financial, material and humanitarian support. united and united, the member states have made a major effort to welcome millions of refugees. beyond the humanitarian crisis, this conflict has inevitably slowed the post-covid-19 recovery phase. the socioeconomic effects of the crisis have been mitigated by coordinated and unprecedented national and european responses, but major challenges remain. while it is certain that this wave of refugees will have budgetary consequences for the european union and the member states, particularly the states bordering ukraine, which are still difficult to quantify, it may also represent an opportunity for the european union if refugees wish to integrate permanently into the labour market in the host countries. the revision of the care regulation (cohesion action for refugees in europe), adopted at the beginning of april, makes it possible to mobilise various european funds to finance measures in favour of ukrainian refugees. for example, these funds make it possible to invest in education, employment, housing, health, childcare and also in basic material assistance. on 4 march, the council unanimously adopted an implementing decision providing temporary protection for people fleeing the war in ukraine, thus providing harmonised rights throughout the union, while ensuring a balance of effort between the different member states. this is the right to live and work in the union, but also to have access to social benefits. some member states even provide financial support to refugees as soon as they arrive. in order to support integration, school-age children have access to national education systems. adults benefit from training and integration into the labour market, with the active involvement of public employment services and social partners. in economic terms, russian aggression against ukraine, sanctions and countermeasures, their impact on transport and value chains, and russia's decoupling from international trade are likely to also affect the european economy, already weakened by the covid-19 crisis, in a lasting way. the conflict has caused prices to soar and has hampered the supply of raw materials such as wheat, cereals and energy. the rising inflation in europe is affecting our households and businesses. energy security and supply and the fight against certain shortages have become a priority. european leaders at versailles agreed to reduce the dependence of member states on imports of russian gas, oil and coal, and their dependence on fossil fuels. to break free from gazprom's grip, manage rising energy prices and secure supply chains, europe needs to diversify supply, accelerate green energy production, jointly buy energy and reduce demand, all while preserving the long-term global competitiveness of eu companies, which suffer from high energy costs. reducing europe's strategic spending requires accelerating certain processes, such as the green and digital transitions. under the french presidency, the council is working to ensure gas supplies for the coming winter. in this context, it is essential to maintain strong european solidarity and to respect the sanctions we have set. i also welcome the commission's presentation of the repowereu plan on 18 may to reduce our energy dependence on russia through joint european action to promote more affordable, safer and more sustainable energy. we are at a historic turning point for our energy transition and self-sufficiency. the green transition will bring new opportunities in terms of jobs, while in the long term we will be able to break the energy dependency that we are suffering from. it is also clear that these short-term social and distributive impacts, especially on the most vulnerable, need to be re-examined in the light of the current and evolving situation. as it stands, this transition is our only viable option. so we need to accelerate the movement on energy efficiency, on renewables and on hydrogen. energy poverty now affects nearly 34 million people in the union. about one in five people with incomes below the poverty line say they are unable to heat their homes properly. as announced in the 'adapting to objective 55' package and with a view to ensuring a fair transition to climate neutrality, the commission proposed to examine the relevant social and employment aspects of the green transition. under the french presidency, the council engaged in discussions with a view to the final adoption of the proposal for recommendations to ensure a just transition to climate neutrality, which tackles energy poverty and aims to promote access to essential energy services for individuals. this proposal promotes increased monitoring of the implementation of the just transition policies, in particular the impact on the most disadvantaged groups and the risk of energy poverty. in addition, some member states have already promoted access to energy as an essential service for the most vulnerable groups, in line with principle 20 of the european pillar of social rights. the council will continue to act decisively to counter the adverse effects of the conflict on our economies and societies, while ensuring a common and united effort among member states. our priority remains to protect and consolidate our economic and social model by ensuring that no one is left behind.
president of the commission. – madam president, next week we will mark europe day. it is the 72nd birthday of our union and on this europe day we will, of course, talk about the future of our union – how we make it stronger, more resilient, closer to the people. but the answer to all these questions, we cannot give alone in these days. the answer is also given in ukraine. it is given in kharkiv, where ukrainian first responders venture into the combat zone to help those wounded by russian attacks. it is given in the small town of bucha, where survivors are coping with the atrocities committed against civilians by russian soldiers. and it is given these days in mariupol, where ukrainians are resisting a russian force, which greatly outnumbers them. because they are fighting to reaffirm basic ideas: that they are the master of their future and not a foreign leader, that it is the international law that counts and not the right of might. and that putin must pay a high price for his brutal aggression. thus, the future of our european union is also written in ukraine. and therefore, today i would like to speak about two topics. first about sanctions and second about relief and reconstruction for ukraine. today, we are presenting our sixth package of sanctions. first, we are listing high-ranking military officers and individuals who committed war crimes in bucha and those who are responsible for the inhuman siege of the city of mariupol. this sends another important signal to all perpetrators of the kremlin. we know who you are. we will hold you accountable. you’re not getting away with this. second, we finally de-swift sberbank – sberbank is the largest russian bank and it holds around 37% of the whole banking sector – and we will also de-swift two other major banks in russia. by that, we hit banks that are systemically critical to the russian financial system and putin’s ability to wage destruction. this will solidify the complete isolation of the russian financial sector from the global system. third, we are banning three big russian state-owned broadcasters from our airwaves. they will not be allowed to distribute their content any more in the european union, in whatever shape or form, be it on cable, via satellite, on the internet or via smartphone apps. we have identified these tv channels as mouthpieces that amplify putin’s lies and propaganda aggressively. we should not give them a stage anymore to spread these lies. fourth, the kremlin relies on accountants, consultants and spin doctors from europe, and this will now stop. we are banning those services from being provided to russian companies. my final point – number five – is sanctions on oil. when the leaders met in versailles, they agreed to phase out our dependency on russian fossil fuels. in the last sanction package, as you know, we started with coal. today, we are addressing our dependency on russian oil. let’s be clear: it will not be easy because some member states are strongly dependent on russian oil. but we simply have to do it. so today we will propose to ban all russian oil from europe. this will be a complete import ban on all russian oil: seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined. we will make sure that we phase out russian oil in an orderly fashion, so in a way that allows us and our partners to secure alternative supply routes and, at the same time, be very careful that we minimise the impact on the global market. this is why we will phase out russian supply of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year. thus, we maximise the pressure on russia, while at the same time – and this is important – we minimise the collateral damage to us and our partners around the globe, because to help ukraine we have to make sure that our economy remains strong. honourable members, with all these steps, we are depriving the russian economy of its ability to diversify and modernise. putin wanted to wipe out ukraine from the map and he will clearly not succeed. on the contrary: ukraine has risen in bravery and in unity, and it is his own country, russia, that putin is sinking. we want ukraine to win this war, but we also want to set the conditions for ukraine’s success in the aftermath of the war. this is my second point: relief and reconstruction. the first step is immediate relief. this is about short—term economic support to help ukrainians cope with the fall-out of the war. we have done a lot already. let me remind you of our macro—financial assistance package or the direct support to the ukrainian budget. in addition, we recently proposed to suspend all import duties on ukrainian exports to our union for one year. i am sure that the european parliament will put its weight behind this idea and this proposal. but we all know this is not enough for the short-term relief. ukraine’s gdp is expected to fall by 35% to 50% this year alone and the imf estimates that, from may on, ukraine needs eur 5 billion per month, plainly and simply to keep the country running, so to pay pensions and salaries, and to provide for basic services. we have to support them, but i also know that we cannot do this alone, so i very much welcome that the united states has announced massive budgetary support, and we, as team europe, have to do our share too. but then, in a second phase, there is the wider reconstruction effort, and you all know that the scale of the destruction is staggering. hospitals and schools, houses, roads, bridges, railways, theatres, factories – you just name it – so much has to be rebuilt. of course, in the fog of war, it is difficult to come up with a precise estimate, but economists are talking about several hundred billion euros. and here, honourable members, i think europe has a very special responsibility towards ukraine. with our support – and of course with the help of the international financial institutions and other global partners – ukraine can rebuild their country for the next generation. this is why today i propose to you that we start working on an ambitious recovery package for our ukrainian friends. if we do it right, this package should bring massive investments to meet the needs and the necessary reforms in parallel. so it should address the existing weaknesses of the ukrainian economy and lay the foundation for sustainable long-term growth. it could set a system of milestones and targets to make sure that the european money truly delivers for the people of ukraine and is spent in accordance with european rules. it could help fight corruption; we have to do that. it could align the legal environment with european standards and radically upgrade ukraine’s productive capacity. this will bring the stability and the certainty that is needed to make ukraine an attractive destination for foreign direct investment. and eventually, honourable members, it will pave the way for ukraine’s future inside the european union. slava ukraini. long live europe.
for the ppe group president. - the next item is the report (a4-0310/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0410/97). the country will observe two minutes of silence in memory of the dead of the second world war and all those who have died since then in operations and peacekeeping missions around the world. and on a day like today it therefore feels a little strange to be in this debate - the title says it all - talking about the economic consequences of the war here in europe. it is war again on our continent and the consequences here in the eu are of course absolutely not in line with what is happening in ukraine. and of course our main focus is and should remain not on the economic consequences here but on the consequences in ukraine and how to help them against putin's barbaric war. and that is why i am very grateful to the commission that they will announce their sixth sanctions package today, and for the words that the commission has spoken about the reconstruction and the help to ukraine. but that being said, we should also talk about the socioeconomic consequences here and our capacity to act, because as a european union, unity is our strongest weapon against this war. and if we want to sustain this unity, we also need to address the consequences here. for the epp, we badly need an analysis of the cumulative effects of the war: the rising energy prices, the shortages in raw materials, new legislation on the table, the impact that has on companies and on citizens within the eu. we need to address the consequences also on families, some of them not even turning on their heating because they can no longer do so. and this is why, of course, we are working to address these consequences in the fund that is proposed. and finally, we need to work to address the consequences on companies and on industries. and for the epp, that means a diversification strategy for raw materials, i think, which is badly needed. the necessary investment for the roll-out of renewable energy. and finally, let's be very honest, we are asking a lot from our industries, and don't get me wrong: the epp wants to achieve the objectives of the fit for 55 package and the climate law, but we may have to look at a legislative embargo for new legislation to make sure that we are not burdening certain industries that are suffering badly with the cumulative effect of higher prices, the ambitious fit for 55 package. and, for example, let me mention one piece of legislation new reach, at the same time. let's be honest: we stand ready to work with you, but let's do it in a smart way.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, let us not be too euphemistic, ladies and gentlemen: we are at war. the european union supports ukraine as a country under attack by all means in our power: sanctions, arms, aid to refugees and diplomacy. without the courage of the ukrainian people and without the support of the european union and our allies, ukraine would not have been able to resist putin's criminal aggression and thwart his plans for rapid conquest. now a decisive battle is being fought in the dombas and we must move forward. the next step must be the cutting of gas and oil, as the president of the commission has announced to us today, in line with what this parliament has already proposed, and we must therefore welcome this. in parallel, we must work towards a decoupling strategy that includes the construction of regasification plants and internal interconnections, joint negotiation with alternative suppliers and an urgent acceleration of renewable energies. in this respect, i am totally against what the representative of the european people's party has said: i believe that now more than ever, we need to make progress in promoting policies to combat climate change, because they have brought to light the very shortcomings we have as the european union. sinking putin does not mean abandoning to their fate those countries most affected by their high dependence on russian gas and oil (we are aware that there are countries much more affected by these decisions). to defeat putin means to resist, to strengthen our resolve and to react collectively at a crucial moment in the history of europe, without ignoring the asymmetrical effects of this crisis, trying to understand that it is necessary, therefore, to apply the principle of solidarity to all the measures we take. to sink putin also means to put an end to a european union of first and second class citizens, to bring romania and bulgaria into the schengen area and to protect our values. i have had the opportunity to see firsthand what a country like romania is doing, putting into practice the fundamental principle of the european union, solidarity, in managing borders and supporting refugees. it is not possible that we are thanking them for their management and at the same time are not able to understand that they have the same right as other countries, when they meet all the criteria, to be part of the schengen area. this is another point which we should raise and which is above all a matter of concern to the council. our citizens are aware of the drama they are living through and it is now up to the european commission to rise to the occasion in the face of the financial challenge posed by all these measures. today we need a great economic plan that will stop the increase in poverty, inequality, unemployment and the loss of purchasing power as a result of the rampant inflation caused by the increase in the price of fuel and food. it is intolerable that, while the big energy multinationals are reaping extraordinary profits from the profits that have fallen from the sky, it is the most vulnerable who are paying the consequences of this war. that money in some people's pockets is at the expense of the suffering of families who today cannot pay the electricity bill and they see it and they want to make it to the end of the month and be able to pay all the bills. we must therefore act in that direction. instead of repeating the mistakes of the past and cutting back in the midst of a crisis, we must extend the escape clause of the stability and growth pact to invest in new technologies, social justice, stronger defence and a carbon-free future. if the european union is to maintain international leadership in the face of a growing bloc of autocracies, we will have to step up support for the most vulnerable populations who are suffering the consequences of putin's barbarism, both in africa and in our nearest neighbourhood. the future of moldova as an independent state and its desire to be part of the free world must rely on our financial and military commitment, not just on good words. once again in our history we are faced with the historic imperative to restore peace in europe and to build it beyond the borders of our union. but we cannot accept a peace without justice, because it is always the humiliated and the offended, as dostoevsky reminded us, who deserve relief from their suffering, who deserve justice. the only way to achieve a dignified peace is the defeat of putin and the victory of freedom and democracy in ukraine, which requires our unity and our sacrifice. we resisted in 2012 to protect the euro, we resisted in 2020 to stop the pandemic and we will resist in 2022 to preserve peace and democracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, madame le ministre, commission president, we’ve condemned the horrible and unjustified invasion of ukraine by the russian military forces many times before, and the european union was highly united in its response. severe actions were implemented, and just last plenary, this parliament demanded an embargo on all russian fossil fuels, including gas. however, these sanctions will not only harm the russian economy, they will also affect the lives of european citizens, with a direct impact on their homes, their jobs and their wallets. this could lead to more social inequality, a rise in unemployment and an increase in energy poverty. we need to protect our citizens, specifically those at risk of falling into poverty – people who are afraid of not being able to heat their homes next winter. we need a strong social response to their fears. the eu has the choice to leave no one behind, to mitigate the rise in energy costs, to ensure decent and affordable housing for all. the eu has the choice to protect workers on the labour market against unemployment. the eu has the choice to ensure that climate transition is a fair transition where industry pays its fair share. we need minimum wages, minimum income protection for all and a european unemployment scheme. colleagues, we have the possibility to protect our citizens against the hardships of war, and now is the time to act.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, minister and madam president of the commission, i listened very carefully to your speech and i think that this exchange of ideas is very useful and important in order to find immediate and rapid solutions to the evolution of the conflict. there is no doubt that the road to be followed is a road that must be pursued with determination in relation to the attitude towards russia, not only of condemnation but also of concrete action, so the sanctions package is certainly the decisive element on which to work to achieve results, but the sanctions package is also a fundamental premise with regard to the reactions and choices that must be made in europe. we know that they are not very popular on our continent and that in some countries they are likely to create major problems and it is clear that they require important responses, so certainly the long-term objective of reconstruction in ukraine is fundamental and it is good that the commission is dealing with it, but today we also have to deal with objective situations. the first: european exports fell by 6% between february and march. a strong response is needed to this end. the compensation fund - we have an example, the brexit model used in that direction - can be a solution because sanctions do not operate in all countries in the same way, some countries suffer more from the consequences than others. question number two: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. is it possible that we are not changing anything from what we imagined before the war? is the war not an event which should make us reflect on the need to change the approach adopted by the commission and the european institutions? i think it is, and therefore the timing of implementation, the overly ambitious targets, which are present in the "fit for 55" are a decisive element on which to start a reflection to change these choices. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to help the countries of central and eastern europe to meet the challenges of the present economic crisis. a debate which is being postponed, but which should be fundamental to accompany the measures which must be taken. and that is the subject which we also raised yesterday in the debate with the president of the italian council of ministers, mr draghi. article 21 of the rfg provides very clearly that in exceptional cases these instruments, which have very important resources, may be modified in relation to current needs. if the commission before the war had an article in its rules of procedure which stated that national plans had to be amended to adapt them to new requirements, i think that this is the occasion to take note of this and to change the choices in this direction so that appropriate solutions can be envisaged in this respect. i'll close with a final reference. we must avoid distinguishing, if we are to be effective in sanctions, between two fundamental elements: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the common system of gas prices for the period from 1 january to 31 december 1993. we need a united response to this. the differences are not helpful and risk undermining the overall strategy we are pursuing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. in train stations across europe, countless volunteers are welcoming millions of refugees from ukraine - people seeking protection, but also housing, income, jobs, millions of people fleeing a brutal war and the destruction of their homeland. millions of tonnes of grain are currently blocked in ukraine. the crop is in danger. there's a supermarket around the corner from where i live that's been out of sunflower oil for weeks. the price of butter has risen by 44% in the last year, and the price of vegetables by up to 30%. food prices in the eu are off the charts. because of the war and the disruption of supply chains, the united nations expects a global food and hunger crisis. the war comes at a time when energy prices have already gone through the roof before the russian invasion of ukraine and 36 million people in the eu in 2020 - these are your figures, mrs von der leyen - could not be adequately heated. war, increased demand after the pandemic, speculation in the electricity markets and the wrong design of the energy market in the eu are contributing to this energy price cost explosion. all of this fuels inflation. rent costs are rising, food prices are rising, energy prices are rising, inflation is eating away at wages and pensions. that is why we now need a europe-wide energy price cap so that energy poverty can be effectively tackled and not become more and more out of control. we need a european effort now to protect the lowest-income european households from inflation, energy poverty and hunger. and that requires a crisis profit tax, levied on the additional profits of the energy companies, the defense companies - the share price of rheinmetall has risen by 120% since march - and also the pandemic winners, the pharmaceutical companies and the big tech companies. amazon and google have been known to do stupid and stupid things during the pandemic. these would be effective first steps towards alleviating the gravest social distress. and we would release funds that would help in meaningful economic production in agriculture and in the integration of the war refugees. it is right to work on independence from russian gas and oil. but i think that billions and billions of dollars in the defence sector is the wrong way to go, and that money must go to the socially just energy transition, which will get us out of dependence on fossil fuels as soon as possible. and that's not just for russian gas and oil, but for gas and oil, wherever it comes from. and some of the sanctions imposed are unfortunately inadequate in their present form: the houses, yachts and cars of the oligarchs are virtually frozen, which means that they must be preserved in the same condition as they are found. and at the moment, european taxpayers are paying for the maintenance of the frozen oligarchic assets. i think that's ridiculous. the property must be expropriated and put to other uses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. this place is in desperate need of repair, madame von der leyen!
mr president, president von der leyen, dear colleagues, we have all seen that russia is a threat to the security of the european union and will remain a threat to us for the foreseeable future. this is why we can only live in safety and stability within the borders of the european union if we are surrounded in our immediate neighbourhood by countries that are safe and stable. helping ukraine clearly also means helping ourselves. this is why the line needs to be to continue supporting ukraine and sanctioning the russian federation. president von der leyen, we welcome the new package of sanctions which you presented to us and are putting forward. we as a parliament have demanded an immediate ban on imports of russian oil, gas, coal and nuclear fuel. this is why, as the commission will be implementing the ban on russian oil, it has to be implemented and it has to take effect as soon as possible, and in a way in which it does not allow for any loopholes or special treatment for member states or for companies. this would endanger the unity of the european union. keeping our unity while we implement this ban will be important, firstly. secondly, as we reduce our dependency on russian fossil fuels, we should not create dependency on any other single route of transport, single source of energy or oil supplying country. we are seeing that any vulnerability, any weakness, has costs in times of crisis. what should we do within the european union? the title of the debate is social and economic consequences for the european union. firstly, we should use the existing tools we have to strengthen our economy. there is still money available in the recovery and resilience facility, because some member states have not accessed all of the loans component. we need to work with member states to see if they need the money, if they will access it, and if not, the position of our group, the epp, is to try to use those sums for large energy projects, transnational energy projects, to interconnect, to bring energy to where it is needed within the european union. if an amendment of the rrf regulation is needed for this, we should do it. next point: use the decommitted amounts from the 2014-2020 budget to allow member states to spend the money where they need it, particularly in helping refugees and host communities within the borders of the eu. one last idea, which helps ukraine and helps the european union, is to work towards integrating ukraine and the republic of moldova into the eu single market as soon as circumstances allows. this will help ukraine to develop by itself, with the costs being more controllable for us.
mr president, colleagues. the title of the debate is ‘the social and economic consequences for the eu of the russian war in ukraine’ – and, of course, the consequences in ukraine are huge. but i think we should also be clear that the war in ukraine plunges us also into a new social economic crisis, and with skyrocketing energy prices, with deep—diving purchasing power and increasing inflation, i fear that the most vulnerable will bear the burden. and the question should be then, i think, what route are we going to take? it’s our duty that the stronger shoulders bear the heaviest burden while standing up against putin and standing in solidarity with the ukraine. in this crisis, we need to address the root causes of long—term economic and social imbalances. i think it’s time to break the vicious circle of raging inequalities and privilege for the super rich. there are many things to fix, and those who are increasing their profits exponentially and indecently are the ones to pay the price first. therefore we need more than just an extension of the escape clause. we need a european solution. we need money to accommodate refugees from ukraine. we need support for the citizens and small businesses for rising energy prices. madam minister, i think we should not talk about energy poverty any more. we are talking about actual poverty, people who cannot pay their bills anymore. therefore my proposal is to organise a social summit with the social partners to tackle the challenges of increasing inflation, increasing inequalities and its social consequences, especially on living conditions and wages. we need to update the action plan of the social pillar. we need european action.
mr president, let me first welcome president von der leyen’s announcement on the ban for russian oil to be included in the new sanctions package. the support of ukraine needs to go hand—in—hand also in supporting our citizens most affected from the consequences of war. we are at the doors of possibly the third, once in a lifetime, deep crisis that generations of europeans will suffer. the cumulative crises have led to devastating social consequences in our continent. 96 million people in the eu are already at risk of poverty. increased inequalities, the return of war in europe and the existential threat of climate change is a scary prospect. and once again, history knocks at the doors of the european project. during the pandemic, the eu learned how to respond to difficult economic and social situations after the disastrous years of austeritarian lunacy. now, we need to show that this willingness to protect our citizens will be the norm and not the exception. price inflation in the eu has reached levels not seen since the 70s, but half, we know, is directly due to fossil energy price rises. and it is why we need action on the energy sector. it is not time, in our opinion, to restrict our accommodative monetary policy, which would have disastrous economic consequences, but to accelerate our energy transition. i is not time either, i am sorry to say, to postpone our green new deal. i mean, climate change does not wait. we know that our green deal and energy transition is the best solution to the crisis that we are having, so i more than disagree with what the epp has said this morning today in the plenary. we know that we need to accelerate that energy transition and, for that, we will probably need also no financial instruments to be put in place. that is why we want also to call for a new energy sovereignty facility to facilitate member states to accelerate that transition. we know that politically this is difficult. putting in place your effort was a difficult process, but we need to be ambitious and i am sure that we will be able to do that again.
mr president, first of all, yesterday morning, i checked the statistic of how much you have paid to russia for gas, oil and coal. in the first two months after the war, the biggest buyer and payer for russia is, of course, germany. the second one is italy, the third one is turkey, and the fourth one is the netherlands. if i compared the prices that we paid – i mean we as europeans – to russia for gas and oil, it was three times higher an amount of money than it was at exactly the same time last year. and of course the germans and others who are buying gas from russia are saying that it’s the market price. but the problem that we have now is that we, as europeans, are paying three times more money to russia. we are saying that ‘well it’s the market price’, but it’s not true. the russians are saying ‘ you have to pay this sort of money for gas’, otherwise they will not sell it. we are not the smartest ones and we are paying this money. this means that every day we are paying hundreds of millions of euros to russia to have the energy resources and they are using this money for the military and for the war machine against ukraine, maybe tomorrow against moldova, and maybe in few days against the baltic states or finland. so what is my point? we now have a situation and the summer is coming so it’s a good time. but in september, october and november, when the winter is coming, we will again be in a situation where we are paying many, many times more money for the resources, the energy, from russia to have a warm house, to have functioning technology, and to have functioning businesses. that’s why today the germans and austrians and also the hungarians –i have to say, unfortunately – are saying that they can’t stop importing energy from russia now. but we now have to think now how to survive next winter because otherwise we’ll be screwed and will still be paying more and more money – three times more than last year – to russia. and this money will be used for their new occupations and their new expansions, and that’s the fault of the european energy policy. we have to learn from our mistakes, what we have done, and look for the next winter.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. it's not that we don't appreciate the work of the agency. no, it's about some allegations of illegal, negligent actions that need to be resolved urgently. but that doesn't mean we don't need frontex more than ever. we acknowledge the improvement of internal communication structures. we welcome the intensive cooperation with the european parliament. we are aware of the agency's contribution to the effective protection of europe's external borders. and we welcome the flexibility of the agency now in the ukraine conflict, in other words to help the member states to ensure that the flight of people can be as orderly and humane as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not blocked.
madam president, commissioner hahn, president lehne, thank you for your clarifications. as the person responsible for joint undertakings, i would like to underline the importance of this public—private partnership in implementing specific aspects of european union policy by engaging strategic industry partners across borders and business sectors and consolidating european research. today, we have seen more than ever how important are the joint undertakings when we speak about health, clean energy and economic recovery. the covid—19 pandemic of course had a deep impact on our social and professional lives, and unfortunately these effects were felt by the ju’s employees as well. i therefore ask the joint undertakings to take these aspects into account and go further by being more concerned with the well-being of every employee and ensure a balanced working environment. it is also time to take a step forward and to inform potential beneficiaries in a transparent manner about the joint undertakings’ intention.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank olivier chastel and the other shadow rapporteurs for the very fair and very good way in which they have cooperated in the context of the commission's discharge. the point which concerns me most in the commission's discharge - and i intend to change the focus this year - is the issue of public procurement, single bidders, manipulation of public procurement and the reliability of national authorities. we are seeing considerable deficits in certain countries. and i would point out to the commission here - mr eickhout has just raised the issue of the rule of law, which plays a very important role in hungary in relation to the rule of law - that this manipulation of the procurement procedures leads to oligarchisation, to exploitation by organised criminals and the like. but i would also like to express my sincere thanks to all the members of the court of auditors, mr president, and to mr tony murphy, who is also present. i would like to thank you very much for your excellent cooperation and for the fact that you have answered our sometimes very difficult questions with great patience and very broadly. the budgetary relief is based on a legal basis. we follow the law. that means budget relief is not about personal opinion or activism. it's important to me. i thank you for your work and look forward to further cooperation.
madam president, commissioner, minister, president of the court of auditors, i am going to speak of principles, because in one minute you cannot talk about 53 discharges of management. that's why i'm making the first proposal. i think we need to allocate more time. we need to have debates, views from more colleagues in the european parliament. so, here's what i propose to do. first, the court of auditors. last year i suggested to you, mr president, that you not only think about whether the money was spent correctly, but also about efficiency, and perhaps in the future you will put an efficiency indicator on how the money is spent in all the institutions, because you see in the member states we emphasise that european funds should bring a benefit, not just be spent correctly. secondly, the frontex problem must be solved, because he has resigned, but that does not mean that the problems are solved. and thirdly, the european commission, in my view, and the council are important institutions, as is the court of auditors, and we have to fight for credibility. if these controlling institutions are not credible, they will not be listened to by anyone. (the rapporteur has agreed to respond to a 'blue card' intervention)
response to the 'blue card' intervention. madam president, mr president, thank you for your question, i would propose that we have the debates on discharges separately: the agencies, the companies, we allocate a time, then the council, the commission and the court of auditors, because they are institutions that in turn control the agencies, and we have for each type of agency at which we discuss discharges a time of two hours as we now have a total of two hours.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the culture committee has delivered opinions on the discharge to the commission's budget for the education and culture dg and the translation centre for the eu institutions, certifying both bodies as correctly using the budget, while also indicating details for optimisation. i am grateful for the work of the directorate-general and the translation centre. given the pandemic, this was anything but normal, and it wasn't always easy. and the education and cultural sectors still face enormous challenges. but they all work together in a very disciplined and efficient way. i would like to see this praise not left unmentioned here, despite all the criticism. the commission's internet presence is increasingly being used to try to get closer to citizens, to provide explanations of proposals, to prepare action weeks and to offer short videos. that's good, but it clearly dominates english. the local people are not necessarily interested in this. i believe that there is a clear need for improvement in the area of linguistic diversity. if we want to shape public space here and if we want people to shape it, then we have to pick them up in their own languages.
president of the court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that was a very important and interesting debate. i share ms penkova's view that 2020 has been an extraordinarily difficult year for all institutions, but that the institutions have managed to cope with it on the whole, compared to the difficulties they have faced. mrs von cramon taubadel has pointed out the problems in the area of rals: i also mentioned this in my first comment here, that it is indeed regrettable that things have not improved. they will pay particular attention to this, especially in view of the fact that there are now even newer financing possibilities. and we also share the view that the final beneficiary, that is to say the person who ultimately really benefits from the granting of the respective european funds, should always be known and should also be given access to these names. mr kuhs, i expressly confirm my intention to cooperate closely with the committee on budgetary control. we want that, and we take it for granted that we are obliged to do so, but we also expect, of course, that the other side will cooperate with the members of the committee on budgetary control in the same spirit of trust. mr flanagan, thank you for the praise for the european court of auditors. i will take this and report back to my colleagues in luxembourg. mr lenaers, the fact is - and i am glad you pointed this out - that we have actually had the court of auditors' budget audited twice by the external auditor. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and both tests have been positive, both the original and the special test which was subsequently repeated. i don't think there's much more we can deliver for 2020. it is a matter of course that if the discharge had been granted in accordance with the legal provisions, it would now have to be granted. unless there's some other hidden reason why you don't want to do it. but the legal situation is perfectly clear when you look at the discharge procedure, the purpose of the discharge procedure. mrs winzig raised the subject of digitisation, which i had not mentioned in my speech this time, but it gives me the opportunity to mention it again. we believe that digitisation needs to increase enormously, simply to make our auditing easier and to create additional transparency. and i repeat my request that the commission, in cooperation with the two legislative chambers, should take serious steps to include in the financial regulation a specific provision that anyone using eu funds - be it an administration or private institutions - must provide data that is compatible and thus also accessible to digital verification. of course, this will take some time. to achieve this goal, you have to start at some point. mrs hohlmeier, thank you very much for your kind words about our cooperation. and mrs grapini has indicated that efficiency is crucial; that's why 50% of our activities, our resources, are devoted to performance reports that have exactly that purpose, which is to describe and represent cost-effectiveness and efficiency. and i am grateful that this is also supported by the committee on budgetary control. the last time i was at the conference of committee chairs, the result was that well over 100 proposals were made for performance reports that we can make. we cannot of course do all that because of our capacity, but we will try to take account as far as possible of the particular wishes expressed there.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am very conscious of addressing the largest group in this room, the audience, to give them a few figures on the european budget, because i think they are quite impressive figures. the first point is that less than 7% of the european budget is spent on what are known as overheads, that is to say, on the costs of running the institutions, paying salaries, etc. and this is true of all the european institutions. over 93% is used to finance specific projects, activities in the member states or in cooperation with several member states directly. it has been mentioned many times today that we have an error rate, an error rate, somewhere in the order of about 4 billion euros. it is right to speak of errors and not of fraud, because 99% of the error rate is actually error and not fraud. that's important too. and 75 percent of those mistakes are simply because, unfortunately, because of the complexity of our rules, there are different interpretations of whether something is eligible or not. and even in our discussions there are often differences of opinion between the court of auditors, the commission and the member states as to what is actually eligible. so if we can simplify this, which is essentially ceterum censeo, then we will also be able to reduce the error rate considerably. this includes - and i agree with you, mr president lehne - interoperability. if we create the necessary transparency and clarity in the process of digitisation as to who the final beneficiaries are, then i believe we will also create an additional element in order to reduce the error rate accordingly and to eliminate misunderstandings in the first place. so, you have us here by your side; we've always wanted this. this is also a matter for parliament. we have to convince some of our member states here, but this is also very closely linked to the quality of public administration in terms of digitisation in some member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. just for the record, we have about 1,000 indicators at the moment, and i know many of them are absolutely important. but when it comes to driving sensibly, i believe less is more. so when we talk about new indicators, we should also consider whether some of those that exist now may be obsolete, out of date or no longer necessary. so one in one out here, too. ideally even more out than in, so that we have really fundamental information that actually helps us to better design our budget. but thank you again for the constructive discussions in advance. but i think we should focus together on how we can use smart measures to optimise the use of our budget and ensure that the money actually goes where it should go, from the people, but also from the projects.
president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this exchange of views. we share many concerns and the desire to have a detailed and accurate picture of the management of european funds. we have a common interest in all parties working together, in a constructive way, towards sound financial management in the interests of the european citizen. it is very important to show our determination and to urge all actors to assume their responsibilities fully and to exercise their supervisory role carefully according to their competences. further progress is to be made in the coming years. ladies and gentlemen, i really thank you for this exchange and i am sure that your vote will move things forward for the common good of the citizens of europe.
rapporteur. – madam president, first on the agencies and on frontex. i would just like to bring this to a conclusion. what we do know is that there were several administrative mishandlings, and i am confident that we will sort things out with the new frontex leadership, which now has to be installed as soon as possible. in the meantime, the commission has to make sure that the interim leadership will be solid and capable of continuing the important work and of bringing the needed information to this discharge authority so that we are able to fulfil our duties. with the second draft report in the fall, we will be bringing this case to a close as far as frontex is concerned. now, the european court of auditors. i already said in my first speech today, but i will say it more clearly and in a simple way: the discharge procedure has to take place within the same rules and regulations that the european court of auditors has to follow. it cannot be an outlaw exercise. whereas the court has followed all rules and regulations, and it has been forthcoming to the parliament in its requests for all necessary, but not just necessary information, because this is the key word. if the court gives us the information that, according to the rules and regulations, they should give us, then – and as this has been the case – i wish the members of this parliament the wisdom to treat this extremely valuable body in the union fairly and grant it discharge in the vote later today. most importantly, as i said, if we take ourselves down into the gutter and we do it in the way that we go after personal trips, etc., then we are doing harm to ourselves as the european parliament.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to express once again my deep gratitude to the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, monika hohlmeier, and to the dear shadow rapporteurs on the discharge for the european union institutions, to all my dear colleagues, and also to the commissioner and the dear president of the european court of auditors for their important contribution. we can often, within the framework of our own control and criticism, be harshly critical of everything. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. there have been significant improvements in the control of agencies, in the control of funds, in the increase of transparency, in the creation of conditions for good administration, and the contribution of the committee on budgetary control has been catalytic. i must emphasize that in the committee on budgetary control all our colleagues, without exception, have one single objective, whether we agree or disagree many times, and that objective is to protect the taxpayers' money. the european institutions are the vanguard of the european union. if the european institutions have positive results, the whole european union has positive results, and these results are enjoyed by the european citizen. the european agencies are made up of 8,000 highly qualified, highly competent staff, who are at the forefront and who must be made aware of the enormous responsibility they have to manage the funds and the management of these agencies. these bodies must be models of strict control, good governance, transparency and meritocracy. we must send the message to the citizens that the european union is leading the way in this area. i am glad that the commissioner has taken a positive approach to the issue of gender equality, but it must be implemented here and now. i really thank everyone for the positive contribution to the clearance of the agencies, and i believe that together we can achieve even more for the benefit of european citizens and european agencies.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. mr president of the court! there is one factor that cannot be used as a pretext to soften our assessment, but it is a fact: 2020 is a pandemic and this could and did obviously influence, at least in terms of joint undertakings (for most of them i am the rapporteur), also the fact that there were some shortcomings. we should have a discounted rate here. we shouldn't extend it for years to come, but let's be honest here. question no 2 i am surprised, to be honest, that in the context of the nine-week (more than two-month) war in ukraine we do not want to discharge frontex. this is the agency that deals with the external borders of the european union. i think she should focus in the coming weeks on these very challenges of war, not on fighting to convince us that she should be given a discharge. the next issue is the discharge for the european commission. it's a very politicized issue, i must say. it's not a custom that we've had before. these were very substantive assessments in terms of monitoring of union funds. if the question of making eu funds dependent on the assessment of the rule of law is raised, it is a very political one. i don't think it's the right move, it's not the right thing. you have to say it out loud. i also want to thank all those who worked on my reports, including the administration of our committee.
(the sitting resumed at 13.33) president. – i understand that mr bardella has a point of order to make. can you tell me under which rule you stand?
mr bardella, i will look into it.
madam president, i would like to take a minute of this plenary session of parliament to send a message from thousands and millions of voices of europeans to the women of the united states that we are with them, that we cannot take a step back. (applause) not a step from you. (applause) we need to guarantee our rights and we are with all women in the world, with our eyes, our body, our choices.
thank you ms garcía pérez. mr madison, you have a point of order?
mr. president, i have to go. i speak estonian. i understand that last year, all symbols, posters and advertisements were banned from this parliament. they banned flags on tables. several members of parliament were fined for this in the form of loss of daily allowances. i would therefore like to draw your attention, mr president, to the fact that several members of parliament waved banners which are against the rules of procedure. that's why i'm asking you to investigate and punish according to our rules, because we're all equal here, whether you're left, communist or right-wing. thank you!
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, first of all, i absolutely agree with everybody who is saying that there has to be responsibility for all the war crimes. there is responsibility also for the political leaders, but to take them to court or take them to really pay for the war crimes, first you have to win the war because without the winning of the war, there would be no responsibility, and to win the war, you just have to give so many weapons as much as possible to ukraine. i have to remind you that in the last three months, from 24 february, the eu has paid eur 50 billion for energy from russia. at the same time, we have provided – for a few billion euros – arms and military technique to ukraine. so it’s not very well balanced, but of course i fully understand it’s difficult for germany, difficult for hungary. we have to deal with this. but at the same time, if we pay eur 50 billion to russia, we have to pay as much as possible to ukraine, especially for weapons. second thing, everybody is shocked about the war crimes – how it’s possible in 21st century. the problem is that russia hasn’t changed. it’s basically the same country. the problem is that in 1945, they did exactly the same war crimes. they raped the same way, they killed in the same way like today, because they didn’t have to pay for the war crimes, because at that time, of course, the common enemy was nazi germany. the us, the uk and france were together allies with the soviet union and they were the winners. today i’m most afraid that we are doing the same mistake because, for the last sentence, when i heard last week that emmanuel macron proposed to mr zelenskyy that we need peace and we have to save the face of vladimir putin, i was really shocked. and of course, macron says, ‘no, it’s false’, but in this case, i believe zelenskyy more than macron. there will be no saving the face of the aggressor and dictator. we have to .... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman of the board! yesterday, in kiev, the trial of a russian soldier who killed civilians in ukraine began. that is how all war criminals must be brought to justice, not only those who have killed and killed, raped and rape in ukraine, but also those who started the aggression and sit today behind the protective walls of the kremlin. i'm sick of hearing the debate about how to help putin and save russia's face, how to discuss post-war european security with putin. no, you won't! they are criminals who must be brought to justice in the same way that a murderous russian soldier was brought to justice in kiev. putin and his co-defendants deserve their nuremberg, because only then will there be peace and stability in ukraine, because only then will we have time to learn from our mistakes, because only then can i be sure that in this room we will not have to say 'we told you so!' and most importantly 'we owe it to the ukrainians.' glory to ukraine!
mr president, the implications of the russian aggression against ukraine for european security are really profound, and that is very well understood by our people, as best reflected by the finnish and swedish governments’ decision to apply for nato membership now, but also by the danish people’s decision at the referendum to lift their opt-out on eu defence. so our people really believe that we need more collective security. the second implication is that the large-scale conventional war has made a very forceful return to the european continent and we need to prepare for that, because clearly we weren’t sufficiently prepared when this aggression was launched. neither when it comes to defending our own countries against such a threat and nor when it comes to delivering assistance to our partners. even, let’s be honest, our very good strategic compass deals more with the evacuation from afghanistan than it deals with scenarios such as the conflict we are seeing right now. and finally, we must be honest. putin’s russia is ready to take much more pain as a price for its adventurous effort of restoring an empire than we previously thought. so we need a much more concerted and sustained effort to make sure that we are able to weaken russia’s economy and military machine.
madam president, executive vice-president, colleagues, we cannot choose our geopolitical neighbours, but we can choose how to build our relations with them. the eastern partnership area is our closest neighbourhood and therefore what happens there has a direct impact on our security and safety. this was reiterated by the strategic compass, which dedicated adequate focus to the eastern partnership countries. today, at a time of the worst crisis in europe since the second world war, the aggression of russia against ukraine, we have to be very clear with our messages. we are committed to supporting the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of eastern partnership countries. we will support ukraine until putin’s criminal regime is defeated and perpetrators of war crimes are brought to justice. we will continue promoting peace, stability, resilience and security in the eastern neighbourhood. we will rebuild peace and security in europe. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who worked on this report and urge everybody to vote for it.
madam president, i consider the eastern partnership, at this moment, but not only at this moment, to be a key area for our security. it is important that we support these countries, which are facing enormous challenges. these challenges can be summed up in five clear points: the danger of frozen conflicts, of course, the russian aggression in those regions, the threat of poverty, the threat of climate change and the rise of nationalism. i am convinced that the countries that belong to the eastern partnership deserve our full support. we need to support development projects in those countries. the european community is a great partner for the countries of central and eastern europe, and we are all very proud of the fact that the european union has been able to play a leading role in the development of the region.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the russian aggression has created a new reality for the eastern partnership. we are convinced that a regional framework remains valid and is an essential tool for projecting the eu’s values and interests in the eastern neighbourhood. it is also a tool that helps to deepen our relations with the eastern partners to the benefit of citizens both in the eu and in the eastern partnership countries. a safe, peaceful and prosperous europe is a goal that we share with our eastern partners. we focus today on security and defence policy aspects, but also the resilience—focused framework, endorsed at the eastern partnership summit in december 2021, is even more relevant in the current context. the priorities for cooperation include reforms in the areas of the rule of law, green connectivity, digital and people—to—people contacts, with fundamental values taking a central role in our policy. let me thank you for your report. i reaffirm our determination to continue our cooperation with the eastern partnership countries along those lines.
in writing. relations and cooperation with our partners in the neighbouring eastern region are rightly a policy priority for the union, as is the strengthening of the union in the field of security and defence policy. the impact of russia's aggression against ukraine on both priorities can hardly be overestimated. the relevance of the common security and defence policy to the eastern partnership countries has increased enormously since february. with his mad war against ukraine, putin has contributed, both effectively and unwillingly, to the fact that european policymakers have made and are making rapid decisions and that adequate resources have been made and are being made available, of course for the benefit of the union and its member states themselves, but also for the benefit of ukraine and other partners in the eastern region. we must continue to work towards this and not wait for the next crisis to bring us back to the point of being powerless and dependent on third parties. in any case, it is clear that nato continues to play a key role in the union's security needs and that enhanced cooperation between the eu and nato also makes a world of difference in the security dimension of our relations with key eastern partners.
i think it is particularly important, mr president, that this european parliament has sent strong messages through its report against turkey for its human rights violations, but even more so for its continuing and perpetual violation of international and european law. but what i want to focus on is that at this moment the turkish invader, attila in cyprus, erdogan together with the occupation regime, continue their provocations, criminal actions and violations against my own city, the city of famagusta. it is trying to seize our homes, our properties, our beaches, our hotels and unhindered continues this barbaric pirate role in the eastern mediterranean. the city of famagusta is not just any city - it is our city, it is the european city, it is the city that belongs to the european union and at this moment this city is practically under the constant threat of the turkish invader. the european union must finally demand here and now that this city be returned to its legal residents, the greek cypriots, who are the only ones entitled to live and enjoy their property in the city of famagusta, our european city.
madam president, i have supported this report after some consideration. finally, i must confess, i do not see turkey's full status in the european union. i see a whole series of problems that turkey has with respect for human rights, with the level of the rule of law. i could calculate other negative interventions here, for example, the interventions of the turkish government in monetary policy, but despite all these problems, i think it is important to show the turkish people and the citizens of this country that we stand with them, that we want to defend their rights as well, that we want to have a dialogue with their government, whatever it is. and we should also prepare for a time when mr erdogan is no longer in power, for a more intensive dialogue with this country. she's part of our close alliance, that's for sure. but i don't think there should be a meaningful debate about the full membership status.
madam president, i would like to say that i support this draft report. it is good to appreciate the efforts of the committee on regional development in this area, the remote regions, because they must not feel abandoned, even in the current geopolitical conflicts. we are constantly being sliced open in terms of quality of life, in terms of economic development, between continental europe and our remote regions. i think it is important to focus on this issue, which is why i supported this report. we have to support the development in these countries, of course also their economic transition, the modernization, which is very slow in these countries. and our interest is shown by the approval of this own-initiative report.
madam president, i also supported this report, although there was some debate in our group as to whether such a report was relevant to the deliberations, the decisions of this house. i am convinced that this is our competence, although there is clearly a competence of the member states to decide on this matter, i.e. the allocation of fishing quotas in our seas and oceans. i believe that the european parliament is right to point out in its own-initiative report the weaknesses which are found in the member states' activities. and here we fully support the idea that the allocation of these fishing quotas should be based on full transparency, predictability and also equality in the allocation of these quotas. i think that these are the criteria we can always subscribe to, and that is why i was also happy to support this report.
good morning dear colleagues, this morning we have the pleasure of welcoming taoiseach micheál martin, the irish prime minister. taoiseach, thank you for coming to address the european parliament as part of our ‘this is europe’ debates. this year is an important one for ireland in europe and an important one for europe with ireland. it marks 50 years since the irish people voted overwhelmingly in favour of joining what was then called the european economic community. and 50 years on, we are pleased that irish citizens’ support for the european project remains extremely high. the irish prime minister being here with us in plenary is also an expression of ireland’s commitment as europe faces difficult times with an illegal and unprovoked invasion of ukraine. over the years, the european single market has helped ireland’s economy become highly competitive. but ireland continues to give a lot back to europe too: economically, politically and socially. economically, ireland’s success story has allowed it to move from net recipient to net contributor to the eu budget. and politically, ireland plays a central role in shaping common policies, particularly on finance, on the environment and on providing vital aid to ukraine. and here i must commend ireland for being the first country in the european union to waive visa requirements for ukrainians and for welcoming nearly 30 000 displaced ukrainians who have sought shelter. we are all painfully aware that ireland is particularly affected by brexit. and good relations with the united kingdom remain in all our interests, especially in this new geopolitical context. on northern ireland, all the european union institutions are aligned. renegotiating the protocol on northern ireland is not an option. the european parliament has reiterated its unwavering support for the protocol on several occasions and we remain fully committed to preserving the peace on the island of ireland. last night this parliament officially took receipt of a gift from the irish government of a bust of former member of the european parliament and nobel peace prize laureate, john hume. his legacy is an inspiration with regard to conflict resolution and with regard to respecting differences. his work in brokering peace on the island of ireland and in hammering out the good friday agreement is highly respected and honoured in this house. this parliament is attached to multilingualism. and, with the irish language now a fully fledge officially eu language, let me say in irish go raibh maith agat.
taoiseach. – president metsola, vice-presidents, distinguished leaders of the political groups, members of parliament, citizens of europe, it’s an honour to be here today, and i thank you, president metsola, for your kind invitation to address this session. i would like to salute your leadership of the european parliament. before i reflect on ireland’s european past, it would be remiss of me not to pause to pay tribute to that great european, david sassoli, who graced the office of president of this parliament with such intelligence and dignity. through his life and in his work, he demonstrated integrity, compassion and a strong focus on the most vulnerable in society. he will be long remembered, especially here in this parliament, and he is sorely missed. ar dheis dé go raibh a anam uasal. by any measure, this is a critical moment in the history of europe and the union which we all share. we face a series of fundamental challenges. will the values of free democracies prevail in the face of military and other aggression? will we act together to protect hard-won progress in our societies? do we have the ambition and urgency required to achieve energy security and tackle an existential climate crisis? do we have the strength to overcome the many forces which seek to return us to the days of destructive rivalry and competition between the nations of europe? my message to you today is that we stand resolutely with all those who share the core values of peace, democracy and progress in europe, and we believe that protecting these values demands a strong european union. is léargas é ballraíocht na parlaiminte seo ar éagsúlacht na heorpa, ár dteangacha, ár gcultúir agus ár startha. ní mar a chéile aon dá náisiún, ach tagaimid le chéile agus, i gcóimheas, déanaimid bealach chun cinn a chíoradh, a phlé agus a leagan amach. cuirim fáilte mhór chaoin roimh an deireadh atá tagtha leis an maolú ar stádas na gaeilge san aontas eorpach ó thús na bliana seo. tá an ghaeilge anois ar chomhchéim le teangacha bhunaitheoirí eile an aontais eorpaigh. is dul chun cinn suntasach é agus treiseofar úsáid, pobal agus cnuasach na gaeilge mar thoradh ar an dul chun cinn sin. ireland’s nearly 50 years of membership of this union has been transformative. we have seen an overwhelmingly positive impact across all dimensions of our society. last month, we marked the 50th anniversary of the decision of the irish people to join what we now call the european union. for us, there is simply no doubt: this membership has been a historic enabler of sustained progress for ireland. the decision of the people of ireland to support membership was overwhelming, but it was not achieved easily. in the then six existing member states, questions were asked if ireland, then the poorest country in europe, was simply too peripheral, too poor to be able to survive in the european community. at home, a coalition of forces used the classic anti-europe tactics of claiming that we would be swamped by a neo-imperialist organisation and would lose our separate identity. however, an overwhelming majority rejected these arguments. the irish people instead chose the path of hope and solidarity, of cooperation and a shared future. time and time again, this decision has been vindicated. one of the inspiring things about that decision 50 years ago is the role which was played by leaders from our revolutionary generation, those who as young people had done so much to win our independence against tremendous odds. they did not see europe as a threat to our sovereignty, but as an enabler of our sovereignty. they rejected the idea of nationalism as a narrow and defensive concept; instead, they believed nationalism should be outward and forward-looking. and just as they did, we continue to be inspired by the ideas contained in our proclamation of independence from 1916, when the greatest of our leaders committed their country to the ideals of equality, diversity and cooperation with other nations. that is why the democratic majority of the irish people remain euro-positive and why we see the success of the european union as directly linked to the success of nation states. over the last 50 years, sharing our sovereignty with our european partners helped to make us all safer, stronger and more prosperous, and ireland has in turn been proud to contribute strongly to the shaping of today’s european union. in the intense debates and negotiations of the past two years, i and my government have been very clear: the union must be strengthened. in order to serve us all better and to respond to urgent challenges, it needs more ambition and resources. we have been and we remain supportive of a growing and diverse union based on shared values and shared prosperity. this has been a consistent theme during our presidencies of the council. during our 1990 presidency, we strongly supported european union recognition of german reunification. during our 2004 presidency, we worked to ease the arrival of 10 new member states to our union and hosted a ‘day of welcomes’ to underpin this. through enlargement, we have welcomed new communities and they have since made a wonderful contribution to the irish economy and society. and enlargement has been essential to strengthening our union as a whole. as we are seeing every day during the response to russia’s war against ukraine, member states that secured their freedom from soviet imperialism and totalitarianism are a powerful voice, reminding us that free democracy must be defended. i am strongly of the view that the prospect of membership can be a powerful driver of reform, and that membership itself is the most powerful tool we possess to enlarge the sphere of democracy, peace and security in our region. our treaties are clear that any european state which respects the values of the union and is committed to promoting them may apply to become a member of the union. it should be a source of pride and inspiration that the union continues to be a beacon of hope to people at our borders – to the people of the western balkans; to the people of ukraine; currently sacrificing and enduring so much in defence of our shared european values; to the people of moldova and of georgia. we should support those looking to join in undertaking the reforms and preparations necessary. and when they meet the criteria, we should not place further barriers in their way. i strongly support ukraine’s application for membership, and i look forward to the commission’s opinion. i hope that, when the european council meets in june, it will be possible to send the people of ukraine a clear and positive message. ireland’s lived experience – and we are not alone in this – is that european union membership is transformative. it is not only about access to markets and to economic opportunity, though that is, of course, important; it is about what it means to people. people who send their representatives to this parliament. people – young people especially – who benefit from the freedom to move throughout the union, to learn, to work, to experience life in another place and with another culture. people who gain confidence and strength from knowing that they live in a union of values, of laws, of democracy, in which human rights and human dignity are fundamental guarantees. that is our strength, and ireland is proud to be part of such a union. and no matter what its opponents say, let us never forget that the european union is the most successful initiative for peace in our continent’s history. in ireland, we feel this so deeply because of the union’s role in supporting our successful efforts to bring an end to campaigns of violence which lasted for three decades. when i arrived in strasbourg yesterday, i was privileged to join president metsola in a ceremony to honour the only person to serve as an mep who was also awarded the nobel peace prize. john hume was a political giant. a proud irish nationalist and democrat, he dedicated his life to the cause of serving his people and persuading the minority to abandon violence and join in democratic politics. john was passionate about his country’s future, and that is why he was also a passionate supporter of the european union. john had the vision to see the narrative of ireland’s path to peace in the wider narrative of peace in europe – a peace built on respect for political and cultural diversity cemented with economic interdependence. he overcame opposition from both extremes to chart a peaceful way forward for ireland. his integrity and bravery shone through. with another courageous politician, david trimble, he was awarded the nobel prize for an unwavering commitment to peace. he won every election he stood in and served in this parliament for 25 years. it is one of the many harsh realities of the brexit vote of 2016 that no serious consideration was given to the implications for northern ireland and the agreement which underpins peace and reconciliation. the good friday agreement provides a clear framework for protecting different identities and interests in northern ireland. it is a triumph for democratic politics and it has been a model for conflict resolution in many parts of the world. i can think of a no more solemn agreement than one which has ended a deadly conflict, has been democratically ratified and has been in operation for a quarter of a century. because of this, a very detailed deal was negotiated and adopted to limit the damage on northern ireland caused by brexit. central to achieving this generous deal was the unwavering support and solidarity of our partners in the european union, including the members of this parliament. i want to pay tribute to the european parliament, which was absolutely clear in its support for the good friday agreement and on the need to find a unique solution that would work for northern ireland. that solidarity mattered. that solidarity continues to matter. the unique solution was, of course, the protocol on ireland and northern ireland that is an integral part of the withdrawal agreement between the european union and the united kingdom. it is perfectly reasonable to look for ways to improve the operation of the protocol, but unfortunately what we have seen are bad—faith efforts to undermine a treaty freely entered into. instead of trying to create a constructive atmosphere for all to engage, we have actually seen efforts to block agreements or introduce new problems. in contrast, the european union has worked hard to find ways to ensure that where there is a negative impact on businesses and citizens in northern ireland, it is minimised as much as possible. vice-president of the commission maroš šefčovič and his team have done remarkable work in listening to businesses and communities throughout northern ireland. they have a deep and practical understanding of the operation of the protocol. last october, the commission proposed a package of measures that would result in a significant reduction in border-linked checks. this parliament has also been incredibly constructive. for example, in april, you overwhelmingly approved legislation to help safeguard the supply of medicines to northern ireland. i have said many times that there are solutions to practical problems under the protocol, if there is a political will to find them. but that requires partnership. it requires the united kingdom government to engage with good faith, seriousness and commitment. unilateral action to set aside a solemn agreement would be deeply damaging. it would mark a historic low point, signalling a disregard for essential principles of laws which are the foundation of international relations. and it would quite literally be to the benefit of absolutely no one. without a spirit of partnership, there would have been no peace process in northern ireland. without trust, without engagement, without a willingness to see things from the point of view of others, there would have been no good friday agreement, no quarter-century of peace in northern ireland in which young people have been able to grow and to flourish as themselves. all of us in positions of leadership owe it to them not to treat lightly what was so hard won. as we look across our continent, as we see what is at stake when the rule of international law is threatened, it falls to all of us to work together and to stand by what we have agreed. i am humbled and inspired by the extraordinary courage and resolve of the people of ukraine as they defend their country and their right to determine their own future. the conflict is, at its most fundamental, about two utterly incompatible views of the world: autocratic and democratic. the new imperialism of putin’s regime must not stand. ukraine’s cause must be the cause of every person who believes in free democracy. as the european council said once again last week, russia must end its slaughter and withdraw from the entire territory of ukraine. i know that the speaker of the ukrainian parliament, mr ruslan stefanchuk, is here in strasbourg today, and to him i say, ireland unequivocally supports your country, your people and your right to a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future. we strongly support the toughest possible sanctions, and we do so understanding that this involves costs for us all. we are honoured that more than 34 000 ukrainians have sought shelter in our country. how many times have we heard ideologues from the extremes condemn and attack the european union? yet today, for many millions of people on our borders, it is the flag of blue with a circle of golden stars which symbolises their wish to be free. in 2014, the people of ukraine took to the streets to demand a democratic and european future, and for this they suffered invasion and partition. we did too little to stand with the people of ukraine then. we did too little to reject putin’s new imperialism and his demand to control other countries in his sphere of influence. and this happened while he was constantly investing in extremist parties and disinformation in our countries, putting us all on notice that the destruction of the european union was a core policy objective for him. we must stand with ukraine not just during this war but in the months and years ahead. our agenda must be ukraine’s reconstruction, its securing of democracy, and its inclusion within our union. we must also support the democratic right of the belarusian people to new, free and fair elections. we must content condemn the detention of political prisoners such as sergei tikhanovsky, the husband of the inspiring leader, sviatlana tsikhanouskaya. as a country with our own experience of famine, we condemn the illegal appropriation of agricultural production in ukraine, which is having a direct impact on global food security and affordability, and is affecting the most vulnerable communities in parts of africa and in the middle east. it is hard to comprehend that hunger itself has been weaponised. ireland will support the european union in playing its part in an effective and swift international coordination to ensure a comprehensive global food security response. and just as we are now showing urgency concerning russian aggression, we also need to show more urgency on the other major challenges facing our union and our citizens. we must redouble efforts to accelerate the decarbonisation of our society, break our dependence on fossil fuels, and provide a more resilient, secure and sustainable energy system for future generations. there are many who continue to ignore or casually dismiss the scientific consensus about climate change. however, nobody can surely ignore the direct political and economic threat which dependence on fossil fuels poses. as far as ireland is concerned, we unequivocally accept that climate change is a critical threat and it must be a defining issue for us. an immediate and large-scale reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is crucial. unless we act now, terrible outcomes will be inevitable. we believe that europe must push forward with its initiatives, including the european green deal and the sustainable finance agenda. ireland is ready to play our part. we have enacted legislation to put a legally binding target of reducing emissions by 2030 to 51% below 2018 levels. in taking the necessary steps, we must bring our citizens with us and ensure a just transition for all. let us make sure that the regions which are most affected get a genuine opportunity to transition to a longer-term, more secure and more prosperous role in energy production. i remain confident that we can rise to this challenge. in this, i am inspired by how we came together in the face of the largest pandemic the world has experienced in a century. despite the unprecedented nature of covid-19, and after some initially hesitant steps, the european union quickly came together in an unprecedented way in support of its citizens, businesses and member countries, making it a role model for the world. we played a pivotal role in supporting vaccine development and procurement, becoming the leader internationally in the production and distribution of vaccines. through next generation eu, the member states and institutions came together in solidarity to address the economic impacts of the pandemic across our union, supporting not just our collective recovery, but the green and digital transitions we need to bring resilience to our economies and our societies. there are hundreds of thousands of people alive today because of how we worked together to understand, control and target this terrible virus. however, there is no question that we were not fully prepared for the pandemic, and we had to innovate new policies rapidly. our shared public health tracking and advice structures were not strong enough because we had not viewed this as a priority area. this is one of the many areas we should address as we look to reforming and strengthening the union. the european union is by no means perfect – it is a project that must continue to develop and evolve – and differences will arise between member states and between the institutions. however, it is our capacity to work together through these issues that makes the european union something to be immensely proud of. over the past two years, i have signalled at the council that ireland supports more ambition and urgency in developing the union. we have rejected the idea that every debate must be a zero-sum fight between countries. and that is why, even though we are a net contributor, we supported a larger budget for the union. the highly limited level of the budget means that the union is often over-focused on a limited range of current or desired powers, at the expense of a more active agenda of enabling activity. we believe that we need more investment in skills and research – the foundations for sustained prosperity for all our people. we have supported greater ambition on key reforms to fully address the policy gaps which caused so much damage during the financial crisis. we believe that the conference on the future of europe has begun an important dialogue on our shared future. the recommendations of the conference include some very worthwhile suggestions that can be implemented quite quickly, as well as some that are more ambitious and wide ranging. let’s focus on building a union which can directly enable action in critical areas, and by respecting important principles such as subsidiarity, we can have a more constructive debate. our guiding principle should be, ‘how can we best prepare our union to continue to meet the needs of its citizens into the future?’ ireland is ready for this debate. we will work to constructively shape our new future and are open to treaty change if this proves necessary. we should first, however, do what we can within the existing framework. we have in recent months and years started to face up to the reality of challenges to the core founding principles of our union – and this is not just an economic bloc. the treaties which we have all signed open up great opportunities for us all, but they also carry fundamental responsibilities. the union cannot work if its members refuse to follow the laws which apply to us all. and the union cannot have a purpose if we do not absolutely insist on protecting democratic and human rights in all of our countries. as john hume said, ‘the basis of peace and stability in any society has to be the fullest respect for the human rights of all its people’. for some time we have been going through what has been called a democratic recession in the world. there has been an attempt to push back against the idea that democracy and human rights are fundamental to sustained human progress. every day we are seeing the terrible human price paid when a country’s leadership stops debate, closes down political competition, controls the economy and ends the rule of law. so as we learn the lessons of this moment, let’s understand that if we want the values of a free, democratic and prosperous europe to survive and succeed, we have to speak up for these values – and we have to do so even when it’s uncomfortable. jean monnet famously said that ‘europe will be forged in crises and will be the sum of the solutions adopted for those crises’. he has repeatedly been proven right. however, he missed an important extra element. yes, we have constantly required a crisis in order to make major changes, but ultimately we are more and more seeing that if we want progress for europe, it must be forged by its commitment to values. we must protect and strengthen these values. if we do this, we will remain a beacon of hope to others, especially to our fellow europeans in ukraine. in our union, we are better together, we are stronger together, we achieve most and best when we work together. thank you very much indeed.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i say to the taoiseach: welcome to the european parliament. actually, when one looks at the history of your country, a history marred by war, occupation, famine, poverty, mass emigration, a global financial crisis which hit you like few other countries, one might expect a country of anger, bitterness, revenge. and we have none of that, none of that, i’m really struck every time. and you embody that, every time i meet the irish colleagues that we find at the same time, gravitas but also a sense of optimism towards the future and humility. there’s no grandstanding, it seems, in your country, you don’t need to grandstand to be great. and this is what i love so much about the contribution that your people are making to the european union. and being future-oriented, an optimist to me comes out of your speech as well. again, not with big words, but let’s take one: ‘sovereignty’. instead of looking at this concept, which means the ability to decide on your own, basically, instead of looking back towards the nation-state, you – and these are your words – said: ‘the european union is an enabler of sovereignty’. it makes us more sovereign, contrary to what some in this house are saying. what i like also – and this is a change from your predecessor and successor, who was also humble enough to recognise four years ago that ireland was a laggard when it comes to the climate transition. and it’s true, ireland was a laggard, but you embraced the new government, and indeed thanks to the participation of the greens. but your support, your personal support as taoiseach has embraced the green transition. now, i do see the great plans and the commitments. last year ireland’s emissions grew by 6%, so we are still not there. there are still massive efforts to be made. but you and i see that the future of europe’s prosperity lies in leading the transition rather than following, being laggards. we need to be leaders here if we want europe to be prosperous. a last point that i will make is to tell you that we will stand united and in solidarity with ireland when it comes to preserving the good friday agreement. we know that we are facing a british government that we can’t trust, and i think that even his own party – well, many in his own party – recognise that he is not a trustworthy person. but we have to endure. we have to endure and find ways to keep peace in ireland. and believe us, we are with you on this.
in the name of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank prime minister martin for being here, because at this time of grave difficulty, at one of the most difficult times facing the european institutions, it is very important that there should be a constant interinstitutional dialogue, especially between this parliament and the representatives of the member states. first of all, coordination and dialogue are important to strengthen a point where, in my view, the european institutions are somewhat lacking in this difficult period, which is credibility. when facing a geopolitical challenge, a major challenge like the one we are facing in the face of russian aggression, credibility and unity are two factors of fundamental importance. unfortunately, because of the strategic and informational errors we made in the past in building our union and our model, we have seen this credibility and unity gradually disappear. so it is crucial that we work together, so that we do not create separate blocs, as we are sometimes seeing in the emergency discussions. thinking about why and how we can avoid these mistakes in the future becomes crucial. decades of energy dependence on russia, which was a political choice made by the european union in the past, has made us weak. today, when this parliament is voting on one of the most important measures of the next legislature, we must make use of our past mistakes, so as not to repeat them in the future. the energy transition, which this commission has been working on for a long time in this parliament, will be successful if it is not driven by ideology and if we learn from our mistakes in the past. at a time when we are trying to disengage from russia, tying our hands and feet to another geopolitical threat, which is the chinese one, is not exactly the right way to reshape the socioeconomic future of the european union. so we invite everyone to reflect and make a right strategic decision on our autonomy, including this package. i'll close on the last point, very important. today we are trying to support ukraine and its people in the face of this aggression, and the citizens of europe have made a great effort and are putting up with a great effort to that end, but we have been asking for some time for the european institutions to take concrete action so that the burden of this new crisis does not fall on the european citizens and our businesses. in the face of the challenges we are facing - inflation, rising costs, unemployment and loss of purchasing power - it is essential that there are three priorities for the european institutions: work, work, work. we have a great opportunity to shape our new model of the future, which must be based on an autonomy that frees us from regimes and makes us independent in our geopolitical choices. if we are not able to shape this system by looking at the mistakes of the past, the european union will unfortunately remain a weak geopolitical actor that will always depend on others. thank you. we're counting on you.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, i say to the taoiseach: in his final speech to this parliament, john hume proposed that the eu should have a commissioner for peace and reconciliation, whose mission would be to promote dialogue and help create a world in which there is no longer any war. we are no closer to that vision, but it is worth holding on to. and i echo these sentiments in the hope that a similar approach underpins ireland’s council of europe presidency assumed recently. for, as we know, human rights are the core of the council of europe. sometimes in this institution we let economic considerations blind us to human rights violations. i refer specifically to the british government, which daily shows its contempt for the rule of law and, in particular, international human rights law. they are renouncing the european convention on human rights and actively undermining the good friday agreement. not only are they unilaterally rewriting the protocol, but also imposing one-sided legislation on the legacy of the conflict, providing an amnesty for crimes committed by state forces. the international community has and needs to continue to defend the good friday agreement. finally, taoiseach, could i remind you that human rights are often intertwined with social and economic rights? the rights of ordinary people to a home must trump the supposed rights of those who are pricing people out of the housing market or charging extortionate rents.
madam president, i would like to thank the taoiseach for being here and for his remarks. the fundamental rights of any european must be the concern of every european, and in 1976, ireland led by example. you took the uk to court for torturing detainees in northern ireland. it was an uphill fight, but time has shown that you were right. yet decades later, we still see judges using evidence extracted by mistreating detainees. a recent ruling of the european court of human rights ruled that a conviction of 17 years based on a confession extracted in isolation and without counsel was not a fair trial. the man was set free, but last week the spanish supreme court disobeyed and sent him back to jail. spain’s disregard for the strasbourg court is astonishing. eleven times they have been condemned for not investigating torture. but guess what? the judge that was blind to abuse and torture in six of these cases, the delinquent judge, mr grande-marlaska, is now security minister in spain. taoiseach, the tolerance of the eu authorities to spanish human rights violation is alarming. we urge you to make your voice and speak clearly about that. we need to hear ireland’s voice again. please defend human rights for all europeans.
taoiseach. – madam president, first of all could i thank all the members for responding and for the points they have made. the honourable member frances fitzgerald made a number of key points, not least on the transformative impact of european union membership in ireland, and particularly on women in ireland, over the last 50 years. also, you made a key point in relation to enlargement. i think you posed the question that if we say to countries ‘we want you to join’ and are opening the door, why does it take so long? my own view is that the enlargement process has taken far too long, and i think we need to have a fundamental reflection on this. we were with the western balkans before christmas last, and there is no reason why north macedonia and albania should not be members of the european union now. in my view, we have to accelerate the process. we have to make a fundamental call as a union, in terms of enlargement. (applause) my own personal view, coming from where we are coming from – ireland in 1973 – is that it has been transformative. there is no point in saying anything else. because of that, i always feel it very difficult to put a barrier up against another country that wishes to join and that fulfils the criteria. that would be our view. we don’t think politics should get in the way, that localised or regionalised issues should get in the way of a country being allowed to join. i think it’s a key question. it’s a fundamental point that we should all reflect on. the next issue was two points, from pedro marques i think, in relation to, first of all, the protocol. you asked me to elaborate. i don’t think i have the time to elaborate fully, but what i would say is that if there was a nobel peace prize for patience, maroš šefčovič would win hands down. i want to thank him for the role that he has played. but to say fundamentally where it’s at, is that unionist politicians have raised legitimate questions, you know, issues around the operation of the protocol, and we believe, the european union, believes that it can resolve these issues. but the fundamental question remains as to what the british government’s ultimate position is. that’s why i referred in my opening address to the absence of political will. i just simply do not detect a sustained political will on behalf of the uk government to settle this and resolve this, because it without question can be resolved. the more fundamental concern i have is on the overall stability of the architecture of the good friday agreement and the spirit that informs that. i said earlier, you know, that it took a lot of work from a lot of people to get the good friday agreement over the line, and therefore we should all be very, very careful in doing anything that could undermine that. i feel the uk government is not giving due consideration to the totality of what’s involved in the good friday agreement. on tax competition, again ireland was very constructive and cooperative in terms of the oecd process, and we signed up to that. as a country, we continue to engage at international level in all fora in relation to tax issues. but the more fundamental issue that we find now in terms of foreign direct investment coming into ireland is the talent question. most companies are in search of talent or ability and so on. that speaks to the question of migration that a colleague also spoke about and questioned, asserted that there was an amnesty in ireland. there’s no amnesty in ireland, but we do believe that if the undocumented are undocumented for a long period of time, they need to have their lives regularised, to have their lives resolved and become full citizens of ireland. that’s what we’re doing. i just would make the point in terms of the question around migration that the reason president biden is president of the united states is because of an enormous migratory trail from ireland to the united states after the famine and throughout the 19th century. we are the last country to start condemning migration or to take a very narrow perspective on migration, and that is our position on that. one of the transformative things in ireland today is the multiculturalism of modern ireland, that so many citizens have come from within europe and beyond europe to live in ireland. i was taken by what philippe said earlier that there is still that generosity of spirit in ireland, and that engagement, and long may that continue. we have to work at that. there are always challenges around that, and i take on board the nice comments you made in terms of humility and gravitas and so on – although the city i come from in ireland, people don’t normally associate us with humility or modesty, but that’s an internal irish matter! i do take your point on climate change. it’s about delivery now. we have passed the legislation. i think what we have done though is put the template in place and the foundations for fundamental change into the future. the real challenge is delivery and really getting political consensus on delivery. i am passionately committed to this, and to the restoration of biodiversity as well. we’ve a journey to travel, but we’re committed to doing it and the legal framework is in place. if i say so, offshore wind will be a very big development in ireland over the next decade or so and we will be a net exporter of energy in the mid—2030s because of the fact that we have a lot of wind around our coast, with seas seven times the land mass of ireland. in terms of stéphane’s point on the conference on the future of europe, we are very open – and i’m very open to the idea of treaty change on the basis of the enlargement question. if we enlarge, we have to work out how we manage and operate the union more efficiently and more effectively. we can’t operate with all the rules as the union enlarges itself. so we’re very much in favour of really pursuing that particular issue and being open to change in terms of how we do things within the council, the parliament’s right to initiative and so forth. i would have a strong belief in public health, for example. i was a former minister for health. i witnessed how in every domain every nationalist said we can’t allow our health systems or whatever to be the competency of, or to move to europe, and so on. but, as we saw during the pandemic, public health, as a discipline within the broader health arena, really is a european competency. the hera initiative and all of that is essential to the future of public health across europe. when i was a minister for health, there was no chance of procuring vaccines. not a chance. it was so discordant and so forth. so to me it was a marvel to see europe procure vaccines, enable the production of vaccines, and become the largest donor of vaccines in the world, for which the european union doesn’t get credit. it is the largest donor, and the most consistent donor of vaccines. in terms of the energy transition, and i think marco zanni made the point in relation to the geopolitical situation and ties to china, the war on ukraine is causing us all to reflect very deeply on how we develop relationships into the future, how we maintain them in terms of the rule of law, values and democracy. i think there’s going to be a period of forward reflection in terms of how we engage with others who also transgress the fundamental values in our system. i think i’ve dealt with the migration issue. suffice to say that we need to work much harder on climate change, on a whole range of issues, to reduce the necessity for migration and to enable sustainability within many countries in the neighbourhood of europe and in africa in terms of economic sustainability, social sustainability, climate sustainability. that’s ultimately the way that we have a proper balanced approach to these issues. in relation to chris macmanus’s point, again i was at the council of europe yesterday, met with the secretary—general, also visited the european court of human rights, which has a strong resonance for ireland because of our history and because of the work it did in terms of northern ireland, and also in the airey case, for example, which was fundamental in terms of access to legal aid, not just for ireland but for the entirety of europe in terms of that decision, and also the norris case and lgbtq rights, and the louise o’keeffe case. so we have a strong affinity with that. again, what was interesting is that the united kingdom government has nothing to fear from the european court of human rights. in fact, it has one of the lowest number of cases against it. it seems to be very determined to create problems where problems don’t really exist. so we’re very committed to that, and again, on a more general level, in terms of tolerance of any violation of human rights, we are very strong on human rights as a country. we want to be and we will continue to play our part at european union level in advancing and human rights. i want to thank you all very much for your contributions. it has been a privilege and an honour for me to address you as taoiseach, and i look forward to engaging with you in the time ahead. (sustained applause)
thank you so much dear taoiseach micheál martin for those comprehensive replies. i see the reaction from the room is testament to the engagement of this parliament in the ongoing discussion that we can have with you and your country. that concludes the debate.
in relation to the decisions by the itre and econ committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) announced at the opening of the session on monday 6 june, i have received no request for a vote in parliament by members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold. the committees may therefore start the negotiations. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item is the debate on the european council and commission statements on the conclusions of the special european council meeting of 30—31 may 2022 (2022/2704(rsp)). dear colleagues i remind you that the free seating is applied with the exception of the first two rows that are allocated to group leaders. you will be able to request catch-the-eye and blue cards via your voting machine after having inserted your voting card, and therefore this is a reminder to have your voting card whenever you come into the hemicycle. should you wish to register for catch-the-eye i invite you to do so starting from now, without waiting for the end of the debate. also, blue cards can be raised for a short intervention which would allow a short follow-up question. the interventions will continue to be made from the central lectern, with the exception of catch-the-eye, blue cards and points of order.
president of the european council. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. two days ago, i was at the un security council to express our common european commitment to condemn russian atrocities and to reaffirm our support for ukraine. the russian ambassador did not like what i said, and he walked out because he refused to look truth in the eye. but we won’t stop telling the truth. we won’t stop acting to back ukraine and to confront russia with the facts. russia is using food as a weapon of war, stealing grain, blockading ports and turning farmlands into battlefields. there are over 20 million tons of grain, wheat and corn stuck in ukraine. this is disrupting global food security, driving up prices and causing global famine. during our european council meeting, we focused on the logistical solutions to get these products to global markets, including working with ukraine – and eu member states – to establish alternative transport routes. global hunger is everyone’s business, so it requires a coordinated, comprehensive and global approach, and we are working with the g7, the african union and all our other partners. in new york a few days ago, i met with secretary—general guterres to discuss global food security and our common efforts to get the blocked grain out of odesa. the kremlin is weaponising food supplies and surrounding their actions with a web of lies, soviet—style. we must join forces to call out these fabrications as pure fiction, particularly for the global south. these are russian ships and russian missiles that are blocking the export of crops and grain; russian tanks, bombs and mines are preventing ukraine from planting and harvesting. let’s be clear: there are no eu sanctions on russian agricultural products. and i say to all countries affected by this food crisis: don’t be fooled by the kremlin’s propaganda, don’t be instrumentalised by russia. we also reached a landmark agreement on russian oil. this embargo will cover 90% of oil imports from russia into the eu by the end of the year. this is a remarkable achievement and it will be extended to all pipeline oil as soon as possible. two months ago, in this house, i said that sooner or later, measures on hydrocarbons would be needed, and we did it. this shows that we are, and we remain, united and committed to piling the pressure on russia. ukraine urgently needs liquidity: eur 5 billion a month just to keep the country running. so we discussed how we can work with our international partners to get the ukrainian government the money it needs. we agreed to provide up to eur 9 billion to ukraine in macro—financial assistance and we also addressed ukraine’s reconstruction: right now and in the future, the eu must be, and will be, a leader in driving this forward. we discussed a ukraine reconstruction platform, together with the ukrainian government, the eu and member states, and all our international partners and friends. russia is brutally destroying ukraine and it is only fair that russia – the aggressor – should pay to rebuild the country. we agreed to look into the possibility of confiscating assets of sanctioned russian individuals and entities, in line with eu and international law. this could help finance ukraine’s reconstruction. russia’s war has bolstered our ambition for a strong, coordinated european defence. in march, in versailles, we agreed to strengthen our security and to increase our sovereignty. we want to have defence capabilities that match today’s threats and we agreed to urgently replenish member states’ stocks of equipment sent to ukraine, and in the medium and long term, to reinforce our european defence technology and industrial sector, including smes. this means better coordinating our purchases and pooling spending for joint procurement. member states’ lack of cooperation on defence is costing tens of billions of euros per year. only 11% of member states’ defence investments are spent collaboratively, and we are missing huge opportunities for real savings, for economies of scale and for ensuring that our armed forces are more interoperable. a more capable eu will strengthen nato and increase global security. we also discussed energy prices, including the possibility of trying to lower the gas price by capping it, together with our international partners. different views remain on the feasibility and we have therefore tasked the commission to analyse this. we are also working to phase out russian fossil fuel imports. to become more energy independent, we will act in four key areas. first, we will diversify the fuels we use and the sources they come from; second, we will speed up the deployment of renewables and the permitting procedures; third, we will do more to save energy and promote energy efficiency; and finally, we will invest in infrastructure, interconnections and renewables. but our discussions showed that much work remains on the financing aspects of the commission’s proposals and the council will now take work forward in these different areas. if we want to be a geopolitical power, we must act as a geopolitical power. this means taking care of ourselves but also taking care of others. by being together, we can use that power to become more sovereign and more prosperous, more influential.we are united and committed to back ukraine and to build our common future. (applause)
president of the commission. – madam president, dear roberta, dear mr president, cher charles, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members, in the early weeks of this war, you remember that the leaders were gathering in versailles and europe found a common sense of purpose. the european commission took responsibility to translating this purpose into action. at the european council last week, there we presented our very practical approaches and proposals on four main topics. the first one is: we have to get rid of the dependency on russian fossil fuels. we have gotten rid already of coal, we are now in a phase where we can wind down the dependency on russian oil: 90% till the end of the year – i would have hoped for 100%, but this is unanimity – so 90% is good till the end of the year. and now we have to look at gas, and for that we presented the eur 300-billion package repowereu. what is in it? three main pillars, the first one is diversify away from russia towards more trustworthy and good suppliers, friends of us, for example the united sates, and to invest in the necessary infrastructure in a way – when i’m speaking for example about pipelines and interconnectors – that yesterday it’s for gas but tomorrow it has to be hydrogen-ready so the investment is worth it. the second part is energy saving. and energy efficiency sounds so easy, it is a big topic. because i just want to share with you one figure that really impressed me. if in the european union over a year we decrease the average heating temperature by two degrees only, this is the equivalent of the whole supply of nordstream 1, two degrees only. and this shows the power of energy savings and energy efficiency. and the third pillar is the most important, that is massive investment in renewables. and i could speak here for an hour about that topic, but i will not do that because i have to focus now on the three other topics. the second one is, and was, defence. at the council the commission did a gaps analysis: there is a clear underinvestment since the economic and financial crisis, you can see it. i give you a few figures that show that: in the last decade we had an increase in defence spending in the european union by 19%, the united states: 65%, russia: 300% and china: 600%. and i think these figures are telling. so now the good news is that leaders have stepped up and, if you look at the figures they have now put publicly as investment in defence it’s eur 200 billion. now it is important not only that we have that eur 200 billion but how we spend it, and here join procurement is paramount because this is a question of ending the fragmentation, of economy of scale, of interoperability and of development of our industrial base here in the european union. so we really have to look at that intensively. the third topic was very important: on relief and reconstruction on ukraine. i explained that extensively last time when we were here in strasbourg, so today i want to focus on food security, and perhaps in my closing remarks it might be possible to refer to relief and reconstruction. food security: honourable members, the russian invasion of ukraine reverberates around the world. this is not just about what its impact is on economics, geopolitics or security architecture. it is about the lives and livelihoods of millions of people around the world, millions of people who fear that they will not be able to afford tomorrow how to heat their homes or feed their children. and the numbers are stark. this year alone, some 275 million people are likely to be at least at the risk of food insecurity across the world: not to know where to get your food as of tomorrow. and in an inflationary world we are in right now, that risk and those numbers can quickly spiral further out of control. many families in parts of sub-saharan africa already spend close to half of their income on food, they have no room to manoeuvre any more with rising food prices, no way. so it is no surprise that the world bank has estimated that 10 million people are pushed into extreme poverty for every percentage point increase in food prices, 10 million people, one per cent increase. so we should be under no illusions about the challenges ahead. we are facing up to a collision of crises, which will amplify food insecurity and debt distress around the world. some of these are a legacy of the pandemic and wider issues linked to the cost of living. for instance, the rising energy prices that have driven up the costs of fertilisers or of transporting exports. others are more long-term and structural, such as the effects of extreme weather linked to climate change. but, honourable members, whether cyclical or structural, all of these impacts have one thing in common: they are massively – and deliberately – compounded by putin’s war. this is a cold, callous and calculated siege by putin on some of the most vulnerable countries and people in the world. and therefore, honourable members, food has become now part of the kremlin’s arsenal of terror, and we cannot tolerate this. i think this is the only way to describe russia’s bombarding of grain storage, the blockage of the ukrainian ports, in some cases even theft of grain from ukraine. so at the moment there are round about 20 million tonnes of grain currently trapped in ukraine. and it is our duty to dismantle russia’s disinformation. let us be very clear, in this hemicycle and outside: our sanctions do not touch basic food commodities. they do not affect the trading of grain, or other food, between russia and third countries. and the port embargo specifically has full exemption on agricultural goods. so let’s stick to the truth: it’s putin’s war of aggression that fuels the rood crisis and nothing else. honourable members, while the cause is without doubt, our response must be just as clear. and there are four areas of action which i believe we must now focus on together. the first is keeping the markets open so that trade can continue to flow. this means stepping up our work on the solidarity lanes. we are working very hard to provide an alternative way – i know it’s not optimal – but it’s at least to something make sure that the grain that is blocked in ukraine gets on the markets as quickly as possible, this helps. but the world needs the black sea ports of ukraine up and running again, because the majority of ukrainian grain can only be exported in time through the black sea routes. and, therefore, i am very grateful to the united nations for its efforts. in parallel, we need to work with our partners to ensure there are no export restrictions or controls that will hamper the market. the european union keeps its food exports going, and so should everyone else. the second area, this is solidarity and support to partners. this is about short-term support to the countries most at risk. for example, we are now investing an additional eur 225 million to address the short- and medium-term needs of the southern neighbourhood partners. and i will be in egypt next week to discuss with president el-sisi how best we can target our support to the region; this is a big, big task for all of us. the third area is responding and investing in making local markets more sustainable and resilient. if you look at the figures, 50 years ago africa produced all the food it needed, only 50 years ago. then climate change made water scarce, and the desert swallowed hundreds of kilometres of fertile land, year after year. today, africa is heavily dependent on imports for critical food products, and this makes it vulnerable. and therefore, in the medium and long term, an initiative to boost the region’s own production capacity is critical to strengthen the region’s resilience. we should have the same mind-set like we did with the vaccines. yes, at the moment being we have to bring food to africa, yes it is the short-term solution and it is necessary, without any question. and we should look at how we use our grain here in europe and how much we can really bring to africa. but in the mid and long term, like with the vaccines, it should not be our food brought to africa, but it should be the technology that is in africa, and africa produces itself what it needs. so here we really have to step up. and for this, the eu budget has already earmarked eur 3 billion to invest in agriculture and nutrition, water and sanitation programmes, precision farming, nanotechnology for fertilisers, you don’t need the energy any more. so there are many, many, many interesting technologies out there. but it is clear that we will need to do more. and we will need to move faster. and this is why the commission has raised with member states now the possibility to mobilise eur 600 million of decommitted funds from the european development fund. and, please, i would be very, very happy if we move swiftly, i know that this parliament is able to do it – you have proven it in the crisis, so let’s prove it another time. finally, let me emphasise that we are not doing this alone. we are working very closely with member states through the team europe approach. we are working closely with the united nations and the g7 presidency; that has made this a key theme of the upcoming leaders’ meeting. unity and support are the strongest messages we can send in the face of russian action and russian disinformation. and, honourable members, it is only natural that many of our partners around the world see this conflict through the prism of food or energy prices. and they expect the european union, of course other countries around the world too, but they expect the european union to show the same resolve, the same solidarity as we have rightly shown towards ukraine, when it comes to addressing the food crisis in the world. and this is exactly what we will do through our own response, through our work within the g7 and other partners. long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, yes, let’s assess the last council meeting. first of all, about sanctions, defence, all the other initiatives, i think the outcome is good. we took a step forward. europe is on a good path. but i ask myself, frankly speaking, when we reflect about the last council meeting, why nobody mentioned until now the name of viktor orbán. because when people saw what happened in the last european council, i think they understood that there is viktor orbán, one of the crazy guys, at the table, and this is a problem for us as europeans. i ask myself, how was it to sit next to him, to have the experience of being blackmailed by viktor orbán, to have putin’s interests sitting at the table? i have a long history personally with viktor orbán. we kicked him out two years ago. today, my party, the ppe, is in poland, and in czechia, for example, we kicked the corrupt babiš out of office. so we are the rule of law party today in a lot of central and eastern european countries. i am proud about this. but again, how was it? and i ask these questions because i think a lot of people, all of europe, understand that the current architecture, the current decision-making process is not anymore giving us answers to the tasks of the table. that’s why the question again: why are we not initiating the passerelle clause in the lisbon treaty? why don’t we discuss these issues? the european parliament will vote tomorrow on the idea to ask for a convention. i think, all colleagues from the other groups, that we find a good text now, that we find a common understanding about our requests on the table, a joint text. i hope that the leaders have enough will, show enough leadership, to really develop the idea of a convention. when we speak about leadership, then also ukraine is in our mind, the next european council will have to discuss its candidate status. i want to remind us that a few days after the war started, on 24 february, president zelenskyy was here on the screen and he was asking us, are we welcome? can we become a member of the club? is it worth to fight? that was his question. and i said here, like a lot of my colleague: yes, you have to come, yes, you can join the european union. and that’s why it’s so important that we give, in the next european council, a clear mandate, a clear signal to the ukrainian friends that their fight is a good fight and they are welcome in the european family. so that’s why we need a decision of a candidate status now, that is what we need, and also for moldova. i want to be clear on this, that the republic of moldova has to have the same treatment. i want to underline that this is part of a broader development, for sure. and we speak about the western balkans. the whole enlargement process is not any more about the single market, it is today about stability, and that’s why we should do it now. we should show leadership again in this aspect. and my group is fighting hard for this. and then i want to welcome the initiatives from the commission on food security. a lot of these issues are good issues and to prioritise this is great. probably, generally speaking, we can say that farmers are not seen anymore as the bad guys polluting our environment, because that was the perception over the last years. farmers are those who are working hard, families who are working hard to deliver high-quality food for all of us. and that should be respected, that should be seen, especially in the week when we celebrate 60 years of the cap. and then we speak about the economic situation for farmers. here i want to ask the president of the council to consider putting another item on the agenda of the next european council, because for the moment we speak a lot about the external dimension but we do not speak so much about the concerns of our citizens, and that is about inflation, that is about the interest rates going up in the next few months. from what we hear from the ecb, the growth rate is not promising for today’s european expectations. we are facing a recession, a possible recession. people are confronted with the question: can i pay my bill for holidays now or for a better education for my children? that is the question of citizens in the european union. and that’s why politically, populists are already waiting for this development. we have to give an answer. we have to prioritise this debate now. we have to prioritise it now. and the ppe always insists on jobs, jobs, jobs. that is our message and i ask you now to put this on the agenda of the european council to discuss this issue among leaders. from my political family, i can tell you, with strengthening the single market, less bureaucracy, yes to trade agreements. we need the mercosur agreement now and also in this fit for 55 package of today to find a good balance; we want to have a decarbonisation but not a de-industrialisation of the european union. that is now on the table and that’s why we have to prioritise this issue. leadership is needed again.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. on the one hand, i was relieved to see that the unity of the 27 was finally maintained, because that is our best weapon to counter the threat from putin and also to support ukraine. i was glad that the sixth sanctions package was adopted, despite the concessions. i was not surprised, honestly, because some who do not know the meaning of the word "solidarity" tried to take their share of the crisis. but that was within the realm of expectation. what i did not expect was that both the commission and the council would forget the internal dimension of this crisis, that they would not discuss the resolution of this parliament on the social and economic consequences which we had just adopted. of course we're going to support ukraine. of course we must strengthen our collective security. of course we have a responsibility to prevent a global food crisis. but to refuse to see how this war affects the daily lives of europeans is a dangerous shortsightedness. yes, dangerous, because there's nothing else to do but go out and talk to people. come on, we don't even need to talk to people. i imagine that any of you go to the supermarket when we can get out of this parliament and see how the shopping basket has become more expensive. and i am sure you are aware that there are many, many families in europe who are in real difficulty, who have no more than 50 euros a week to fill their shopping basket. and that is what we have to talk about, and that is why i regret that the council did not discuss this matter in depth. we don't know how long this war will last. it is no longer an emergency situation and all our policies must take this dimension into account from now on. we actually already have the largest influx of refugees, and especially female refugees, since world war ii. the solidarity shown by the citizens, and especially by the countries bordering ukraine, is commendable. now, let's see if governments are up to the task, because we need to fund integration policies for all these people. and i think it is time for the council to sit down and discuss the migration pact, mr michel. the climate emergency and the food crisis, to which the commission itself has referred, seem to indicate that the migratory pressure is not likely to abate. so what do we have to do? work from now on, work and be prepared. let us seek a dignified, united and ambitious solution to the demographic challenge, because the creation of new financial instruments will be the best way to guarantee this. if member states were to introduce a tax on the windfall profits of electricity companies in a coordinated way, as this parliament is calling for, €90 billion could be raised every year. look at the social policies we could do with that money. so we have the possibility of doing more. i shall conclude with one proposal, or rather two. firstly, that parliament's resolution on the social and economic consequences be read. and the second is that we should organise a new social summit, like the one held in porto last year, to respond to this time of inflation and social uncertainty that we are living through. we're not short of ideas. we lack the courage and the conviction that we can do things better.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr president, since the aggression of putin's russia against ukraine, the european union has demonstrated a unity and determination that many had underestimated. and i mean, your work, both of you, has a lot to do with it. our first responsibility is to preserve them in the long term. the collective dynamic initiated with repowereu can contribute to this. exiting russian hydrocarbons would both strengthen our energy independence and weaken vladimir putin. this phase-out of fossil fuels is urgent and essential, but it remains terribly complicated. after coal, last week's summit did endorse the abandonment of russian oil, but this will not happen before the end of the year. this gives putin plenty of time to prepare for it, by taking advantage of the surplus profits, given the price increases that our own decisions will inevitably fuel. as for an embargo on russian gas, we are actually leaving the initiative to vladimir putin himself. i think many of us would have liked to have seen an immediate break with this double dependence on russia and fossil fuels. but the choices of the past make that scenario impossible. energy infrastructure is designed to last, and replacing or adapting it requires considerable time and resources. the fact that european governments are still thinking of putting coal mines back into operation or simply replacing russian gas with gas from elsewhere is therefore a complete aberration. it is again ensuring that we are the fossil slaves of tomorrow's decisions made today. we welcome the european commission's drive to accelerate the energy transition with the repowereu plan. more renewables, more efficiency: this is the beginning of energy wisdom. but this plan is too timid about the third, essential, component of the transition: reducing our voracity. you referred to this, madam president, when you spoke of the temperature in the buildings. the ever-increasing, ever-faster, ever-further distance is leading to energy expenditure that we simply cannot afford any longer. the time for a just sobriety has come, and there is still much to be done. and, mr president, in this area, the bulk of the means, the bulk of the levers, are in the hands of the member states. the second concern i want to raise this morning concerns the european attitude to the authoritarian excesses of the hungarian and polish governments. at the moment they are using the war in ukraine both as an alibi to make people forget about their systematic violations of the rule of law and as a lever to blackmail europe. on the one hand, viktor orban is trying to make his support for the oil embargo conditional on obtaining several hundred million euros without any conditions related to the rule of law. on the other hand, mateusz morawiecki succeeded in getting the polish recovery plan approved by the commission despite the opposition of several prominent members of the college. and, like them, we have no confidence in a polish government which has so far refused to take any concrete action in response to the many complaints raised by the european commission and the court of justice of the union. the three conditions for the payment of the rescue fund to poland are only part of these complaints. the commission is no longer making the resettlement of illegally dismissed judges a prerequisite. for us, that's out of the question. we therefore call on the governments of the member states not to approve the polish recovery plan as it stands. like most hungarian, polish and other citizens of the union - i repeat - we sincerely hope for a lasting pacification of the union's relations with these two member states, which have their rightful place in the union. but this can only be done if their governments give up their libertarian ways. to see the european union abandon its core values would be a victory for vladimir putin. the maintenance of the determination and unity of europeans can never, ever be at the cost of such renunciation.
on behalf of the id group. – madam president, ms von der leyen, mr michel, first of all, as i have only one minute or one and a half minutes, i would like to really agree with mr weber from epp when he mentioned that actually we have to discuss also about topics when we’re talking about inflation, when we’re talking about the food security. i really loved when he mentioned that we should not see any more the farmers as a huge risk or damage to the environment. we have to see them as producers for the food and we know that we need a food security to be more independent from russia, from china, even from us. and, of course, if you don’t propose solutions, if we can’t solve the real problems for our citizens in european countries, then those bad guys that’s called populists will come with solutions. and, of course, they propose sometimes very good solutions, if i call myself as a populist sometimes. second thing about russia and ukraine. i think the sanction package is, of course, a huge step forward. but at the same time, we have to remind that from 24 february, eu has paid over eur 50 billion to russia for energy. on the same time, we have proposed the military help from the eu only for a few billion euros and the sanctions are effective in the long term maybe, in six months, in one year. but we have to think how to win russia in few months, in end of the summer, and we will win the war if there is enough military aid to ukraine. and if germany is not doing enough, as we see today by mr scholz, if france is totally not understandable, if mr macron is saying that we can’t humiliate vladimir putin, then it’s your duty and it’s your duty to provide more military aid by eu to ukraine to win this war. and then we can also look forward with the sanction package to destroy their economy. that’s the short—term view how we have to react. and for the long term, of course, the sanctions are necessary. i don’t agree also with some member states who are trying to block everything and are not cooperating together. but more thinking on inflation, economic problems for our citizens, and more thinking about military aid to ukraine.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, the resolution we are going to vote on tomorrow is primarily dealing with the media freedom and safety of journalists in georgia and there is plenty to be critical about on that front. georgia has, over the last two years, nosedived in the global media freedom index. despite the solid legal framework, the physical safety of journalists and media representatives has significantly deteriorated, as illustrated by the violence by far-right groups against the participants in last year’s pride march and against the journalists covering the event. more recently, it has been illustrated by the sentencing of mr gvaramia, a well-known media figure, on rather dubious charges. obviously, the problems of georgia and the challenges it faces go beyond the media scene. we all do have legitimate concerns about recent negative trends in the area of rule of law and democracy more generally. the recent conduct of the georgian government has, quite frankly, been frustrating and disappointing on many fronts. i do believe that in a situation like this, we need to adopt a more resolute and more demanding line in our communications with our georgian rulers, so they really understand that it is they who have to deliver to the georgian people when it comes to georgia’s european aspirations. however, i would like to also point out that a policy on our behalf will have to be based on a comprehensive and well thought-through strategy, not merely frustration and emotions. so i urge us all to carefully analyse potential consequences and plan for our next steps, so that our no doubt well-intentioned steps do not inadvertently undermine the legitimate aspirations of the georgian people or our own strategic interests in the region.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, mr vice—president, colleagues, some months ago in this house we adopted, by a very large majority, a resolution that called for candidate status for ukraine. some weeks ago, we had a good discussion with the president of moldova and recognised the achievements of moldova’s eu integration. today we are discussing violation of media freedom and the safety of journalists in georgia. i was not among the initiators of the resolution. i do not consider it urgent, but i agree with my colleagues that there are problems in georgia, which i have also mentioned as the co—chair of the eu—georgia pac. the country that some years ago was a frontrunner among our eastern partners has recently, unfortunately, lost its speed and steadfast commitment to democratic reforms. i urge georgian politicians from the governing party, as well as from opposition: take today’s discussion as a last wake—up call, put aside party interests, stop blaming each other and start working together on the democratic reforms that are so needed in georgia. the window of opportunity is still open. that is what georgian people are expecting from you.
prime minister, i now give you the floor to respond to the questions, the comments, the gifts, the attributions, the books that you have received.
prime minister of croatia. – madam president, thank you very much. how much time do i have? five minutes – okay. i will try then to be very precise!
everybody has sort of gone over their time already! you should be fine.
prime minister of croatia. – madam president, thank you very much to the president of the european people’s party and the epp group in the parliament, manfred weber, for the positive comments about croatia’s advancement and especially the fulfilment of the criteria for joining the eurozone. when it comes to the follow-up on the conference on the future of europe, we shall certainly debate it within the council. as i told you, having been in the european parliament, i can completely understand the position of the european parliament and i will certainly give a constructive contribution of croatia to what we can do to improve our decision-making. and as i said, in terms of foreign policy, we basically agree on 97, 98, perhaps 99% of issues, and there are a small margin of those dossiers where we need more consultation and perhaps more time to forge a compromise. to ms borzan on energy, it’s good that you mentioned it, now i can repeat that we have provided an hrk 5 billion package to subsidise our households, to subsidise our micro-, small and medium-sized business, to subsidise our farmers, to subsidise our fishermen, to subsidise our pensioners, to lower the vat from 25 to 5% from 13 to 5 for all those products which are mostly used by our citizens and thus mitigate the effects of the spike of the prices. and we shall continue to do that again. and not only the government, the state inspectorate, but also the watchdogs in terms of consumer protection should play their role and strongly blacklist those who are trying to profit in this crisis and unduly and unjustifiably raise the prices of their products. when it comes to mr grošelj, thank you for the support for the euro. when it comes to the eu funds and to the aid of the european union through the eu solidarity fund for earthquakes, i’m grateful here for the commission who has helped us to not only receive for two terrible earthquakes in zagreb and the banovina region almost eur 1 billion, we are streamlining the efforts of all the ministries in order to speed up the process of reconstruction and also, on the general comments on the use of funds, we are using them in the best practices that exist in the european union with all the scrutiny and the controls that are required. on the rule of law and pacta sunt servanda, generally, yes, absolutely, but at the same time, you are aware, coming from slovenia, that the unfortunate arbitration process on the border dispute fell and was inevitably and irretrievably lost and denounced by the croatian parliament because of the fraudulent activities that were happening between the slovenian agent and the slovenian member of the arbitration council. so we want to solve the bilateral border issue, but not on the basis of the process which could not have been cleansed as if it was the mistake of a first grader at school by making a typing error on the alphabet. when it comes to the migration pact, we of course support it, it is part of our approach to schengen. schengen needs to be renovated, upgraded and updated, but croatia should be within schengen. when it comes to your comment on bosnia and herzegovina national politics – nationalistic politics – please bear in mind bosnia and herzegovina applied for membership of the european union in february of 2016, when dragan čović, – the leader of perhaps in your eyes a nationalist party which is croatian democratic union of bosnia and herzegovina, our sister party – was chairman of the presidency of bosnia and herzegovina. this démarche of filing an application was more supported by the members of this house – croatian members of the european parliament, both from hdz but also from social democrats and some other friends such as at the time romanian rapporteur preda – than many member states of the european union. and we were the first one to support the european union membership path of bosnia and herzegovina and we shall continue to do so and continue to extend the knowledge and understanding of the country that is based on the concept of one state, two entities and three constituent peoples which should be equal. none of the constituent peoples, in this case croats, in the territory or federation should not be treated as not equal. this is the only basic, simple, normal, decent demand and we will stick to it. the other issue that mr lamberts mentioned, when it comes to the choice of croatia for being part of the european union, i think we had this debate when you visited croatia two and a half years ago, i really enjoyed it and i think you understood that we are doing this of our own choice, of our own free will. we shall continue to do it. pooling and sharing of sovereignty is something we support. we think we are stronger in the european union than we would have been if we were not. and therefore, the full understanding of the concept of european integration is something that we fully support. on schengen and the fact that croatian police – more than 6 000 members of the croatian police – is protecting croatia’s external border, is a job which is very difficult to do, a job where they have the total scrutiny of the entire ministry of the interior. every single complaint is being checked and verified. we have established an entirely independent monitoring mechanism out of our own will in cooperation with the european commission. i think that the report of the independent monitoring mechanism will be out sometime next week. in the process of scrutiny in the european parliament when the opinion on croatia’s membership of schengen will be done, we will be open to explain and to provide arguments on any potential allegations, if there are some, and we shall provide answers. but generally the schengen acquis, we are ready. the legal standards we are ready. the protection of the border, we are completely ready. plus, we are the country that never made a political decision to elevate walls, no fences, no barbed wires, not with serbia, not with bosnia and herzegovina, not with montenegro. these are our friends and neighbours, with whom we should not have physical barriers. and this is something that we can only protect by the presence of croatian police along more than 1 300 kilometres of our external border. to mr beck and mr jurzyca, two points: croatia is a highly euro-ised economy. our savings, our loans are basically more than 50-60% in euros. some 70% of tourists that visit croatia come from the eurozone. our trade is with the eurozone. this was the logical choice, logical follow-up of our accession treaty. we are basically abrogating the derogation and this is the work that has been done diligently, fulfilling all the criteria with the action plan and clear opinions of the commission and of the ecb actually give us argument to continue to do that. for our economy the euro will bring benefits and it will not be a negative circumstance. when it comes to schengen, i think i have answered ms ernst. i will look at what you have given me. when it comes to mr sinčić, i think that it’s no surprise to the croatian public that you come here and advocate basically the russian position. this is very clear. you will belong to one of those political actors who is strongly supported by the russian actors. you did this in the croatian parliament. you are doing this now in the european parliament. it’s your right, but also your responsibility. when it comes to the fight against corruption, i said at the beginning of my mandate six years ago, no one is immune to the independent work of our judicial institutions, our state prosecutor, our special prosecutor for corruption and organised crime, our police, they do their work independently. those who will, in the legal process, be declared as responsible for something, they will be condemned, or if they are not, they will be free, just as in any other country in europe. corruption is a negative phenomenon, but is not a phenomenon that is only applicable to croatia. it is unfortunately a phenomenon that exists for many years and we are fighting it strongly with the means, with the changing of the laws, with the action plans, and with concrete cases. and those who know croatia better certainly know that there is no government influence whatsoever on the work of the prosecutor or our judiciary or the police. and it will remain in such a manner because at the end of the day, when we joined the european union in 2013 and you of course didn’t contribute one millimetre for croatia becoming a member of the european union, i did, members of my party did – unlike you and perhaps yours, so this is a huge difference between the two of us. we have been europeans from the first day. you have joined the train and you are enjoying the benefits of being an mep, even though you obviously do not believe in the european union and haven’t contributed to croatia’s european journey at all. but that is democracy. i respect it. and i was very happy to be here with you today.
thank you very much prime minister. this debate is now closed and we will move on to the next debate with my colleague rainer wieland.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the preparation of the european council meeting, with the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 23 and 24 june 2022 and the meeting of the heads of state or government of the western balkans on 23 june (2022/2660 ((rsp)) and the statements by the council and the commission on the status of ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia as candidate countries (2022/2716 ((rsp)). i would remind you that, with the exception of the first two rows, which are reserved for the group chairmen, there is free choice of seats. after inserting your voting card into the voting machine, you can apply for spontaneous reports and blue cards through your voting machine. please carry your voting card with you at all times. the relevant instructions are available in the chamber. if you wish to speak spontaneously, i would ask you to do so now and not wait until the end of the debate. i would also like to point out that blue cards can also be held up for a short verbal message and that a follow-up question is permitted afterwards. i would point out that the plenary will continue to be addressed from the central podium, with the exception of spontaneous speeches, blue cards and comments on the application of the rules of procedure. i would therefore ask you to keep an eye on the list of speakers and to come to the podium shortly before your speaking time. the comment on the first two series does not, of course, concern the council and the commission.
president of the council. mr president, madam president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow and friday the heads of state and government of the european union will meet again in brussels for the european council in june, where they will have the opportunity to discuss at a time which obviously remains extremely worrying for our europe the situation of our continent in the broadest sense, the situation, of course, in ukraine, the applications for accession by ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia, important economic issues and the conference on the future of europe. our leaders are also meeting with their counterparts in the western balkans tomorrow, and will discuss the challenges arising from russia's aggression against ukraine, as it is essential, at a time when the destabilisation of our continent is also affecting the western balkans region, to reiterate our collective commitment and to ensure our commitment to stabilise this region, which remains essential to our collective security. of course, first of all, the european council will review the various dimensions of russia's war of aggression against ukraine, with a focus on the latest developments and on the continued support that needs to be given and increased to ukraine in order to preserve its economic, social, military and financial resilience and, as soon as possible, to enable its reconstruction. i welcome, on behalf of the council, the initiatives of the european commission, which has ensured our strong and united response with your full support, very broad in these benches. the union has shown all this political support by a package of sanctions aimed at putting pressure on russia and belarus. we will keep up this pressure to weaken - and we are already doing so in concrete terms - the kremlin's ability to finance its war, also by working to bring third countries into line with the eu sanctions and by fighting against any form of circumvention. the council will also address the food security issues related to the current crisis. the totally cynical use of food by russia is creating additional food insecurity which is not linked to sanctions but to russian-produced aggression. we support all efforts to do this. the president of the republic and the g7 had the opportunity to defend a food initiative, called farm, which we will develop in the coming days. we fully support the efforts of the un secretary-general in this regard and accelerate our efforts on solidarity corridors to enable the export of foodstuffs, including by land, to the maximum extent possible. of course, the main focus of our discussions will be the accession requests i mentioned from ukraine, moldova and georgia. we have said it from the very first days of this conflict, from the versailles summit: ukraine is part of our european family, without any hesitation. following ukraine's application for accession to the union on 28 february 2022, the council acted swiftly and invited the european commission to give its opinion, which it also did extremely swiftly. i also want to commend the efforts of the government and the president of ukraine themselves, who, in a very tragic and difficult situation, produced all the necessary elements for the examination of this application, as did the republic of moldova and georgia. i would like to thank the commission for having acted so diligently and published the detailed opinions a few days ago. the european council will look at this question tomorrow to discuss the approach to be taken. let us be very clear, i believe and hope that we will be able to reach a consensus at this european summit to give the expected signal, that of granting a candidature, which is not to be confused with immediate accession. i had the opportunity to discuss this with the various countries at the general affairs council. i believe that this balance between the 'quick signal' and the 'demanding accession' is the one most widely shared today by the member states and the council. there will undoubtedly be a distinction to be made between the issues of ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia, as the commission states in its own opinion. georgia has shown a very clear european intention and recognition of a european perspective is probably necessary. there is a situation that is different, especially in the expected gestures. i am thinking of the release of prisoners, which is symbolic for humanitarian networks, and other necessary european actions. the question of the western balkans is obviously not unconnected, as i said. there can be no competition in the accession process. that is why we must accelerate our efforts to provide concrete support in the various areas of cooperation - energy, security and others - with the western balkans - that is the subject of the meeting - and reiterate that the western balkan countries must join as soon as possible, but i also said that adherence to the values of the european union, in particular alignment with our sanctions policies, which reflect those values, is essential. i would like to say a few words, in conclusion, on the idea of a greater europe which is contained in the draft conclusions of the european council and which is the subject of a major political debate. the tragic situation we are in, the war on our doorstep and on our continent, requires a rethinking of our frameworks. we're not going to do it all at once, easily, in one day. but beyond the accession process and in addition to it, i stress this complementary dimension. it is in this spirit that the president of the republic, on 9 may, made a proposal for a european political community. we will have to discuss the modalities, the names, but i believe it is essential to have a framework in which we can quickly, even more quickly than in an accession process, come together on political initiatives, concrete cooperation and shared values. it's not a minus, it's a plus. it is not an alternative, it is a complement. finally, the european council will take stock of the latest developments in foreign policy, particularly in our relations with turkey and belarus. i do not want to forget - very briefly - two points. first, an economic point on the situation in the euro area, and this is good news, because i believe it also shows the progress of our european union, even in difficult circumstances. prime minister plenković was here a few moments ago. i believe that this is a strong signal, one that we have been waiting for, to strengthen our collective economy. we will also have to draw the first lessons from an unprecedented exercise to strengthen our european political project: this conference on the future of europe, which concluded before your assembly in strasbourg on 9 may, in the presence of the president of the european commission, the president of the european parliament and the president of the french republic. the european commission has analysed the conference's proposals in detail. the european parliament has already taken a decision. the council yesterday held a debate on the main thematic priorities, which is not yet conclusive. but we will need, in the coming weeks, in the coming months, to show that our actions on climate, on food security, on security and defence, on all the great challenges we face, are accelerating, that our action is strengthening, and that war does not prevent us from strengthening our europe, but on the contrary, highlights its vital necessity. i believe that this is our common commitment and this european summit, which is the last to be held under the french six-monthly presidency before the czech republic takes our place in this exercise, is an event that cannot be missed and will be, in many ways, historic.
president of the commission. – mr president, mr minister, honourable members, from the early days of the maidan, ukraine has very bravely resisted russia’s aggression. ukraine went through repression and uprising. it went through territorial annexation and now an outright war. it is the only country where people got shot because they wrapped themselves in the european flag. ukraine has gone through hell and high water for one simple reason: their desire to join the european union. i have read your resolution from the european parliament and thank you very much for being very clear and very explicit. and the european commission also answered to this desire explicitly. the opinion we presented last week recognises ukraine’s aspirations. it acknowledges the immense progress that ukraine’s democracy has achieved since the maidan. our opinion stems from a careful and thorough assessment of the reality on the ground. and this evidence tells us that ukraine, in the opinion of the commission, deserves a european perspective, it deserves candidate status, of course on the understanding that the country will carry out a number of further, important reforms. und in der tat, die ukraine hat bewiesen, und das schon lange vor dem krieg, dass sie auf dem richtigen weg ist. in den letzten jahren hat sie in kurzer zeit mehr reformiert als in den letzten jahrzehnten. wir wissen viel über die ukraine. dank des assoziierungsabkommens, das wir seit 2016 mit ihr haben, wissen wir, dass ungefähr 70 % aller eu-standards und -normen durch die ukraine bereits übernommen worden sind. sie nimmt an wichtigen programmen der europäischen union bereits teil, zum beispiel horizon europe oder das erfolgreiche erasmus-programm. die ukraine ist eine sehr robuste parlamentarische demokratie. sie verfügt über eine gut funktionierende verwaltung. die verwaltungsreform und vor allen dingen die dezentralisierung sind ein erfolg gewesen. das merken wir jeden tag, weil wir ja eng mit der ukraine zusammenarbeiten. und das schafft die verwaltung auf der föderalen ebene, der regionsebene und den städten und gemeinden trotz des krieges, der ein massiver stresstest natürlich auch für diese verwaltung ist. es gibt in der ukraine freie und faire wahlen. die ukraine hat, das wissen wir alle, eine sehr aktive und dynamische zivilgesellschaft, die ihre regierung zur rechenschaft einfordert. wir sehen, dass viele kleine unternehmen und vor allen dingen junge unternehmerinnen und unternehmer sich selber einen neuen raum in der wirtschaft des landes erobern. das ist gut, vor allen dingen auch, um die macht der oligarchen zurückzudrängen. die ukraine punktet zudem, wenn es um innovative start-ups und digitale wirtschaft geht. das sind alles wichtige fakten, evidenz, die wir sehen. aber zum schluss werden alle diese fortschritte erreicht, weil die menschen in der ukraine in ihren köpfen und in ihrem herzen vor allen dingen europa tragen. das ist das entscheidende. toutefois, nous savons aussi qu’un travail important reste à faire. prenons la lutte contre la corruption: l’ukraine a déjà pris des mesures essentielles dans la bonne direction. elle a mis en place les organismes anticorruption nécessaires. mais ces institutions doivent désormais prendre vie. elles ont besoin de mordant. prenons également l’influence excessive des oligarques sur l’économie: l’ukraine a adopté une loi audacieuse afin de briser l’emprise des oligarques sur la vie économique, politique et publique de l’ukraine. de fait, c’est le seul pays du partenariat oriental à l’avoir fait. alors maintenant, aujourd’hui, il s’agit de transformer cette loi en un changement positif et durable. j’ai discuté de cette question et de bien d’autres avec le président zelensky et le premier ministre, denys chmyhal, quand j’étais à kiev. ils veulent vraiment le faire et je sais que le peuple ukrainien ne souhaite rien de plus que de continuer sur le chemin de la modernisation. ils savent que c’est le chemin de la démocratie et ils savent que c’est le chemin qui mène à l’europe. mesdames et messieurs les députés, après la chute du mur de berlin, jacques delors a dit: «l’histoire a repris sa marche en europe, mais c’est à nous de donner un sens à l’histoire». jacques delors was referring to the need to open up our union to all european countries, and i think his words are still true today. history is on the march, and i’m not just talking about putin’s war of aggression. i am talking about the wind of change that is again blowing across our continent. and with their applications, ukraine, moldova and georgia are telling us that they want change. they want more democracy. they want more freedom and stronger reforms. they are telling us that they want europe. and we have the responsibility towards them, but we also have a responsibility towards ourselves to make the right choices. so, let me speak briefly about our assessment for moldova. moldova has taken decisive steps towards europe too, with a very clear mandate from its citizens. it is on a real pro—reform, anti—corruption and european path for the very first time since independence. and this is why it deserves a european perspective and european candidate status, again on the understanding that the country will carry out a number of further important reforms. in particular, its economy and public administration require major reforms and efforts. but provided that the country’s leaders stay the course – and i have no doubt about that – we believe that the country has the potential to live up to these requirements. georgia shares the same aspirations and potential as ukraine and moldova. its application has strength, in particular the market orientation of its economy, with a strong private sector. to succeed, however, the country must now come together politically. it must design a clear path towards structural reforms and towards the european union, a path that concretely sets out the necessary reforms, brings civil society on board, and benefits from broad political support. and this is why we recommend to the council to grant georgia the european perspective, but to come back and assess how the country meets a number of conditions before granting it candidate status. honourable members, how far ukraine, moldova and georgia will come and how quickly they proceed will depend, first and foremost, on their actions and their progress. it’s a merit—based approach. but how we respond to their passion and their progress is our choice and ours only. this parliament has clearly spoken, loud and audible, and i would like to thank you for that again. it is now up to the european council to decide and to live up to the historic responsibility we are confronted with. the whole history of our european union is one of young democracies getting stronger together. it’s the history of germany’s rebirth after world war two. it’s the history of greece, spain and portugal moving decisively from dictatorship to democracy in the mid—1970s. it’s the democratic uprising that brought down the iron curtain in 1990. it is the long path of reconciliation in the western balkans and, i believe, a path that must lead all six western balkan countries to join our european union. and the next chapter is being written now by the brave people of ukraine, and by all of us, who must accompany them on their european path. again, i believe it’s europe’s moment and we will seize it. long live europe.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. a fast-paced legislature that has forced us to react urgently to such brutal events as the pandemic and now the invasion of ukraine. we have a responsibility to be the protagonists of today's history so that we can decide the future of millions of europeans tomorrow. and for that we need height of vision and a lot of common sense. while we are moving forward with urgent measures, such as aid to ukraine or sanctions against russia, we must also think about our common future: what kind of union we want and what steps are necessary. this exercise began with the conference on the future of europe and has not yet ended. as happened after the fall of the berlin wall, it is time to give a new impetus to enlargement. no outsider, no dictator in his sleep, can exclude those who in their own right deserve to enter the union. but this will require not only reforms in the applicant countries, but also reforms in our own union, starting with the elimination of unanimity in foreign policy decisions. the prospect of enlargement is without doubt the most successful foreign policy of our union, because the horizon of integration is the only vaccine to overcome historical resentments between our countries and our communities, to prevent wars and promote peace. north macedonia has been a candidate country for 17 years and has been waiting 13 years to start negotiations, after having made important sacrifices in favour of the european dream. do you really think this is normal? on the other hand, albania, which has been a candidate since 2014 and has been waiting for more than four years to start negotiations. ladies and gentlemen of the council, you are damaging the image of the union when you do not keep your word to those who have been waiting a long time to join our union. we must keep our promises and send a clear message: the future of the western balkans lies in the european union. ukraine, the republic of moldova and georgia also. our commitment is clear. the road is long, but it's worth it. and they must also address the necessary reforms in all areas, in the rule of law, of course, but they must also strengthen the role of civil society and the social partners. finally, we must not forget the internal dimension of this crisis, of this war, the social and economic consequences. i said it in the last plenary session and i say it again: if we are not able to tackle inflation, to guarantee fuel and food prices, we will have a very difficult winter: in the short term, social instability and, in the long term, the rise of populism. council leaders, open your eyes. at a crucial moment in the development of the europe we want, we must not neglect the citizens. listen to what we were told at the conference on the future of europe. we play too much. - what's the extension? take care of our house?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i’m happy that the commission has taken the historical decision to propose the status of an accession candidate for ukraine and moldova, as called for by this house, and i hope that the council will also decide accordingly. the war russia is raging against ukraine, is also one against european values and is also one against european integration. and as a european family, we need to stand together. ukraine and moldova have made important steps and reforms, notably against corruption. not all is well – much remains to be done – but the progress is there and it will be given new impetus also with a candidate status. georgia, too, has european ambition that we want to support. and i would strongly encourage the georgian government not to undermine the country’s past progress and to go forward making the necessary reforms. apart from those three countries, we also need to see a clear commitment and perspective for the western balkans. these countries have all been waiting for years for any sort of progress in their accession perspective. many have made enormous reforms – north macedonia even changed its name – but are still being held in limbo and this must finally come to an end. we need a clear and reliable path to the eu for the western balkans for their own sake, but also for the growth and the strength of our union. while the countries joining have to undertake the tough task to implement reforms, it’s not only their job – the eu needs to grow with this challenge and do everything in its power to unite the union’s family and to stand up for our values. let us not let this opportunity slip away. and what ukraine has reminded us is how much drive and how much passion is behind the way towards european membership, how much energy this perspective for the future involves, how much it lifts people’s spirits. too often we who have managed to join this union forget about this kind of passion, forget about this power of hope that it holds. let us use this moment as an opportunity to bring new life into the accession process. there is much at stake, but there is also so much to win.
in the name of the id group. mr president, mr von der leyen, minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are great expectations for what will be a delicate european council, precisely because the phase we are facing at the moment is a delicate phase, not only because of the political and symbolic significance of some of the choices that will be made we hope that there will be a unanimous decision on granting ukraine the status of candidate country but also because today is the time for the european institutions to take concrete decisions in the face of an increasingly deteriorating situation facing european citizens and businesses. you, minister, spoke well and i want to focus on sanctions. the aim of the sanctions instrument is clear and it is the only weapon we have today to bring russia to the negotiating table. and you have said very well what the sanctions should be aimed at: the only thing that has to be stopped is the flow of money into russia's coffers and funding the war. if this is the goal that we share and shared at the beginning, i think the results are not entirely satisfactory and i think the impact that these sanctions have had on the price of energy is helping putin not only to fund more and more of his war, but also to use gas and energy as a weapon of blackmail. if the financial flows to russia had not been so high in these months, in these weeks, because of the price increases, russia would not have been able to cut energy resources today and also to jeopardize the plan that the european commission had presented to us to secure our winter, the supplies to enable us to take those steps forward in terms of diversifying energy resources, in terms of building new infrastructure, in terms of guaranteeing energy independence for europe. i think that this is something that needs to be considered and i think that the time has finally come for an agreement on a ceiling on energy prices, a proposal which my government has been bringing to the european table for a long time. i would like to conclude with a very important point, which is also about the concrete actions that we are asking for, that citizens are asking for from the european institutions. the economic situation is deteriorating more and more, the rise in prices, the increase in inflation are increasingly biting the ankles of european citizens and businesses. in view of the steps we are taking to protect and defend ukraine, i believe it is necessary to take concrete steps today to help european citizens and businesses get through this difficult time after two years of a pandemic that has already affected european citizens and businesses. the institutions must put forward a plan to ensure that we do not have to face another economic crisis in the coming months.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commission president, minister, there are two important aspects to the council meeting this afternoon: the first has an external valence and the second has an internal valence. as regards the action to be taken on the issues and the choices that the commission first, parliament and the council then made with regard to support for ukraine, i think it is important to reiterate here again what the clear and unambiguous position is of full support for ukraine. but to do that i think it is important, even at this hour, to read carefully putin's not accidental statements, where he indicates very clearly what the idea of the future is, that of re-proposing the boundaries that have traditionally been part of the soviet domination of the past. that is why we must support the status of ukraine. that is why, with the rules you have rightly stressed, we must also express clear and unequivocal support for georgia and moldova, because it is very important that this should happen, just as it is equally important to take careful action on the balkan question. because, as has happened and is happening in some areas of north africa, there is also a risk of infiltration in the balkans, there is a risk of interventions that must be seen with the utmost care and restraint, in order to put in place an action that can strengthen those principles of our democracy, those fundamental principles that are the basis of the action that will see us engaged in the future. the second reflection is connected to the internal dimension with regard to what is happening. i want to quote - nobody did and i am not doing this in any way for polemic, as a simple reflection point - the result of the french elections, which is a result to reflect on. it is a result which very clearly reveals a mood which is also worrying, and we must try to understand why we must put in place dynamics and interventions which are able to give clear answers, especially to those countries which, by strongly and decisively supporting the sanctions, are also suffering the economic consequences, and on this point it is necessary to give clear answers. the first, i repeat, was mentioned earlier, the ceiling and the price of gas, and the second is to look for that overall dimension, beyond positions, beyond controversy, to make choices that do not make us go from one addiction to another. because some of the issues connected with the debate and the measures we have adopted in these hours raise this issue. they raise a very serious issue, which is that we have been looking with concern at the wrong choices that have emerged since the war in ukraine, the energy dependence on russia, and that we must be careful to avoid that this leads to another dependence on other realities, in particular on china, especially in relation to the choices that are being made. this is why we need a broad and strong response, also within the european union and the member states, to carry out a policy of intervention capable of giving answers to the citizens and thus be in a position to face the season that we are facing, which will certainly not be an easy one. i think that is the approach that the european institutions should take in this area and i hope that the council can confirm what has been said and done to the commission and what the european parliament has clearly indicated in the last few days.
mr president, president von der leyen, minister, dear colleagues, we can only live in safety and security within the borders of the european union if in our immediate neighbourhood we are surrounded by countries which are safe and stable. this is why providing the european perspective to the people of ukraine, the people of moldova and the people of georgia is also in the fundamental interest of all citizens of the european union. we are now witnessing how the citizens of ukraine are defending european values. they are fighting for democracy, for freedom, for deciding their own future with the weapons in their hands if needed. we are also seeing how the people of the republic of moldova have opened their houses to ukrainian refugees. the republic of moldova is the european country that received most refugees in relation to its population. the people of moldova and the authorities have acted in a truly european spirit in the past months. president von der leyen, you did the right thing by demanding the european council to grant candidate status to ukraine and the republic of moldova. this is also the position of the european parliament. we demand the european council to follow suit, to grant candidate status to ukraine and the republic of moldova and to offer a european perspective to georgia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear to everyone that putin's attack is not limited to military aggression in ukraine, but is aimed at creating economic and political instability in europe: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the illegal import of agricultural products from the soviet union, such as the blockade of grain supplies to ukrainian ports, which is putting the countries of north africa in particular at risk of a serious food crisis with repercussions on the flow of migrants to the european mediterranean countries, and the manoeuvres on russian gas supplies, which are driving up energy prices, which in turn are driving up inflation. today credible economic interventions such as those in the country-specific recommendations can no longer be done without concerted action against expensive energy at european level. the council conclusions of may last year provided for a study of the feasibility of introducing temporary ceilings on gas import prices. but time is running out. we need to act now. the malaise of european households and businesses, squeezed by high bills, high gas prices and inflation, including in foodstuffs, is deepening. a european gas price ceiling to block such speculation would be the best answer to their difficulties and would prove once again that a united european union can make a real difference to the lives of its citizens.
mr president bless you, madam president, commissioner, mr minister, dear colleagues, europeans have every reason to be proud of and confident in the project of a united europe, guaranteeing peace, security and prosperity. our eastern partners – ukraine, moldova and georgia – have chosen and proven that they deserve the european path. we must now walk this path together and finally consolidate the victory of liberal democracy over eastern totalitarianism. i firmly believe that an independent and democratic belarus will repeat its march towards europe as well. the historic decision to grant eu candidate status to ukraine and moldova and to encourage georgia to continue on its path will reinforce the eu’s status as an important geopolitical player. let me congratulate the people of ukraine and moldova on their achievements and encourage the people of georgia to stand united and persevere in their legitimate european aspirations.
mr president, commissioner, the representative for the council is missed, also ms von der leyen has left, unfortunately. first of all, i have to say that i’m not the biggest fan of the eu, of course, as you know. but at the same time, i absolutely understand ukrainians who really are willing to move closer to the eu. if ukraine is really dreaming and really wanting to have candidate status, i think there is no question: of course, we have to give it. absolutely. i think there is likely an absolutely majority in the house also here who agrees on this. i’ve told, several times also, the ukrainians that the main goal can’t be just to be a member of the eu. the main point is to really be a successful country with a functional economy, with less corruption and to really move on the right way. then, of course, it can be also in years, membership to the eu. there’s no doubt of this. for the final sentence, many of us have all said today here that the council have to really understand that we are paying even more money now to russia, to finance the war thanks to the huge energy crisis. so what will be the plan from the eu to really have a limit for energy prices? because it’s terrible what is happening now. so i really would like to hear the answers. what is your plan?
mr president, dear colleagues, there are only two possible ways of resolving the vital security deficit of ukraine, moldova and georgia. the first one is weakening russia beyond the point where it can present a real threat. and the second one – more realistic, in my opinion – is the full integration of those three countries into the european economic and security structures. it is true that none of those three is today ready to function as a full member of the european union. so candidate status is just a first step of a much longer way. but we must be clear and sincere with regard to the final objective, which is membership. what we must not do is tell ukrainians that we support their aspirations, but then turn to our own voters, give them a wink and say that this status doesn’t mean that ukrainians are going to be full members. finally, while everyone must proceed on their own individual merit, we must not ignore the dangers of splitting the three eastern partners up at this critical juncture and therefore leaving one or two more vulnerable, because all these peoples deserve a place in europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i think we should say that since the war in ukraine energy prices and food prices are going through the roof and people struggle to make ends meet while putin is cutting off gas supplies to entire countries and capitalists make profits by speculating on markets and thereby hurting millions of households. and like i said, people making ends meet are in trouble to make ends meet while companies benefit with huge profits. so we need to have a profit windfall tax and use the profits from this tax to mitigate the social consequences of rising energy prices and inflation. we need to coordinate european action now to avoid a crisis in this winter, and i think we cannot wait until the social climate fund is in full action. we need action now. we have a european solution in the sure instruments and we need to extend this programme to help households and companies to survive the winter. i am urging the commission, the council, together with the social partners, to take the lead. please present a minimum income schemes directive as soon as possible and explore the possibilities of energy price caps for basic consumptions for households so no one is left behind. we need to be bold and we need to tackle the crisis now. hats on!
on behalf of the green group, mr president, inflation is hitting families hard. right now, rising basic costs like food and energy are drowning out lower incomes. the decisions of the european central bank, in addition to trying to curb inflation with an instrument that is not suitable for this, such as raising rates, can worsen the situation and generate a self-inflicted recession. but not everyone is suffering this impact equally. we can't deny the distributional effects that inflation is generating, because there are people and there are companies and players in the market that are making some extraordinary profits and making a great deal of business because of this situation. the international energy agency reminded us how, by 2022, energy companies have earned over 200 billion euros. or it is the same with the food sector, where the big agribusinesses have passed on the increased costs directly to the consumers. so we need to act. and action means doing it fast in some areas. first, to reiterate the european council's commitment to move towards taxation of 'fallen profits'. second, to accelerate the energy transition. that means reforming our electricity market so that the lower price of renewables can reach the electricity bill. thirdly, with a general increase in the minimum wage and social protection. and that also happens, among other things, by supporting the most vulnerable families, as the spanish government has just recently approved. fourthly, a directive on minimum incomes at european union level. we need it urgently. and fifth, curb speculation in the housing market too. and on that we are going to raise an objection to a revision of the mifid directive which we cannot share in this house. these are some of the measures to try to help the most vulnerable in the face of an impact that they are getting in a very, very dramatic way, not forgetting that there are actors in the market that are getting some magnificent benefits because of inflation.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, as the commissioner rightly said it’s a very important topic. i think it’s the most important topic before the winter. and it’s so important that in this plenary we have almost 20 meps listening to this debate. i think we have ten times more people there on the balcony, our visitors. anyway, just about inflation, about economic problems. i would like to just mention two things. first of all, we asked last year from the ecb, from the central bank of europe, how will affect their very tough green policy, green deal, the european economy. and they said very clearly, ‘yes, it will affect, it will increase inflation’, they didn’t say how much, but they said, ‘yes, it will affect’. and the same thing is mentioned several times in the speeches and in the public opinions by ms isabel schnabel. isabel schnabel, who’s a german economist, executive member of the board of the ecb and she said same things. if we are crushing this green deal forward it will affect our economy. that’s a pure fact. and if you’re looking now on the energy sector and if we imagine what will happen in few years, if we are, of course, hating so much all the nuclear power and fossil fuels and we’re just hoping for the wind and sun – i love also sun and wind, it’s amazing things – but unfortunately, it’s not enough. it’s not enough for our energy sector. it means the price will go even more up. it will much more higher. and that’s just an economical fact. so that’s why i would like to just hear your opinion today when we have war in ukraine, we have this kind of problems in energy sector and we see the result of the green deal in those first years actually. what is your opinion? what is the position of the commission? are we still going forward with, in my opinion, crazy idea, absolutely crazy idea? or are there any plans that we actually will react to the problems what we have already today? so that’s just my only small question. and if you can answer, i would be very grateful.
mr high representative, recent positive news from the ukraine battlefield – in part due to the western military equipment donations, mostly us, but also european donations, the attrition during wartime obviously is enormous, so ukraine continues to need all our donations. you mentioned the use of a clearinghouse mechanism. you mentioned the use of the european peace facility. my question is this. two questions, actually. what is your very blunt assessment, to what degree are we currently able to satisfy ukrainian needs so that they could consolidate the gains they’ve made in the battlefield? and secondly, even short of a european defence minister or a european army, can we right now do something to move beyond the role of just coordination between the member states and take on the more active role as the european union when it comes to delivering military aid to ukraine?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when i hear your discussion on the increase in energy prices, i feel as if i am witnessing a repetition of the insane management of covid. i still remember it: absurd lockdowns, inconsistent measures and social death for the unvaccinated. at least you had the excuse of having suffered this pandemic while the energy crisis, you caused and even amplified it. because it was the european union, under the presidency of emmanuel macron, which imposed blind and inappropriate sanctions on russia, mixing the legitimate with the absurd, without taking into account the warnings that the opposition, led by marine le pen, has constantly raised. this energy covid is revoltingly stupid. you block russian gas exports and then complain that we have no gas. more hypocritical still, you buy gas from the chinese three times as expensive as the russians, and our compatriots pay the price. you are irresponsible, ideologue and incompetent! today you want to introduce quotas for energy consumption. tomorrow, you'll be applying for an energy pass to monitor the consumption of our compatriots. so, you know what? because of your incompetence, the europeans could spend the winter in the cold and in the dark. and, ladies and gentlemen, we could all end up at the candle light.
madam president, a difficult winter is only for the people, not for the energy companies. the so-called 'european solution' that the european union and governments are working on is based on measures of profitability. it is a big lie that precision started with the imperialist war in ukraine. for a year now prices have been soaring because of another so-called 'european solution', the green transition, liberalisation, de-mining and energy trading, supported by all parties. the small cash benefits perpetuate energy poverty and guarantee the solvency of the groups. a greek government minister is even cynically threatening citizens that if they do not convert their boilers from natural gas to oil they will die. the answer is to intensify the fight for a drastic reduction and cap on electricity, gas and oil bills, the abolition of the special tax and vat on fuel and energy. no ordinary house without electricity. in the hands of the people, the exploitation of all energy sources, with energy as a social good and not a commodity.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the citizens are very concerned about the exorbitant rise in energy prices and they are asking us for decisiveness and unity of action. we need a determined action by the european commission and a coordinated response by the member states. we must be careful when designing fiscal mechanisms which could jeopardize investments in our energy system. moreover, at this time all sources of energy must be available. there can be no taboos in that sense. it is also necessary to limit fluctuations in the co2 emissions market and to have more flexibility to help industrial sectors. commissioner, in connection with the proposal on the limitation of revenues from renewables and nuclear, my question is: how will it be ensured that this will actually benefit consumers?
i have to say, madam president, we are not at war as a european union, but the european economy is operating under conditions dictated by war. if i look at the situation in the energy markets, we probably agree quite broadly that nothing is normal anymore. the prices are so high, ladies and gentlemen, that all those who have a furnace must consider whether they are getting their money's worth by turning it on. that goes from the bakery to the steel mill. it is right to cut profits - i welcome this proposal, madam commissioner - and to relieve consumers and businesses of the burden. but it's also right to separate the price of electricity from the price of gas. i therefore ask the commission to be courageous, to think outside the box, to make proposals that help this continent. in conclusion, a comment on mr ehler: yes, of course it is right to build up the critical infrastructure we lack so that we can help each other as european states. that's my own suggestion. i myself have suggested that at this point. but it is not an alternative to price controls and redistribution. i think they complement each other.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis is caused by a system which has been faltering for some time and the war in ukraine has only highlighted its fragility, to the detriment of the citizens and certainly not of the speculators. the european union must now provide a concrete response to help households and businesses who are being brought to their knees by the energy crisis. the commission must now ensure that fossil fuel companies stop making profits off the backs of the people. the member states are obliged to allocate the money recovered from the extra profits to the most vulnerable households and businesses. but to ensure a future for our children, we need a radical change, and that can only be achieved by accelerating the transition to renewable sources and by giving priority to energy efficiency, without looking for gas elsewhere and without investing in nuclear. there is no more time and no more money to finance expensive and environmentally unsustainable fossil fuels. the transition to 100 percent renewable energy by 2040 is technically feasible, economically sustainable, and, look at it, also cost-effective. if accelerated with urgent practices and policies, we can even accelerate to 2035.
mr. chairman of the board! since the commissioner is estonian, we still speak estonian. first of all, it's no wonder that we have an energy crisis, when the whole political trend in energy over the last two decades has been that all fossil fuels are bad, we have to shut down nuclear plants, as the germans have done with their great minds, the swedes have shut down, we shut down coal plants, and then we start hoping that the sun, wind and water will solve all our problems, which is impossible with a clean energy policy. unstable energy cannot ensure a sustainable stable economy, it is simply impossible, no country in the world relies solely on renewable energy. it's just impossible, it can be part of a big compound, but for the most part you have to have a stable energy in the economy and it can be only gas, nuclear power, coal, fuel oil in estonia, but in the last two decades we have reached a situation where our economy is basically dependent on russian gas and that is really the fault of the european commission, that is the fault of the member states, tomorrow ursula von der leyen will have to talk about how she fights for the people of europe, but she is also personally to blame for germany being in a slump and we are calling the germans' slump overnight and this problem is not being solved. now we are going to suffer for the next five to ten years because it takes seven to ten years to build new facilities and this is the fault of you in the european commission and the governments of the member states and of course the people who have elected those governments. i'm sorry to hear that.
madam president, madam president of the commission, you said that this was a battle between autocracy and democracy and you are right, this is the real fight. you recalled president sassoli's words that democracy must be renewed and you described the real threats from outside. unfortunately, you have forgotten very serious threats from within. you did not have a moment to remind us that democracies do not spy on their citizens, their politicians, their journalists, their activists and lawyers, as is the case in greece and spain. you did not have time to remind us that democracies respect the judgments of the european court of human rights and that they do not do as spain does, which does not respect 61% of the judgments. democracy will defeat authoritarianism. but it must be strengthened from within. and it's not obvious today. especially when your commissioners are photographed with the far right and refuse to receive meps who have been spied on and who have collected over a million votes.
i have to say, madam president, a package of relief for small and mediumsized enterprises, an aggressive foreign trade strategy and a law to safeguard the supply of raw materials madam president of the commission, thank you for your specific and encouraging announcements. but we must now also, as a parliament, make a statement and reject all the burdensome legislation: the directive on industrial emissions, the zero pollution package, the proposal for a soil health law, the revision of the environmental penal code, the supply chain law and, and, and. ladies and gentlemen, citizens are already facing major challenges. so they need more room to breathe. we must therefore postpone planned legislation which will impose further burdens. please check this out, everyone. i beg you to take this seriously. at least we're working on it. and also, food is getting more expensive, and at the same time the new plant protection regulation is coming. it is estimated that in germany alone, on over three million hectares, there are seven million tons less grain. that would further weaken our self-sufficiency. i therefore ask you to consider whether this proposal could not be withdrawn and revised. we need more domestic farming in these difficult times, not less.
madam president, it is a pity that mr bardella is no longer here because it takes courage to say what he said here. attacking the president of the commission, who is allegedly responsible for inflation, who is allegedly responsible for the price increase, when everyone knows that it is the war in ukraine with putin, and that they are the ones who have defended putin and sympathized with him for years... it takes a lot of guts to do that! and they're even paid, maybe? i don't know what's on the list of americans. it wouldn't surprise me if the name of mrs. le pen and the name of the national rally were on the list of americans, paid by the russians. that said, madam president, i thought there was one black hole in your speech not as big as those were discovered for the moment, but that is the absence of defense, because i really think that we are going to live in a totally new world order, with huge problems for our security. and you never know what happens if tweeting trump is returning in the us, then we will be on our own for our own security. so a defence community is an absolute necessity. we are spending today eur 240 billion on defence in europe, the same amount as china, four times more than russia. we have 130 weapons systems in europe. we have a world record of soldiers in the world 2.4 million. and we are powerless. that's at least the sentiment of most people. so my request to you is when we have a convention, and thank you for supporting it so clearly, we need to talk also by that and we need to come forward with, i shouldn't say a copy, but a draft like the treaty of paris of 1952, negotiated by adenauer, de gasperi and robert schuman. that's the way forward. don't forget it. i know. and fill the black hole, please.
madam president, ms von der leyen, dear guy verhofstadt, i would start with guy, when he mentioned that the real reason for the huge prices is putin. i have to just correct you. the price crisis started in greece six months before the war. we had problems already in the last year, in december and january, and putin was just a trigger for the real reason. and the real reason is that we have had a crazy green policy in the last two decades. we are hating fossil fuels. we are hating nuclear, like in germany. it’s a perfect idea, of course – shut down the nuclear! it’s really bad! it’s risky. let’s hope for the unstable wind and sun. it’s an amazing idea. go to sweden in january, there’s a lot of sun. it’s beautiful. it’s like in spain in summer. absolutely! a stable energy. and this is the reason why we gave the power to putin to play with us. and this is also the fault of mrs von der leyen. what did the european commission do at time when germany started to build nord stream 2? nothing. they said, ‘oh, it’s just a political thing, it’s just an economical thing’. there is no economics without politics, and that’s also your fault. you’re also responsible for the last two decades, when you didn’t invest anything in the german defence, and now you are surprised, ‘oh, we can’t help ukraine anymore, and the russians are playing with us’. that’s the real reason. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, honourable high representative, the eu has recently invested significantly in improving relations between armenia and azerbaijan, including several bilateral meetings with the prime minister of armenia and the president of azerbaijan, hosted by council president michel. at the latest such meeting merely a month ago in brussels, both sides agreed to start working on a draft peace treaty within a month. two weeks later, azerbaijan launched a large—scale military attack against armenian territory. a few days ago, a sickening video emerged on azerbaijani social media, which seems to show the execution of armenian prisoners. high representative, which consequences will you recommend to draw for the eu’s further engagement in the region? what concrete steps should you, your office and the external action service take? and finally, how can the eu’s new energy partnership with azerbaijan be put to use for the eu’s engagement in favour of a sustainable long—term settlement on the conflict?
i’d like to come to the strategic partnership memorandum that was signed with azerbaijan. many argue that the gas deal stands in defiance of the eu’s climate goals and human rights standards. high representative, i would be grateful for your assessment of that deal. thank you.
president, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, after seven months of war, the threat of escalation, even military escalation, nuclear escalation, is greater than ever. everything points to putin's desperation at the failure of his war. but, ladies and gentlemen, a desperate putin is a danger to the world. he will continue to use all means to destabilize us, to frighten us and, above all, to divide us. we're going to let that happen? or will we remain one determined european bloc as we were at the start of the war? the cold winter must not break our unity. why does the commission continue to refuse to introduce a european gas price cap? why does the council continue to allow hungary to determine the strength of our sanctions? and why is the engine of our economy still playing solo instead of opting for european solutions? on friday, european leaders will meet in an informal council. informal or not, important, big decisions have to be made. the most important thing for me is that european response to the energy crisis. we must use our european strength to the full. or as our belgian prime minister alexander de croo put it: we can't use singles now. it's time to recognize the urgency of this crisis.
mr president, dear colleagues, there are clear signs that putin is in a state of weakness in his war. he also risks to be defeated in russian society; by the chaotic and arbitrary mobilisation he dismissed the social contract with russian people. the vast majority of russians, who have until now remained indifferent to putin’s war, now have been politicised. many of them now see that the target of putin’s war is also russian people. against all odds, also, the normally obedient media is criticising the failures of putin. but, by threatening ukraine and the whole world with nuclear weapons, a point has been reached where calls for regime change are more than legitimate. they should not be any more a taboo for anyone inside nor outside russia. now we must stand by the side of the russian democratic forces, also those who have had to leave russia. they never gave up their fight for a democratic future of russia, even during the ever-growing repression. so, now is the time when we can make the change, working together with these democratic forces.
mr president, unfortunately ursula von der leyen has left, but at least we have a commissioner here. first of all, i can agree with most of you who have said in the last hour that we have to support ukraine, that russia is the aggressor. that’s absolutely true. there’s no doubt about that. but the big question is, how can we go forward? what are the next steps, what can we do for ukraine? as far as i know, we still import oil from russia. we are still paying millions of euros every day to russia. we’re still continuing this. we are still waiting for bigger military help for ukraine. i know exactly, in fact, that there is a deal to give more military support to ukraine, but there is just one signature missing: that of mr scholz, from germany. only his signature is missing to give more military support to ukraine by german companies. ok, we can blame hungary, yes, also they are pretty much wrong. sometimes we can blame some other countries, but in the meantime, we are just waiting for german chancellor to give that one signature to give more military support to ukraine. about the blackmailing that the russians are doing now, of course, now they are losing territories every day in ukraine and that’s amazing. we like this. but now they are blackmailing with nuclear power. and i can see, even in the western world, that more and more people are getting really afraid, you know, ‘maybe they are really so crazy that they would start a nuclear war’, ‘maybe they will really try to do this’. but the question is, ok, if they’re really ready to do this, it will be the suicide of russia, because finally, at the end of the day, they will lose this war even in a nuclear war. and we are not in a position to say to russia, ‘ok, let’s sit down and have diplomacy’, because russia ended diplomacy in the morning of 24 february. in this case today, we have to win in this war in every price.
mr president, dear colleagues. putin’s escalation of his war of aggression reveals russia’s strategic failure. by his mobilisation, his illegal annexation and his nuclear sabre—rattling, he is desperately trying to raise the stakes so as to scare ukrainians and their allies. but ukrainians are not going to be intimidated by putin’s bluster, and neither should we. ukrainians’ courage and resolve in defending their homeland has been amazing throughout the conflict, but the recent success on the battlefield also owes to the support they have received and continue to receive from allies in europe and elsewhere. in order to consolidate their recent gains, ukraine needs much more of our support. sure, we all want peace to come to ukraine as quickly as possible. but, to be durable and sustainable, it will have to be a just peace. in the case of this war, this means the full restoration of ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. after putin’s sham referenda and declaration of annexation of ukraine’s sovereign territory, the restoration of ukraine’s territorial integrity effectively means driving the occupiers out by force. the faster this happens, the sooner a just and durable peace returns to ukraine. yes, europe has done a lot, but now is not the time for self—congratulation, for we have done much, but not enough, whether we compare our performance to that of the americans or to our own previous commitments. we must not hesitate and we must not be afraid to give ukraine all the weapons, including tanks, that they need to successfully complete the liberation of their country. quick and decisive liberation of all ukraine’s territory is the quickest path to a lasting peace and is thus actually de—escalatory. as to those who aspire to a diplomatic approach, i would say this – yes, when the liberation of all of ukraine has been made irreversible, then we will indeed have a lot to discuss at the negotiating table, including how to make sure that all those responsible for war crimes are brought to justice, and also the issue of what needs to become of russia so that it can never again slaughter innocent people and threaten international peace.
mr. chairman of the board! my good colleagues! the last few weeks have been crucial and it may seem that the war is reaching its final stages. ukraine's victory is certain, and putin's demise is only a matter of time. but the question is when it will happen and how much more evil will putin's regime be able to do. in this context, it is more important than ever to support ukraine in all its aspects: together, in solidarity and with strength. even if it means economic hardship for our people, it's not the hell of war. for those who are hesitant, i have a suggestion. go to ukraine and talk to the ukrainians! we must not tire and we must not give in to those who talk about "peace at any cost". peace can only come on the terms that ukraine sets, and those terms were very clearly articulated by president zelensky in his speech to the un general assembly. he listed five conditions, starting with the restoration of ukraine's territorial integrity and ending with the prosecution of kremlin criminals before the international court of justice. long live the ukraine! glory to ukraine!
respected leader of the attack! disinformation is not a new phenomenon and it is regrettable that russia continues to be successful in its propaganda aimed at undermining democracy, dividing the european union and justifying the criminal war in ukraine. this can and must be addressed at all possible levels. the european union has taken a number of very good steps in the fight against russian disinformation. we have the east strategic communications task force, the new counter-misinformation code and the digital services act. but member states must also do their part to protect democracy and protect their societies. for estonia, this also means much more active interaction with the russian-speaking population: listening, explaining, convincing. a tough fall and a tough winter ahead, where, in addition to the war in ukraine, people will be affected by high electricity and food prices. the kremlin is only waiting to exploit this complicated situation and politically useful idiots among the politicians of the european union. let's not let the kremlin win the propaganda war!
the russian aggression against ukraine has had a significant impact on migration in the european union. first, the refugees from ukraine. i am pleased that the border countries of the european union, including estonia, have welcomed refugees and have offered them protection and assistance. it has been largely achieved through the efforts of volunteers and the generosity of people, but it will not be sustainable unless all the member states of the european union contribute. it is high time we all stood together in solidarity. second, the wave of migration from russia. it is very true that the european union has stopped issuing visas to russian citizens under the simplified procedure and several member states have restricted tourism from russia. i call on all member states to do so, this is not the time for russian citizens to tour the european union. and third, the use of humans as a hybrid weapon. we've seen it on the finnish-russian border in karelia and on the belarus-lithuanian border. we must be prepared for such attacks to occur again at the borders of the european union. the european union's border must be protected.
the explanations of vote for this evening have been given.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, wednesday, october 19, 2022, at 9:00 a.m. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this sitting will be sent to parliament for approval tomorrow after the votes.
in relation to the decisions by several committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations, pursuant to rule 71, paragraph 1, announced at the opening of the session on monday 17 october, i have received no request for a vote in parliament by members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold. the committees may therefore start the negotiations.
the next item on the agenda is: council and commission statements – preparation of the european council meeting of 20-21 october 2022.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, president von der leyen, honourable members, tomorrow and friday, leaders will meet in brussels for the october european council, starting with the usual exchange with european parliament president metsola. leaders will discuss russia’s escalatory war of aggression against ukraine and its consequences, including the situation in global food security or the impact on energy prices and on our economy. they will also address relations with china and with asean. less than two weeks ago, leaders met in prague for an informal european council meeting to discuss these topics and prepare the ground for the debates that will take place in brussels this week. the steep increase in energy prices touches all european citizens and businesses and is, therefore, high on the agenda of the european council. as we know, russia is weaponising energy in an attempt to weaken the resolve and economic power of the european union. we will not let this happen. building on the discussions in prague, as well as yesterday’s commission proposal, leaders will speak a strong common european response to the high gas and electricity prices. there is a broad agreement on key areas of action to lower prices, but there are still some divergences on the ‘how’, that will be for leaders to discuss. i can nonetheless already share some key messages. first, we will not allow russia’s weaponising of energy to weaken the resolve and economic power of the eu. second, key areas for action will include efforts to reduce demand, to ensure security of supply and to lower energy prices. leaders will also address the latest developments in russia’s escalating war of aggression against ukraine, which is putting european and global peace and security at risk. this includes russia’s missile attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure in kyiv and across ukraine, its actions at ukraine’s zaporizhzhia nuclear facility and the illegal annexation by russia of ukraine’s donetsk, luhansk, zaporizhzhia and kherson regions. leaders will reiterate their unwavering support for ukraine’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. ukraine has the right to liberate and regain full control of all occupied territories within its internationally recognised borders. as already stated by leaders on 30 september, the european council unequivocally condemns and rejects russia’s illegal annexation of ukraine’s donetsk, luhansk, zaporizhzhia and kherson regions. the european council will call for russia to immediately, completely and unconditionally withdraw all of its troops and military equipment from the entire territory of ukraine and refrain from hybrid attacks on ukraine. there is growing evidence of war crimes committed in ukraine. we have also seen the continuous destruction of civilian infrastructure in the country. these are gross violations of international law. leaders are expected to call for holding russia to account. as you know, the european union will stand with ukraine for as long as it takes. it will continue to provide political, military, financial and humanitarian support to ukraine. leaders are expected to call for the speedy adoption of the remaining eur 3 billion in micro-financial assistance for ukraine. ahead of the conference in berlin on 25 october 2022, the european council will discuss the governance and financing of reconstruction efforts. russia’s war of aggression has sparked a global food crisis, driving up world food and fertilisers prices. the eu will continue to facilitate the export of ukrainian agricultural products via the eu solidarity alliance and global access to agricultural products and fertilizers for the countries most in need. the european council will also discuss recent acts of sabotage against critical infrastructure, such as those against the nord stream pipelines. we will meet any deliberate disruption of critical infrastructure or other hybrid actions with a united and determined response and continue to strengthen our preparedness. rising energy prices have a big economic impact on the eu. we are committed to coordinating closely our policy responses. our priority is to protect the most vulnerable in our societies, while preserving europe’s global competitiveness and maintaining the level playing field and the integrity of the single market. another pressing crisis is climate change. the european council will discuss preparations for the upcoming cop 27 in sharm el-sheikh, and leaders are expected to stress the extreme urgency of strengthening the global response to address the climate emergency in the face of increasingly intense and frequent extreme weather events. ahead of the 15th conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in montreal, the european council will also call for the adoption of an ambitious, comprehensive and transformative post-2020 global biodiversity framework to halt and reverse biodiversity loss. in the field of external relations, leaders are expected to have a strategic discussion on china. they will also look ahead to the upcoming eu—asean commemorative summit on 14 december, which will be an opportunity to further deepen the eu’s strategic partnership with asean.
president of the commission. – madam president, dear roberta, dear minister bek, honourable members, yesterday we saw again russia’s targeted attacks against civilian infrastructure, and this is marking a new chapter in an already very cruel war. the international order is very clear. these are war crimes, targeted attacks on civilian infrastructure, with a clear aim to cut off men, women, children from water, electricity and heating with the winter coming – these are acts of pure terror, and we have to call it as such. this is a moment to stay the course, and we will back ukraine for as long as it takes. and we will protect europeans from the other war that putin is waging – this is his war on our energy. i know that europeans are concerned: concerned about inflation, concerned about their energy bills, concerned about the winter. the best response to putin’s gas blackmail is european solidarity and european unity. and in this spirit, the commission agreed yesterday on a strong legislative framework to address the energy crisis. so let me outline the main points to you. the first one is as logical as important. instead of outbidding each other, europeans should buy gas together, very simple. so for this, we will purchase together gas at eu level. aggregation of demand will be mandatory for at least 15% of the volumes needed to fill gas storages. and the companies involved may form a ‘gas purchasing consortium’. we do this because we’ve learned the lesson. we literally saw in august of this year, at the height of the filling season, how member states were outbidding each other and thus driving really up the prices. so we definitely can be smarter on that one. pooling our demand is a must. my next point is about sharing gas in europe. we know that some member states are more directly exposed than others to russian gas. the situation is especially challenging for landlocked countries in central europe. but in the end, if you look at our single market with highly integrated supply chains, a disruption in one member state has a massive impact on all member states. so sharing gas is absolutely critical. member states have already, since five years, an obligation under eu law to conclude solidarity agreements with their neighbours in the region where they are located. however, if you look at what has been concluded so far, of 40 possible solidarity agreements, only six have been concluded. so this is simply not enough in times of a crisis like this one. and this is why we will put in place default rules for member states. these rules will be binding as long as member states do not conclude individual solidarity agreements. energy solidarity is a fundamental principle of our treaties, so let’s bring that to life. it is very simple. honourable members, these three measures – pooling, saving, sharing – will have a positive impact on the prices. but of course more needs to be done. more needs to be done to address the price spikes and to address the russian manipulation of the energy market. just to give you two figures: compared to september 2021, if we look now at september 2022, russia has cut 80% of its pipeline gas supplies since then. but europe has been able to compensate all that. we have diversified towards our trusted partners, like, for example, norway and the united states. we have increased the savings, and it is good — we have in september a saving of -15%. we have filled our storages up to 92%. so we did not give in to this blackmail. we made it. and i think we can be proud of that. we resisted – that’s important. but we also see that resisting the russian energy coercion comes at a price. european families have seen their gas bills skyrocketing. and our companies are struggling to keep up competitiveness. it is not about the competitive in the single market only – that’s also important – but it is also about the competitiveness globally that our companies are fighting for. you might recall that in march we proposed to the council the option to cap gas prices. at that time, this did not gain any traction. but today we’re coming back to this. so what is the model? the current benchmark determining gas prices is ttf. ttf is only focused on pipeline gas. what we see now is that the market has really changed from a pipeline gas market to an lng market, so we need a new a specific price benchmark for lng. the commission will now develop this complementary benchmark together with the european regulator, but this takes time. so in the meantime, as a stopgap measure, we will limit prices at ttf. we call this the market correction mechanism. yesterday, we proposed guiding principles as a first step, and on this basis, we will prepare the operational mechanism in a second step. this is concerning the price cap at wholesale level. but gas also drives electricity prices up, and here the iberian model comes into play. it really merits to be considered at eu level. there are still questions to be answered, but i want to leave no stone unturned. so let’s face that, let’s look at that and let’s work at that. honourable members, we live in times of high economic uncertainty. and i am, as i said, concerned about the competitiveness of our economy, not only where the single market is concerned, but also where the global competitiveness of our economy is concerned. so all our actions have to take this into account. all our actions have to take the competitiveness of our smes and our industry into account. and this includes that we will introduce a standard competitiveness—check in our regulation. i think it is time to do that. in addition, we have to speed up investments all over europe. and if i speak about investment, it is infrastructure, it is energy efficiency and it is renewables. and this brings me to repowereu. when we proposed repowereu in march, keep in mind the situation was as such: there was a huge dependency on russian gas. at that time, we anticipated that it would take several years to replace the russian gas. fact is, today it took us eight months only to replace two thirds. in other words, we have massively accelerated the diversification to other suppliers of gas from abroad. but this comes at a high price. so the actual solution to maintain our competitiveness is to invest into home—grown sources of energy, especially renewables. and that has to happen in all of europe. however, only member states with sufficient fiscal space can undertake these critical investments. so this will inevitably unlevel the playing field of our single market. therefore, we do not only need repowereu now, so we have to accelerate it, but we have to boost it. we have to increase its firepower and we will come with a proposal on that because it will give every member state the same opportunity to prepare for the future. this is not only about energy. this is about our global competitiveness and it is about our sovereignty. long live europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, president von der leyen, mr bek, on monday morning, russia attacked kyiv again with nearly 30 drones, killing innocents, including a pregnant woman. this happened only days after putin said there would be no more massive strikes on ukraine. not a day goes by without terrible news and lies from putin and his regime. having all victims in mind, we are not getting tired in saying putin is a war criminal, putin must lose, and europe will never stop supporting ukraine. never. this message unites us. we know how to answer the military war against ukraine and the ukraine soldiers are the real heroes of today. we have an answer to the military challenge, but let’s be honest, we don’t have currently a common understanding how to answer the energy war against the european union. this week’s european council cannot anymore escape. we had a lost summer, a prague summit without conclusions, a lot of talks. now we need solutions and the list of challenges is obviously long. our commission president presented them. we have wasted already enough time. and after a summer of missed opportunities, we need now a winter of solutions, a winter of actions, and we need, first of all, a winter of solidarity. and we, the epp, we are asking for an ambitious approach. energy was one of the founding elements of the european union. just think about the european coal and steel community and the european atomic energy community. for our founding fathers, de gasperi, schuman and adenauer, it was crystal clear: europe needs energy and only together we can make it. is it easy? was it easy for adenauer and de gasperi to combine the coal industry? not at all. it was historic what they did. and today we are occupied by the details of the electricity market architecture. the french president tells us a gas connection to spain is not necessary. and the german chancellor today is totally happy that he prolonged the work of one nuclear power plant for another three months. wow. great result of the energy planning there. we risk to fail in the eyes of history, dear friends. europe has much energy, if we create a real energy union, and that’s why my group is supporting the proposals from the european commission. and i want to ask the european socialists and greens to help us, especially in berlin. remember the last big crisis? it was about covid. chancellor merkel, epp, made the proposal of a recovery plan together with other friends. she made the proposal together with the commission to make a european procurement on vaccines. she did it the european way. and now, today, chancellor scholz and the german government are spending eur 200 billion without even asking and consulting the european commission and the neighbours about the impact of this. is this the european way? i would call it a national ego trip, if i see the results of this. where is the european spirit of the social democrats and the greens in germany? we need a european answer. that is what we need. europe needs more the merkel approach and less the scholz approach, if i may say it as an epp speaker, more epp and less socialists. and, dear colleagues, let me also mention another undiscussed crisis in front of us. europe again is challenged by migration. the balkan route is open again. until september 2022, frontex averted more than 200 000 illegal entries in the territory of the european union, half of them on the western balkan route. this is the highest figure since 2016 and we all know what happened in 2015 and 16. we must strengthen frontex. their officers on the ground must know that we count on them, we support them. and we have to deliver on the legislative files. the czech presidency – imagine for a second – the czech presidency, after years of waiting for the council, is now ready to start the trilogue. council is ready for the trilogue on eurodac, on other files on the legislative train, and we as parliament are not capable to deliver for the moment, due to, i must say, the ideological behaviour of some parts of this house, that we are not ready to even agree on very technical files like eurodac. so, dear friends, if you want to stop populism, then we have to give a legislative answer on migration and it is now the time to do so. and finally, a third point. sometimes the european level is, i have to say this, too far away from our citizens. when we speak with smes currently, when we speak with our farmers, they have really a lot of pressure. our farmers should produce food, should deliver food even on a global level. next year we will have even more problems. after the energy crisis, we will arrive at a food crisis and the commission, under the lead of frans timmermans, is now presenting new legislation, for example, on pesticides. and the impact assessment tells us that this will lead to 20% less food production in europe. that is what the impact assessment tells us, which means that we have to import more food from africa, from south america, at the cost of the most vulnerable. shall we remind everyone that we are in wartime? since 24 february, something happens. some commissioners behaving as nothing has happened. the machinery is simply continuing their work. and as epp, we are asking really urgently for a legislative emergency brake for additional burdens for our farmers and for our smes. madam president, it is good that you postponed, for example, in the commission work programme, the idea of a reach revision. that is a good thing. we asked for this and now it is part of the commission work programme. but we as epp, we think that is not enough. the commission must understand that we are risking to lose our industry. we are in front of a recession and that’s why it’s great that you expressed today that we have to care about competitiveness, we have to create jobs again in the european union. commission must act now. we must together act now. so let’s go to brussels today and tomorrow and let’s deliver binding energy solidarity, real energy market in europe, and a moratorium for additional burden.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, this week we have again awakened in horror after the incessant storm of russian missiles that hit several cities in ukraine: innocent civilians killed in the center of kiev, missiles hitting children's areas, terror and suffering. that is the true face of putin's cruelty and callousness. this is their new strategy of terror that we must not get used to. ladies and gentlemen, this week the european council will have to deal with many of the consequences and challenges of this war, which is also an offensive against europe. a blackmailing offensive that seeks to divide the citizenry, that wants to exasperate us, threaten our industry and sow social discontent. the european union needs a strong response, with strengthened social measures and a new instrument to protect the most vulnerable sectors, to help them cope with high inflation and the rising cost of living. that is why it is also necessary for the union to implement a solidarity mechanism to redistribute the exorbitant and unfair profits of the energy companies and to tackle this unacceptable situation of speculation. but this will not be enough if we don't address energy prices or energy supply, because to win this war we have to make progress on energy self-sufficiency. the measures presented by the commission yesterday are positive but not ambitious. first, we must act quickly to decouple the price of gas from electricity. president von der leyen herself has spoken of the iberian exception, which can be extended to the whole of the union, but we must do so immediately. secondly, we must move forward with determination to bring down the prices of imported gas. the proposal submitted is short on time, three months, and imprecise in its criteria. thirdly, a joint mechanism for the purchase of energy at lower prices must be established and the european parliament must be involved in the negotiations. the restrictive interpretation of article 122 is not warranted, ladies and gentlemen. this is unacceptable. parliament must be involved in the negotiations and we ask the commission to correct this. if we did it with covid-19 vaccines, why aren't we doing it now? of course we can. look, this week the leaders of europe are going to have no choice but to agree how to move forward. we cannot copy and paste the advice of march and june. we need to put in place strong measures and an immediate timetable. finally, this will be the last meeting at which italy will be represented by mario draghi. we know the reasons, and the european people's party in particular knows them. mr weber and mr berlusconi reiterate that forza italia will be the guarantee of a pro-european, atlanticist government which defends the values of the union. let me question that. forza italia has gone from being the pillar of the centre-right in italy to the crutch of post-fascism. and let me question that in terms of the new majorities. mr. weber, the presidency of the senate is held by ignazio benito la russa, a nostalgic of the "fascist twentieth century". he's now the second highest authority in the state. the presidency of the chamber of deputies is held by the anti-abortion pro-putin, lorenzo fontana, eurosceptic, homophobe and well known in this chamber. he's now the third highest authority in the state. you speak of the nostalgia of the merkel days, mr weber. in merkel's time there were no alliances with the far right. let me question what the people's party says it's going to guarantee. the great challenge at this moment is unity in europe. mr. weber, i'm reaching out to you again. it is a return to the way we built the pro-european political forces.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, madam commission president, mr minister, dear colleagues, i was born in 1987, two years before the fall of the berlin wall. my childhood and my youth were marked by an expansion of freedoms. walls and borders fell, in 2004 we celebrated the eastern enlargement of the european union. and over the last three decades, we strengthened the rights and freedoms of hundreds of millions of citizens through eu law. i grew up with a sense of self-evidence that everybody can clearly see that democracy obviously is the best form of government, that through education, public discourse and finding compromise, we will build stronger, more resilient and more equal democratic societies, and that this would work almost automatically. and i must admit, this sense of self-evidence is gone. latest, on 24 february this year: everyone could clearly see there is a brutal, a violent and a powerful authoritarian backlash ongoing, a backlash against democracy, against freedom and against equality. now you could argue we have to stand with ukraine in this brutal aggression for the sake of the brave ukrainian people, and we certainly do. but it goes far beyond this. we have to stand with ukraine also for our own sake, for our own freedom and our own democracy, because we have seen in the past weeks and months, light as day, that our democracies are not untouchable. and vladimir putin very well knows this, this is why he’s funding the far-right. this is why he is using energy as a weapon against us. and this is why he’s using every single opportunity to try to divide us. and it is true that his initial strategy of dividing europe, the west and all democratic countries who believe in a rules-based world order did not succeed. we reacted unitedly. we provided military aid to ukraine. we adopted sanctions. we, finally, took very much needed measures to end our toxic dependence on russian energy imports. but, colleagues, politics is not a sprint; politics is a marathon. and we all know putin’s game plan right now: doing whatever it takes to spread fear to destabilise our democracies in ukraine with state terrorism, drone and missile strikes on cities and in the rest of europe by trying to fuel the fear of energy shortages and an explosion of prices. and as it looks also for this, he is using whatever means necessary, whatever means necessary to create social hardships and divisions in our societies. and, madam commission president, a dynamic price cap on gas will not be enough to counter these injustices. we will need a bold and determined commission also on tax and social issues, not to let the most vulnerable in our societies pay the price for this. but he will also use whatever means necessary, threatening a global famine which will have to be prevented. but if you believe that food sovereignty can be achieved by agro-industries dependent on energy-intensive fertilisers or a global food system where massive amounts of crops are simply wasted in intensive livestock farming, you are wrong. we have to build a truly ecological, sustainable agricultural system that is also part of our commitment to the paris goals. and for all of this, and i’m very happy that we seem to have large unity, we will need a new common effort as europeans. just as with next generation eu, we will need to invest together a european solidarity fund with common balance to invest in through the renovation wave and the expansion of renewables, to counter putin’s escalation strategy, to become less dependent on autocratic regimes for our energy supply. and i’m not only talking about russia here, because also azerbaijan is not a democracy, to fund the necessary measures to tackle climate change and to protect our citizens from economic and social hits because social equality is essential for democracy. colleagues, my nephew was born in 2021, i want us to fight for a europe in which his childhood and his youth will again be marked by an expansion of freedom, by more rights and a strengthening of democracy. i’m standing in front of you today as the newly elected co-chair of the greens/efa group here in the parliament but i want to appeal to all democrats in this house. the next months are not going to be easy, we will all have to make difficult choices. but let us work together as pro-european democrats and not be taken hostage or collaborate with the far-right. and especially to you, mr weber, because at the end of the day, what this is going to mean is that vladimir putin will win. he will win the division and weakness of a far-right in europe instead of the stability and the strength of pro-european democracy. so let us work together, stand up to vladimir putin and draw a strong european union for strong democracy.
in the name of the id group. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the results of the negotiations on the new agreement. i was wondering, after hearing some of my colleagues speak earlier, what those who have seen the beginning of this debate today might think of european unity. we talk about it a lot, but then we are the first to give the impression, for trivial and unjustified reasons, of a divided europe. think about that when you make certain attacks and have more respect, you who stand up for democracy, for those who have a different idea, for those who have democratically chosen a government. italians are perfectly capable of choosing for themselves, stop it. if i were in the socialist leadership, i would worry that the first leader to pay homage to the chinese dictator would be a socialist leader, the german chancellor scholz. so think about that before you lecture others on democracy. as regards the next council and the package announced by the european commission, before i analyse this, let me take a moment to remember, to pray for the ukrainian citizens who, once again, have perished in the face of a criminal attack, an unjustified attack. we must continue to guarantee our support to ensure that this war ends as soon as possible and ends with a victorious ukraine. the package is still a package, of course, and we are waiting for the member states to give their green light, but let me say, mr von der leyen, that this package is far from sufficient and i will try to explain to you why we do not think it is sufficient. the first reason is that we feel we have even taken a few steps backwards compared with what you announced two weeks ago when you came to this chamber. it is a package which, it is true, contains a proposal on the price cap - you mentioned it, we have been talking about it since march and today there is finally something on the table - but it is a price cap which, as it has been structured, will hardly be put into effect, provided that there is then consensus in the council and among the member states to take it forward. solidarity, which is a very important element, will be a very important element not only to face the winter, but to face the next year which will perhaps be even more difficult. it is also a solidarity in purchasing, which is important, but it is rightly aimed at protecting small states which, on their own, in a competitive market, could not do it, but will do little to secure purchases, in a market which in 2023 will be even more competitive and the competition will not only be within us, but will be above all with asian buyers. the protection of the competitiveness of our enterprises is a huge issue, one which also concerns industrial policy. and then, i'll close with two points. the first: the relevant part of this package is the reuse of the 2014-2020 cohesion funds. it's 40 billion, so it's small compared to the size of the problem, but it's the most relevant part. i think the commission should also make a statement on the 2021-2027 budget. there's an emergency today. it is true that the european budget is structured differently, but in the face of the emergency we must also respond with the 2021-2027 budget. and then, i'll close with a point: what we can really do, and what the european union can do, is sit down with our partners, with our nato allies, who are making money off of the european people today, and speak out. the united states, canada, norway are now making six or seven times the normal price on the gas they send us. i believe that if the european union wants to do something concrete, it must sit down and talk clearly with all the partners, we must make an agreement to block the price of the gas you send us, otherwise the european union will no longer be able to guarantee the same support to ukraine that we have guaranteed until now.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the commission is not prepared to accept this. the problems we are discussing here have been the same for many months. people are sobbing under the exploding prices of energy and food. but instead of making a quick fix, the heads of government have been fighting for months in the council, and the commission has so far been more reluctant and lacking in proposals. this is especially fatal for those people who do not know how to pay their bills. this is fatal for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are suffering from high costs and do not know how to maintain production and are threatened with bankruptcy. this is also fatal for the craft industry, for the bakery, for the carpenter in the kiosk, because the prices of grain and wood have multiplied in recent months, and people simply do not know how to get their businesses through the crisis. the european union must now finally get its act together and find the courage to tackle the energy market failure with bold policies. yes, mrs von der leyen, 15 percent of the gas purchased together, i think is a step in the right direction. but the question is, seriously, why not 100 percent? why not do some shopping together that really fills the stores? why not a european gas price cap which provides and protects private households, craft industries and small and mediumsized enterprises with a low basic quota? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr weber, the five richest families in germany have the same wealth as the bottom half of the population. there is an inequality like in the days of emperor wilhelm. these are clearly symptoms of a sick society at this point. no, we don't need less, we need more socialism, and we definitely need less market ideology. to heal society, we need to shift now towards social justice and climate change. if we do not, then the authoritarian forces will end up pushing europe into a new fascism. european solidarity is the key. we need a european act of strength to help all the countries affected by the crisis. we need the targeted support of industry, small and mediumsized enterprises and craft firms. we also need the re-launch of the sure short-time working programme to ensure jobs in the energy crisis. we need to invest now in the future to protect the climate and to get our society out of fossil fuel dependence as soon as possible. this is also one of the measures, ladies and gentlemen, to defuse putin's terrible war of aggression and force him to the negotiating table, namely to make it clear to him that there is a clear, strong political answer to the blackmail at the gas tap, which is: we do not need your gas because we are investing in the future and in the climate. we demand an immediate end to the russian war of aggression and the withdrawal of russian troops from ukraine. we need to get out of the spiral of escalation. the united nations must be enabled to bring about a lasting peace. unfortunately, european foreign policy is not the best mediator on this issue, because in brussels they are always working on new sanctions packages and arms deliveries, but never on a peace plan. mrs von der leyen, you are no longer the german minister for defence, you are the president of the european commission. please return your focus to diplomacy to lead this continent to a secure future.
madam president, commission president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing an unprecedented energy crisis. in the 21st century, energy is as important as air, because all aspects of human life are controlled by energy. so do not delay, but take action as soon as possible. so i'll just go straight to the proposals. ladies and gentlemen, the energy supply is easily monopolized. some energy companies are not growing their profits by a percentage, but sometimes. it seems absurd and socially unfair that when energy prices were quite low compared to today, green energy was subsidized with taxpayers' money, and now the same taxpayers have to charge them for the profits by paying double or even triple the cost. we also need to talk about real solidarity between the countries of the european union and even america. this is the cost of producing energy sources such as coal, gas, oil and their products. solar or wind energy is not expensive and should not be sold at a multiple of the price. i call on the european commission and the council to establish a regulation that strictly regulates the activities of energy-related companies and that their profits do not exceed 15 or 20 percent. the conditions for liberalisation must also be reviewed, as there is clearly a pattern of futures purchases and subsequent unjustified price increases in some of the affiliated companies.
president, putin's war is being fought on several fronts. the most inhuman of course in ukraine itself, but also in our national parliaments, where there are useful idiots those few, that handful of parliamentarians spraying putin's poison. and then there's our energy market, where gas is being weaponized. the moment the market stops functioning, the government must intervene. the eu and the commission in particular, has already put forward several instruments to this end, such as the taxation of profits of energy companies. in the netherlands, this is used to pay for the support for energy-intensive smes such as bakers. now there is a new package, focused on joint gas purchasing, addressing price spikes and organizing mutual solidarity in emergencies. there's one element missing from the last one. solidarity also entails responsibility. responsibility to do everything possible to keep your own energy production up to date. in this context, the german decision to keep the three nuclear power stations open for a little longer is of course welcome. but this will be too short, because in april 2023 we are just in the perhaps even more difficult phase of filling the gas reserves for 2023/2024. we know that may be even more difficult than the current assignment. that's why i say: let's keep that self-generation open a little longer and make sure you take responsibility before you demand solidarity from others.
madam president, for a growing number of europeans, making ends meet is becoming a real headache. it is no longer simply paying skyrocketing energy bills, it is also dealing with a shopping cart, with climbing food prices and facing mortgage repayments as rates soar. putin now has to use energy as a weapon against our economy, and we should have been prepared for that. but we weren’t, we chose to be shackled to putin’s gas and at the next european council you will again have to discuss how to deal with the ongoing energy crisis. but beyond discussions, it’s time to take decisions. time passes, social concern grows and winter is approaching. yes, we will need to reduce demand while ensuring security of supply, but we will also have to take courageous decisions to contain energy prices. joint purchases won’t be enough. we need to both cap gas prices for a longer time and decouple them from electricity prices. we need to impose windfall taxes on the energy companies, and all this without reneging on our climate goals, whether for 2030 or 2050. we have to stay true to our commitments: phasing out fossil fuels – not just russian ones – and speeding up renewables. and finally, if each member state does its own thing, if only the states with the greatest fiscal margin can afford to implement powerful social shields, then we will deepen again territorial inequalities. we need coherent and coordinated action at eu level. we need solidarity and we need the european commission to take the lead. yesterday’s proposals are welcome, but we will need to show much more determination.
madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, first of all, i agree, of course, most of you were saying that we have to help ukraine, russia has to lose, there’s no clue. you’re absolutely right. also to comment, some socialist friends who are blaming about the elections in italy, i have to say that they are a free democracy also in italy and the people can choose whoever they want to, like it or not. and democracy can be like all different ways. they can choose from the right wing, from the left wing, and it can’t be controlled, that it is a right democracy only if the socialists are winning. and also for the good colleague from germany, i have to remind that, unfortunately, greens were together in the government in germany with socialists, and that was your political choice to depend more and more on russian gas. and that’s the result now why we are in the problem. that’s your choice. you were together on the 20s, together with the socialists, also with gerhard schröder in the government, and now we know that he was a russian puppet. so don’t blame our far right here, because, you know, i am also for you far right, but i’m the most anti-russian guy also, here in this house. i’m conservative, i’m normal conservative, but you’re also like the left wing. i don’t like the left wing. i like normal conservative values, and i’m very different from you, but about the russia policy, i am the most anti-russian guy here, just to answer for you. but about now the crisis, what we will see in this winter, the problem is that we can’t win two wars at the same time – the war against russia and a war against so-called climate change. because the plans now from the commission, what it is like, just to hope for the renewable energy, it means that for the sun and wind, the problem is that it will not work in the short term, probably also not in the long term. so the problem is that we really need to support the nuclear energy. we really need to support like the normal energy technologies that we have, that we have used, to secure our own companies, our own people in europe for this winter or for the next winters. that’s the only solution for how to save our economy in europe and how to win russia.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, stability and security in the broader middle east is critical for global security. and on the other hand, instability and ongoing inter-state conflicts in the region have a negative spill-over effect for security and stability in all regions in the world, including europe. in this light, i want to welcome the commission’s strategic initiatives with regard to the mediterranean and the gulf. the joint communication on the strategic partnership with the gulf rightly focuses on a number of key policy areas from global security to energy security to climate change and clean transition. but i would like to highlight one thing. while our cooperation with regional actors seeks to resolve the outstanding conflicts both within and between states, with a very strong focus on sustainable human security and protection of human rights and the respect of international law, there are other outside actors whose interference in conflicts in the region is driven by far more sinister motives. therefore, at this very moment, when the rules-based international order is being challenged by russia’s unprovoked and unjustified war of aggression against ukraine, a truly strategic partnership for the middle east is only possible through alignment on this critical issue. a couple of examples: while the eu’s iran policy and our support for upholding the jcp way is driven and continues to be driven by the need and our determination to keep nuclear weapons out of the hands of the tehran regime, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that this regime is today supporting russian aggressors in ukraine with attack drones that are being used to destroy critical civilian infrastructure, or to the fact that the same regime is brutally cracking down civil unrest at home. also, for years, russia has been supporting bashar al-assad’s murderous regime in syria, both directly as well as through its proxies, notably the so-called wagner group, a terrorist organisation that is today also killing innocent people in ukraine. or on a different front, while the many members of the upper class may have had legitimate and self-interested reasons for the recent decision to cut positive action, it is clear that the decision also works in the interests of russia and helps to fill its war chest. so while we absolutely need to pursue a strategic partnership, mutually beneficial strategic partnerships with the broader middle east and have a big stake in helping to maintain stability in the region, our efforts must be guided by our commitment to preserving and strengthening the rules based international order and limiting the influence of those actors who want to destroy it.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, tonino picula, for this timely and comprehensive report. i fully agree that enlargement is the most effective eu policy instrument and one of the union’s most successful policies. it was so in 2004 – when my country, estonia, acceded to the eu – and is even more today, when after russian aggression eu membership has become a hope and guarantor of survival and independence for some of our eastern partners. it is our political and moral duty not to let down the states that see their future in the eu. it does not mean lowering of eu standards. on the contrary, the copenhagen criteria are and should remain the cornerstone of enlargement. but there are steps that we have to take on our part, including comprehensive reflection on enlargement policy, overcoming current political impasses and enlargement fatigue. only then can we ensure the continuity, consistency and credibility of the eu enlargement policy, and that is what our citizens and partners want.
mr president, commissioner, in your speech, you mentioned that we need a long—term solution and sustainable framework for migration policy. and in some ways i agree with that. absolutely. but now is the question about solutions and the ways how we can go. the first point, what we haven’t done is how to guarantee the external borders of the third countries in the middle east and northern africa to guarantee that there will be zero boats that will sink and there will be zero deaths on the mediterranean sea. that’s the first thing. and to take away the resources for the human traffickers. the second thing, european taxpayers are paying millions of euros every year for frontex to guarantee the external borders of the eu, and that’s their work to do, to guarantee that our borders are protected. and the third point is how to help the people who need international protection, who are really refugees, who are escaping from the war. and in this case, i would never say, but i agree with the social democrats from denmark: very good solution. to screen and to have a background. amazing idea. and if you need a good example of the migration policy, and i think you know it very well, how in lithuania and poland we’re dealing with illegal migration. and last year in december, where they had thousands of migrants from iraq who had just both the tickets to belarus and tried to enter the eu. and they said, no, the border is closed. you are not refugees, you’re illegal migrants who are tried to enter the eu and there is no right for that. and in three weeks the problem was solved. absolutely solved. and of course, if we really need solidarity and if you’re so open minded and with open hearts, please open your doors. you can how many migrants you want in your own home. please show really good solidarity for the european nations.
mr. chairman of the board! commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as many of you as are in this room. first of all, of course, we have to commend the belgian police for a very good job. to find 600 000 euros in plastic bags or shopping bags in the offices of the european parliament is of course a considerable task. but i fear that this may be the tip of the iceberg, that five or six social democrat mps are involved in corruption in qatar, and i think there is a lot more information to come out of this. but corruption has always been a problem, and unfortunately, it always will be, and it always has to be fought. the same is true of the corrupt activities of the president of the european commission. i would remind you that parliament has also expressed its dissatisfaction with the fact that commission president von der leyen was able to delete hundreds of whatsapp text messages with the ceo of pfizer before the transaction whereby the european union will buy 1.9 billion doses of vaccine worth some 35 billion euros of taxpayers' money. and when they asked where the messages were, the messages were gone. i can tell you that it is possible to restore these messages using computer technology, but unfortunately the european commission has decided to hide it and to put it under the carpet. and here is where parliament comes in: if we really want to fight corruption, it has to be listed, as ombudsman emily o'reilly has said, that such secrecy is unacceptable because otherwise it looks and smells like real corruption. otherwise, we are here, or rather you are here, together with the european commission, the biggest corrupt people in the whole european union. we have to deal with this.
rapporteur. – mr president, colleagues, even as a potential candidate country, georgia today offers a very mixed picture. the signals coming out of the country are also very mixed, but i will try to start on a positive note. as an associated country, georgia enjoys an exceptionally privileged partnership with the eu. i believe that full implementation of the association agreement and the dcfta will continue to be the best way to develop georgia’s economy and improve the welfare of its people. moreover, we know that georgians’ ambitions do not end with the implementation of the agreement and the dcfta, indeed georgia’s quest to join the union enjoys overwhelming support among the population of the country. this overwhelming support for georgia’s european future should allow the country’s political parties to come together, overcome their differences and dislikes, and work across the aisle towards a truly national goal. so it should be. in some policy areas indeed impressive reforms have taken place over the years. when it comes, for example, to the approximation of the national legislation with the eu acquis, georgia continues to be a frontrunner among the aspirants in the eu’s eastern neighbourhood. however, when it comes to demonstrating the ability of georgia’s democratic structures and the country’s sustainable commitment to certain key european values, the narrow party political considerations and personal antagonisms of individual strongmen still seem to take priority over strategic national objectives. such a toxic political culture could prove detrimental not only to georgia’s european aspirations, but to the nation’s long-term security and prosperity as a whole. the eu and the european parliament continue to stand ready to assist and advise georgian authorities on how to successfully deliver on the legitimate aspirations of the georgian people. the 12 priorities identified by the commission as a precondition for achieving eu candidate status should be seen as a helping hand, and georgian authorities should seek to make the best use of it. during the past months, the georgian parliament and government have taken serious steps to address some of the commission’s recommendations. however, the recommendations that lie at the core of the political polarisation still appear elusive. the policy areas where much more tangible progress is needed include the next phase of the judicial reform. very little has happened here. the fight against corruption, ensuring media freedom, eliminating the excessive influence of vested interests, or the so-called oligarchs, as well as protecting minority rights. none of these can be resolved by the quick adoption of a single piece of legislation by a narrow parliamentary majority. rather, they require a systemic implementation of complex reforms which can only be successful if the political opposition and civil society are genuinely involved in the process. one particular case we are carefully following is the election of the new public defender. i would like to commend how the process has been conducted so far, but i would also like to stress that in the end, the result is as important as the process. therefore, an inclusive and transparent selection process has to result in the election of a truly independent and professional ombudsperson who has the full confidence of civil society. let me refer to one of the very last statements by the now former public defender, nino lomjaria, regarding the court case and indictment of nika gvaramia. the statement said that the case lacks justification and does not correspond to the fundamental principles of criminal law. as such, the statement points to a number of key problem areas in georgia today – the independence of the judiciary, media freedom, as well as the need for an independent public defender. another outstanding issue, which is becoming more urgent by the day, is the fate of former president mikheil saakashvili. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed our concern over the issue and has called for mr saakashvili’s prison sentence to be deferred, so as to allow him to seek medical treatment abroad. in the light of recent alarming reports, and as mr saakashvili’s health continues to deteriorate, the issue is becoming more urgent by day. i am fully aware that in georgia, the legacy of the former president continues to be an extremely divisive issue. so what i would like to say very clearly is that we see his release as a purely humanitarian issue, and our call does not express legal, political or any other assessment regarding his case. last, regarding the ongoing russian war against ukraine, i appreciate georgia’s clear position in various international fora, notably the un. but georgia has consistently voted with the eu to condemn russia’s unprovoked aggression and crimes against ukrainian people. at the same time, i am deeply concerned about the rhetoric of some georgian political leaders who accuse the european union and our partners of wanting to drag georgia into the war. these accusations are blatantly wrong. the eu has consistently supported and will continue to support georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. the eu is a peace project, and georgia will never have to choose between europe and peace. indeed, choosing europe means choosing peace. to my colleagues at the ep, i want to say that while we absolutely need to make sure that our would-be members progressively align with our common foreign and security policy instruments, and that the sanctions we have imposed on the aggressor are not evaded by third countries, we must always diligently follow the facts rather than our suspicions or insinuations. i believe that georgia’s vital place is in europe, but it’s for the georgian politicians to deliver.
mr president, dear colleagues, i have listened, mr bek, to the long list of items that you will discuss tomorrow and after tomorrow in the council, but i have to tell you the most important items were not there. that is, in my opinion, the sanctions and the weapons that ukraine needs to end this war the fastest as possible. you can all talk about price caps on oil and gas, but the best way to end the energy crisis is to end the war. for that, ukraine needs to win the war. there, for the moment, what we see is that weak sanctions create weak results. it’s ten months and what we see is an escalation of brutality of russia in ukraine – rape, genocide, deportations of children in that country. so what i want and expect of the european council is that, first of all, you start a decision to give more weapons. these discussions about patriots, about leopards, of the european governments is a scandal! you need to send them, to transfer them to ukraine so that they can win the war. the second item is on sanctions – there are still, dear colleagues, 11 oligarchs of the most important oligarchs not on the list of sanctions in europe. in total, after the ninth package – remember you are already on the ninth package – there will be 1 400, 1 500 or maybe 1 600 on the sanction list and, in total, there are 6 000, 7 000 people that need to be on the sanction list, because they are the real backbone. the same for iran. will you discuss, in fact now, sanctions for iran? can we still support iranian diplomats on the territory of europe, dear colleagues? we need to expel them the fastest as possible from europe. that is what we need to do, and that is what i expect: sanctions and weapons for ukraine and sanctions against iran at the next european council.
mr president, i wouldn’t say this very often, but i couldn’t agree more with mr verhofstadt, he was absolutely right that we need sanctions against iran and we need to deliver more and more and in a faster way weapons to ukraine to win the war. that’s the only solution for peace and we all want to have peace, definitely. unfortunately, the president of the commission has left – probably because this debate is too boring – but i was listening very carefully to her speech. she mentioned, of course, about the green deal, about climate change, that this will be like the main focus tomorrow in the meeting of the council. i was thinking, when she said that we have to take care of the raw materials, that we can’t accept a situation where we are relying on one country, on china, to have raw materials, and we have to take care of this. and i was thinking, how? what would be the solution? because, well, in fact most of the raw materials we’re relying on are in china and in africa, and in africa very many industries are owned by the chinese. we need cobalt for the batteries to drive our nice electric cars in the cities of europe to feel very green. at the same time, most of the reserves of cobalt are in congo and most of the resources are owned by chinese in congo. so how are we going to have this cobalt to drive our nice cars to feel very green? and how are we going to solve this? what’s the solution? are we going to kick out those chinese from congo or are we just maybe like following the absolutely crazy ideology where we are only about 6% of the population in the world and we are trying to save the planet? it’s like the same thing, like the communist ideology in the chinese in the sixties. i think there’s no big difference.
madam president, in light of the information that has become available since the deadline for plenary amendments, namely a statement that was made by the outgoing public defender of georgia on 7 december, i propose to amend the text and add the following text: ‘takes note of the statement of the public defender of georgia on 7 december 2022, which calls on the president of georgia to make use of the pardon mechanism concerning nika gvaramia as the case lacks justification and does not correspond to the fundamental principles of criminal law.’
mr president, i think the previous speaker exactly showed how this parliament is ridiculous and full of hypocrisy. the bad guys are all in hungary and poland. but if it is the netherlands and austria, they are good guys because they have good faith. it doesn’t matter that they just blocked for 11 years the basic right to free movement. but they are good guys. and that is the problem here in this house. also mr karas announced several times how the conference of europe had announced that we have to progress our federalism and globalism. 800 people said, ‘yeah, we would like to have an empire of eu’. it is 0.0001% of the population of the eu who said ‘yeah, we like federalism’. that’s why it’s a ridiculous house and i will never ever trust to give more power to the eu and i will trust more our own national parliaments. is it in hungary or in estonia or in the netherlands? i don’t care. please follow the treaties. and by the treaties you have very limited power in this house. you are not in the superstate where you can control everything. and that’s the biggest problem with the eu.
mr president, dear colleagues, it has become absolutely clear that russia can never win a victory over ukraine on the battlefield. and they know that. and that’s why they are increasingly resorting to terrorising the ukrainian civilian population on a huge scale. russia’s intent is clearly genocidal. the statements by russian leaders, denying the existence of ukrainians as a nation and ukraine as a separate country, clearly testify to that. while their intent is genocidal, the tactics they have chosen is terrorism. at this critical moment, we have to do more than we have done so far. we have to help ukrainians get through this harsh ukrainian winter by giving them equipment to keep the critical utilities operating as well as giving them financial support so as to keep the budget afloat. but we also have to dramatically step up the military aid that is giving ukraine the weapons on the scale and of the kind that help them achieve a decisive victory on the battlefield. that’s the best way to help save ukrainian lives and achieve a decisive victory over the aggressor. slava ukraini!
