mr president, sexual rights really need to be defended at this time. in europe, movements against sexual rights have become stronger and more organised. these movements receive substantial funding from outside europe and are not only opposed to sexual rights but also to the rights of women and minorities in a broader sense, i.e. to the undermining of human rights. reproductive rights are human rights that must be guaranteed to everyone and everyone must have the right to decide on his or her own reproduction in a free and responsible manner. the right to abortion is part of this. it is a woman's right to choose and to decide for herself about her own body, including in europe. as we know from international examples, banning abortions does not stop them, but makes the procedure unsafe and dangerous. already in europe many women are risking their lives by putting their lives in the hands of the pimps. the best way to prevent unwanted pregnancies is through quality sexual health information and education and access to contraceptives, not through the denial of abortion rights or the curtailment of women's rights. since women's rights are human rights, they must be respected in every member state of europe. if they are not implemented in one member state, we must create a european solution. for example, as president macron put it yesterday, the right to abortion will be added to the european charter of fundamental rights.
madam president, this report is a fine response by the parliament to an important strategy of the commission. we really need to scale up the investments into renewables in order to tackle our climate responsibilities, but also in order to address the current energy crisis we have, since we are too dependent still on fossil fuels. wind power is already the cheapest investment in new investments in a lot of european countries, and offshore wind is going to become one in the future, when we hasten the build—up. but it’s not just offshore wind we are talking about, it’s also other hybrid solutions like tidal and wave solutions. we really need to tap into this potential in order to make sure that we can achieve fully-renewable systems. the greens made a scenario up to 2040 where we can be totally 100% renewable in europe by 2040. and in this scenario we need to have 51% of renewables by 2030, and that is possible. that investment is economically possible also in the scenario, and the price of energy is not increasing. so we are just saying that we can do even more than the commission is proposing, and this report is a step towards that.
mr president, everything we are experiencing in europe today is a sign that the union must strengthen its own capacity to act, not only in foreign policy but also in security and defence policy. the union is also a security community and citizens expect membership to meet their security needs. in the field of security and defence policy, it should be noted that the member states include both nato and non-nato members. it is important that the union's action takes account of the security needs and rights of all member states. it was regrettable that the union woke up too late to realise that russia's negative stance on nato enlargement was also an insult to many eu countries, such as finland and sweden, countries which are not now members of nato but whose sovereign rights include the possibility of applying for nato membership. the eu must now act decisively to ensure that no new areas of interest are returned.
mr president, russia has long been on a path where the country's leadership seeks great power status through geopolitical power and aggressive foreign policy. the russian leadership has failed to reform the country's economy and to increase the welfare of its citizens. power politics are also dangerous and unpredictable because they are partly the result of weakness. russia's actions threaten the stability of ukraine and europe as a whole. meanwhile, no other country in europe is a threat to russia. its borders are secure, but not all its neighbors. the reason for this is russia's own actions. russia has occupied crimea and supports the bulwark of the national republics in eastern ukraine. we must make it clear to russia that it cannot continue on this path. it must respect the sovereignty of its neighbours and the eu must increase its own capacity to act with unity and initiative, also in the field of a tough foreign and security policy. we cannot simply react, but we must also guide europe's course in security. we cannot simply reply to letters, but we must take the initiative for peace and democracy ourselves. otherwise russia will continue its divide and rule diplomacy, dividing the european union into 27 different voices, and we cannot allow that to happen.
mr. president, mr. prime minister, the war that russia has started is completely reprehensible. it is a cruel and cowardly attack on a sovereign state, and the most innocent civilians are the ones who suffer the most. while we are preparing to help the refugees, we must do everything we can to bring peace to ukraine and toughen up the sanctions even further. in many member states there is now a heated debate about their position in the new, weaker security policy environment. as in the case of ukraine, all sovereign states have the right to make their own security policy decisions independently. they are to be done, not by fear, but by sound reasoning in moderation, but without undue delay or yielding to pressure, and with the goal of peace. in addition to immediate peace efforts and humanitarian aid, the eu must now move quickly to break its dependence on russian fossil fuels. this is essential for climate, energy security and security. the commission's communication yesterday was a good start, but we can do better. we need to mobilise green investments immediately to accelerate the transition in the short term. we need very urgent measures to improve energy efficiency and to change heating systems. the member states now need to know that these necessary investments, which also create jobs, can be launched immediately. if this requires a reassessment of existing or proposed financing mechanisms, we must be prepared to do so.
on behalf of the left. mr president, there has been disagreement in this chamber on many aspects of climate policy and sustainable development. i hope and believe that the circular economy is the kind of solution that looks like a win-win opportunity. by getting rid of the over-exploitation of virgin natural resources, we are creating new value chains and creating new jobs. the waste is designed out of the manufacturing process, and at the end of its useful life, the product provides us with a new raw material that continues its cycle. we are doing the climate a favor, we are not wasting the planet's finite resources, and we are creating new jobs. the need for batteries will multiply, according to the economic forum, up to 19 times in the coming years. the achievement of climate objectives requires the increased use of batteries to achieve emission reductions in transport and the digitalisation of everyday services is also increasing the need for batteries. it's growing fast. it is absolutely essential that we be able to recover the precious metals from batteries and reuse them. the strength of this regulation is that it takes the entire life cycle into account. i think it is particularly important that we also take a stand on human rights. many of the raw materials that we need in our daily digitization come from conflict zones, and at their worst, their value causes conflict. it is unacceptable that our consumption should be made possible at the expense of human rights, and it is therefore important that the duty of care under corporate responsibility should apply to all batteries in the future. i am glad and grateful to mr bonafide that the report is in favour of ambition. i would have been prepared to go further myself, but i shall be happy to vote in favour of this report. this is a benefit for the planet and also reduces europe's dependence on these critical raw materials. the regulation also makes it easier for consumers to change their batteries themselves and to have a carbon footprint on the labels. the new battery regulation is an important step towards using raw materials in a way that respects the planet's limits and towards achieving the full potential of the circular economy.
mr president, the battery regulation provides a good framework for action by which the european union can take a long step towards electric transport. but there are many bottlenecks to be opened. one challenge is the raw materials for the battery industry. we're leaning towards recycling and reuse, and that's good, but we also need virgin battery materials tremendously. the commission has already identified some of them as so-called critical raw materials two years ago. particular concerns are related to cobalt, lithium and nickel. their availability and ethical and environmentally sustainable production. europe's own production of raw materials for batteries is totally inadequate. the criminal war is making things worse. russia is the largest producer of nickel. we know the impact on the world market situation for nickel. availability is declining, and the price is rising. the commission should therefore prepare a new evaluation, taking account of the war, as soon as possible. how can the supply chains for raw materials be guaranteed? and how could europe, with its own european, sustainable and popular mining and exploration, become more efficient, faster and more productive?
madam president, i would first like to thank and congratulate my dear ? colleague, grace o'sullivan, for great work in finalising this negotiation. putin’s war in ukraine has put the phasing out fossil fuels to the top of the agenda for all of us. even many who didn’t realise the importance of this before have now come to realise that we really need to invest in renewables and energy efficiency in europe and get rid of dependency on energy imports. fossil fuel imports from russia are a way for him to finance the russian war machine. so we really need to stop importing energy and fossil fuels from russia, but also look beyond that; that we stop using fossil fuels in general, and we phase out those fast. it’s a way for us to become energy independent, but it’s also a way for us to invest in our climate future and to a healthy environment. so this is something we really need to look at when we implement this environmental action plan, that the scaling down of fossil fuel subsidies and other environmentally harmful subsidies are now on the top of the agenda of the commission. these subsidies, the fossil fuels that create environmental problems and climate problems, also environmentally harmful subsidies, they have been a great paradox of our policy. on one hand, we try to support our environmental policies and a sustainable future and, on the other hand, we have destroyed it, creating damage to our health and to the environment. the goal set in this program for phasing out the environmentally harmful subsidies and, in particular, fossil fuel subsidies, really needs to be implemented without delay. they are important in order to achieve our climate goals and to limit global warming to 1.5 °c. they also help our local environment in many cases, and i think it’s important that the commission realises that there is no security without sustainable environment and sustainable climate policy and vice versa. so we need to really look at both of these in getting rid of dependency on fossil fuels.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, putin is the aggressor in this war in ukraine. yet every day we continue to buy his fossil fuels we fund this attack on peaceful ukraine and support his power. so we have to do our utmost to get rid of this dependency fast. we in the greens appreciate the commission acting on diversification of fossil fuel supplies and introducing a gas storage obligation to keep homes warm next winter. but this should not mean investments in new fossil fuel infrastructure. that would just lock in our dependency on fossil fuels from elsewhere in the long term. that would fail us and our people on urgent climate action. so we need joint purchases, better coordination and cooperation and solidarity between member states to act on high energy prices, but we also need to hasten our investments in renewables and energy efficiency. we call on member states to do more to support vulnerable households, using flexibilities in the existing framework, for example through direct payments and / or vouchers. this is urgently needed for those who cannot afford their energy bills. price caps on gas are fossil fuel subsidies. they are ineffective and strain the public purse, as also mentioned by ecb president lagarde. we should rather tax windfall profits from energy companies and direct them to those in need and also direct them into new investments in renewables and energy efficiency. the message on storage and market design should be strictly limited in scope and time. filling up our storage facilities and ensuring bearable energy bills will cost a lot of money and we need to invest at the same time to cut energy consumption and ramp up renewables. so we have to have short-term action to get rid of dependency, long-term action to create independence in energy.
mr president, a few things: we have been talking about courage here and now we need it. nuclear power on a large scale is the only real solution to generating electricity. the age of the internal combustion engine is not yet over, which is why we need oil. the research into new forms of energy must be invested strongly and quickly. the russian threat has been there for a long time, but the good faith has been endless. you don't wake up to this until you're hungry and it's just around the corner. of course, we must break our dependence on russian energy. my own country, finland, could become self-sufficient in heat production, for example, by making extensive use of peat energy. when the cold comes, climate hysteria must be avoided.
on behalf of the left. mr president, the latest ipcc reports tell us that we are running out of time and that political decisions are still lacking. the good news is that we can still influence and reduce the negative impacts, but this requires that we act vigorously and immediately. with the current model, we're already on track to exceed the 1.5 degree limit within 10 years, and when we exceed the 1.5 degree limit, the consequences are more negative than previously thought. climate change has already weakened food security, with extreme weather events increasing worldwide. the russian invasion of ukraine has made the situation worse than ever. it is essential that we follow scientific advice in adaptation efforts as well, and thus avoid poor adaptation. one proposed solution to food security is to increase crop area and to abandon biodiversity goals, but it is one example of short-sighted maladaptive adaptation that will pay off in the future. land use change is one of the main drivers of climate change and a major threat to biodiversity. for our planet to be able to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead, we need a strong biodiversity to protect us.
on behalf of the left. mr president, for a long time the price of the emissions trading system has been falling behind in a way that did not encourage the necessary changes. there were too many allowances, the price was low, and in addition, the free allocation distorted and the ets was weakened by the state-granted emissions trading compensation. the european court of auditors' report says that the free allocation has slowed down the transition, as there has been no incentive to invest in the necessary infrastructure. the emission allowances have also been obtained free of charge. the free allocation is justified by the need to prevent carbon leakage. at the same time, we have prevented the innovation and investment that could make europe the world's leading provider of carbon-neutral products and solutions. the new carbon capture mechanism cbam creates a barrier to carbon leakage by pricing products at the european border where they are produced with lower climate standards. this is not an easy exercise, but it will eventually make the expressions unnecessary. we have to give them up. it is essential from the point of view of industry and commerce and hence jobs that we can provide a predictable and stable environment. it is important to set emissions reductions at an adequate level now, rather than having to tighten the targets in haste along the way. only this will guarantee operators a predictable environment in which investments are well targeted.
mr president, when the market stability reserve was launched at the beginning of 2019, it was thought that it would stabilise and raise the prices of allowances. i've been there. prices have gone up a lot, up to 100 euros. but stability is not real. at the moment, the volatility is still far too high. now that the ets is being tightened, it is very important that we have a mechanism to continue to stabilise the price of allowances, reduce volatility and ensure that the price does not go sky high. in this sense, this small adjustment to the market stability reserve is a good thing. we need it and it must be used in a way that ensures a fair price and a stable price development for emission allowances.
mr president, the fossil economy is a huge part of the security risks of our time, and money from fossil income strengthens the power and wealth of despotic leaders. in ukraine, we have seen the cruelty and horrors where that leads to. us europeans must hear ukrainian pleas to stop funding putin’s war. one thing should be crystal, crystal clear in this discussion to everyone: there is no room for more fossil gas infrastructure investments. we need to stop energy imports from russia, but they should not be replaced by dependency on fossil imports from elsewhere. the current energy price surge and the geopolitical situation have exposed vulnerabilities, especially in the form of energy bills in europe. relying on the recipe of more gas through diversification is only a short—term fix that creates new dependencies. is it really better to depend on fossil gas from azerbaijan or qatar and fracking gas from the us rather than from russia? in the long term this is not the case. so this is why the greens/efa group rejects the revised ten-e guideline regulation and demands that any infrastructure projects must be in line with the commitments made under the paris agreement. investments must go into energy efficiency and renewables.
mr president, russia's cruel and illegal war against ukraine must be condemned and the news of the recent russian atrocities must be thoroughly and independently investigated and the perpetrators brought before the international criminal court. it's not just the future of the ukrainians that's at stake. it's the future of all of us. it is the right of every independent country to decide freely its own future. the commission yesterday published new sanctions, including a ban on imports of coal from russia. this is worth about four billion a year to russia, while oil and gas are worth over 100 billion. this is not enough, and sanctions must be extended to oil and gas without delay. in addition, all russian banks must be frozen from the swift system. it is completely unacceptable that we are using energy purchases to finance putin's war machine. now that it is finally clear to everyone that we must disconnect from russian fossil energy on a fast timetable, it is important to understand that we must also disconnect from fossil energy. we must strive for energy independence, and that will be achieved by investing in renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency. there is a strong synergy between the disengagement from russian energy and the climate objectives, if you will. unfortunately, some have used the war as an excuse to get away from the climate targets we have set for europe. this is very short-sighted and not in the interests of any european. the climate crisis is not a problem in the future, but an acute crisis in progress, and we cannot afford to fail to address it. finally, mr borrell, the european union must be bold and able to play a strong role in mediating peace. we must do everything we can to find a diplomatic and negotiated solution to stop this bloodshed.
mr president, commissioner, the eu's research strategy must be based on academic freedom. however, i believe that this principle must also be seen in the role of science and its applications in the major challenges facing europe today. there are many areas in the european industrial strategy where we are vulnerable in terms of the research knowledge needed. adding to our vulnerability is russia's brutal war and the uncertainty of obtaining many critical raw materials and industrial components from the rest of the world. i think that those responsible for research and innovation and industry in the eu should quickly assess what kind of revisions the changing world order requires of european research and its cooperation with european industry. and so is working with like-minded people around the world. today we know that we have succeeded in this in the field of climate change, but there are many other areas where cooperation is needed.
mr president, time and again i wonder why only poland and hungary are in the eu's teeth. does this mean that there are no problems in other member states? one reason for this, of course, is simply that some member states have more power in the eu. the parliament has lifted puigdemont's immunity. i do not think that parliament would have lifted the immunity if it had been a polish or a hungarian member. spain had enough leverage to press, and parliament caved in. it's a shame. in all eu member states, there are more and less problems. in finland, the prosecutor is persecuting a member of parliament for sharing a verse from the bible, but parliament is not bothered by that because the eu no longer defends christian values. rainbow values have replaced bible values. who gets to decide which values are better, hungarian values or eu values for hungarians? nation-states are a relatively new invention. imperialism is older. the drug of power is also driving the eu. power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely the eu. parliament itself discriminates against the political opposition, my group. is that better than discriminating?
mr president, thank you to the eu for now accepting refugees. but not thanks to asylum tourism. we have to stop it. people who do not respect anyone's human rights do not have to come to europe. for example, migration from africa is not primarily a form of refuge. the right to seek asylum is being abused in a blatant way, and there are those who do. if a person is in the country illegally, they must be removed from the country. it's not an insult, it's not a crime. in finland, a man who entered the country illegally in 2015 is applying for asylum for the seventh time, and the support machine has been working all the time. this is a travesty, and only the lawyers who are paid by the state benefit from it. in this case, the right to seek asylum and the right to be denied repatriation must be violated. the idiotic, childish laws that make this possible. i don't think the laws were originally intended to be a conduit for illegal immigration, but they have been designed to be such in the hands of well-meaning politicians. the child's faith in the sincerity of the visitors is endless.
mr president, the economic and political elite of the european union wants to concentrate power at the supranational level and destroy the identities and cultures of the european nation states. one step towards this goal is the european electoral code. i am astonished that the eu elites are no longer satisfied with the european parliament elections, which are a collection of national elections. the european parliament has already made a number of recommendations to the council and parliament. the eu is no longer just an eu federation, but a european state. the eu wants to go further than the united states of america is today. there's no way a californian could vote for a texan candidate. i will do everything i can to ensure that the germans do not choose and vote for finnish politicians. a more constructive way of working here in the eu would be to coordinate the euro elections and to focus on the technical details, such as the harmonisation of the election date and deadlines. the member states could certainly be given good examples which they could adopt if they wished.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, domènec ruiz devessa, for his thorough work. there are many things in the play that you can be happy about. this is the case, for example, with the inclusion of gender equality in the electoral list of candidates. in addition to the european principle, another important principle must be borne in mind when reforming the electoral law: the principle of proximity. decisions are taken as closely as possible to the citizens and are referred to the eu decision-making body - for example, by means of electoral law - only when they have added value. i would leave the exact date of the elections to be decided at national level by the member states. we know that there are different voting day traditions. and transnational lists: preferring to hold elections close to the people and allowing voters to choose candidates they really know and know. of course, this is of particular importance for small countries, such as finland, sweden or denmark, so i hope that the needs of the different member states and the different citizens will be taken into account when the electoral law is reformed.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the greens largely welcome the proposal made yesterday by the commission and are delighted to see that the commission now is focusing very much on cutting our fossil fuel reliance and shifting our solutions to renewables and energy efficiency – so not just on short-term sourcing and ensuring security of gas supplies. this is very much welcomed by the greens. energy efficiency and renewables are both a short- and long—term solution to increase our energy independence and it’s what our climate commitments require. we should invest now in sustainable solutions straight away to make sure that we have energy sovereignty for europe, and it’s also good for our economies. especially, we welcome the legislative amendments increasing the energy efficiency target, the solar roof obligation in the energy performance of buildings directive and the target increase acting on permitting in the renewable energy directive. i think these are bold steps, even though we greens would have liked to see even higher targets. we appreciate the move to higher targets from the commission as it is a level which was previously seen as impossible. but we see that impossible things are made possible by bold change. on permitting, we welcome the proposal to speed up project approval, including through the identification of go—to areas. however, here we would also like to state that we need to be careful that existing legislation to protect biodiversity is not undermined or ignored. and we will be looking into this closely. we also appreciate the switch to timelines for rooftop solar projects and the increase in obligations. on the negatives, the sale of ets allowances from the mortgage stability reserve is the biggest mistake, from our point of view, in this proposal, as it increases emissions in the ets. also, while we acknowledge some specific gas infrastructures may be needed, especially in eastern europe, we have concerns on the building timeframes of these new and sometimes competing pipeline projects, which likely lead to over capacities, lock-in or stranded assets and potentially being completed late. these infrastructures should only be built with private money if they have economic viability. finding new eu money is always difficult, but we cannot do the energy transition only with eu money. we need member states and companies to also step up and ensure that they contribute to this transition away from fossil fuels to an energy efficient and renewable eu. but we are happy that the commission has done its part.
mr president, the commission's published roadmaps for the disengagement from russian energy contain many highly desirable measures, such as increasing energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable sources, but also very questionable choices, such as weakening the emissions trading system and fossil fuel investments. while we are disengaging from russian energy, we must remember that the climate crisis is not lost on anyone. it remains our greatest existential threat. that is why we must get rid of not only russian fossil energy but fossil energy, wherever it is produced. it is of the utmost importance that the solutions that are being taken now because of the war are not in conflict with our climate objectives, and that synergies can be found between them, if we so wish. and yes, sanctions and other necessary measures will affect and affect the daily lives of all of us europeans, but that is the price we must be prepared to pay to support the ukrainians and defend freedom. finally, it is in the interest of all europeans to move our energy system towards a self-sufficient renewable energy system.
mr president, we have reason to be concerned about the developments in turkey in recent years. the problems of democracy, the restriction of media freedom, the concentration of power and also turkey's foreign policy positions raise serious questions about where the country is going and whose friend it wants to be. today the turkish leadership is insulting finland and sweden by blocking the progress of these countries' applications for nato membership. the turkish leadership's actions are not about fighting terrorism - because fighting terrorism is something that every eu member state has internalized - but about using the nato membership of finland and sweden as a pawn in the promotion of other political and military objectives of the turkish leadership. the eu parliament is now expected to take a clear position in defence of the fundamental right of all eu countries to choose their own security policy. i am surprised that the commission representative did not mention this at all in his recent speech. finland and sweden deserve our support.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. mr president, the itre committee has tabled a number of amendments to the commission proposal, for which it has competence with the envi committee. we introduced amendments to benchmarks, conditionality, funds and carbon leakage prevention. envi took many of them into account. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peter liese, and the committee for all this. in the emissions trading system, carbon leakage risk fisheries purchase a share of their allowances from the market. some of them are free. now the carbon cap tax cbam needed changes the situation for five industries. this is where itre and envi have a few differences of opinion. itre proposes that the increase in carbon duties and the abolition of the free allocation of allowances should be introduced later than the commission and envi propose. however, itre believes that the reform could be completed earlier than the commission proposes but later than envi proposes. without compromising the objectives, this would give the industry significant additional time to invest and adapt to the change ahead. the commission is also proposing that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. this would mean continuing with the status quo, avoiding billions in export burdens and curbing carbon leakage. i hope that parliament will vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the itre committee. the competitiveness of european industry and thus the future of european jobs is at stake.
mr president, parliament has recognised the climate emergency and in response we have signed the paris agreement and enacted the climate act, whereby we ourselves commit ourselves to base climate decisions on scientific advice in order to be on the safe track. at the same time, it is estimated that 1.5 degrees will be exceeded in less than eight years, and yet we are dealing with a climate package whose baseline target level does not follow scientific advice. the 2030 emission reduction target minus 55% is simply too low. when the overall target is too low, this is repeated for all the parts of the package and does not give any assurance that we are on a sustainable path. the fit for 55 package, despite its shortcomings, is taking us towards a carbon-neutral europe. whether we get there in time depends on the ambition of this house. emissions trading as a single tool is one of the most effective accelerators of emission reductions. it is justified to extend and improve it. the price to be paid for pollution must be an incentive to move towards a zero-emission production system, and it is therefore good that there are finally a set of milestones and a timetable for the abolition of free distribution. as we know, free divisions have slowed investment in clean solutions and thus slowed the transition by taking away the incentives to make the necessary investments. free rations are against the whole idea of emissions trading. the new carbon tariff mechanism will replace them by preventing unfair competition from products produced outside the eu with lower climate standards. the proposal to extend emissions trading to road transport and housing is challenging. the costs would be borne directly by ordinary households, and there would be no certainty of social justice. therefore, the compromise now negotiated to start with only commercial operators is a good solution at this stage. these emissions reductions are needed in this sector, but they must be implemented in a way that is socially just and does not make those who already have a tight budget pay for them. i therefore believe that the burden-sharing sector is the right way to deal with these emissions, because it would give member states the best means to deal with them. to make the green transition, we will need historic investments. since the transition cannot and must not be paid for entirely with taxpayers' money, private money must be involved. this is best achieved by creating a stable and predictable investment environment, which ensures through regulation that the most profitable investment is always zero-emission. we should therefore set emission reductions now at a level that is sufficient at once so that we do not have to tighten the target again in the coming years. the ever-changing regulatory environment is generating wasted investment and uncertainty that we cannot afford. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat climate change. the longer we wait, the more brutal, costly and difficult the necessary transition ahead of us will be. the cost of not doing so is multiplied both humanly and economically.
mr president, it is estimated that the eu produces 10% of the emissions. the real big polluters of the planet operate on their own timetables. they've been given a contemporary view of europe. we have a competition in target extortion percentages to see who can put the biggest number on the table. this is a way of undermining the competitiveness of the economy. it's not enough for russia to meddle in the world economy with its war. the eu is greasing its own gallows with these actions. the big empty bubble in these climate values is that this so-called green transition is paying for itself. but how it happens is not shown. i understand the need for moderation and rationality in climate matters, but we're escaping into a world of fantasy. the eu must be broken up and the original free trade area restored.
rapporteur. – mr president, we need to turn the way we use land into a climate solution and reverse the negative impact of our land use for climate. that is the way towards carbon neutrality and also beyond the carbon negativity. and while we are some time creating incentives and markets to more environmentally sound practices and products. so this is also in the interests of these sectors and jobs as well. forests, soil, health and biodiversity must be protected to tackle that being climate and biodiversity crisis. yet at the moment the exact opposite is still happening. eu sinks have continuously decreased since almost a decade now due to record high harvest in eu forests, intensive agricultural practices and not enough action to increase sinks. furthermore, forest biodiversity is declining. an ambitious revision of the lulucf regulation is needed, therefore, to reverse the situation and to ensure a sustainable, predictable and long-term contribution of natural carbon sinks to the eu climate neutrality objective and to contribute to the eu’s biodiversity objectives. we must accelerate markets for sustainable land use measures. strong and systemic measures to reduce carbon emissions caused by land use and to increase carbon sinks must be taken up to a whole new level. we need to promote carbon farming, restore wetlands and bogs, implement afforestation, halt deforestation and have better land use planning, reduce agricultural emissions, improve sustainability of forest use and keep harvesting levels, methods and rotation lengths within the limits of biodiversity and climate. public and private funding must be mobilised to support ecosystem based regenerative approaches in forests and agricultural lands that will also support individual farmers and forest managers. they should benefit from incentives to store more carbon on their land and forests while ensuring the protection of biodiversity and other societal benefits and also soil quality. the land use sector needs a sustainable transition, just like, for example, the automotive industry. reducing emissions is not against them, it is for them. and the transition must be done in a just wait. the transition will be followed by a higher acceptability of production of forestry and agriculture. so it’s a win-win for markets and nature. as rapporteur, i have worked hard to find cross-party compromises in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) committee that could be acceptable for this parliament. the energy report represents a good compromise of the main views, and i thank all the shadows for their very cooperative work on the file. the final envi report is an improvement for climate action from the initial proposal by the european commission, while still maintaining its main focus. we must ensure that climate smart policy is also biodiversity smart. many in this parliament claim that lulucf is only about carbon accounting, but this is a false claim. sinks have also a lot to do with biodiversity. both natural sinks and biodiversity happen in the same land and we should pursue our policies at the same time. it is also more cost efficient to look for double benefits for climate and nature together. so the envi report tasks the commission with setting up minimum criteria for the inclusion of biodiversity monitoring in land monitoring systems via delegated acts. also, one of the most difficult compromises is on the overall target of this regulation. some studies have shown that we could reach as high as 600 million tonnes of sinks in europe by 2030. and some meps are also asking this parliament to support this level. the envi compromise, which was not easy to reach, is set at 310 million tonnes as the commission propose. but it is also further amplified by additional measures and initiatives at union and member state level to support carbon farming, delivering at least 50 million additional tonnes co2 equivalent of net removals by 2030 at union level. so this is a way of making sure that also carbon farming is promoted as fast as possible and it is seen as a possibility to increase sinks also in the short term. the envi report would also ensure that eu natural sinks should keep on increasing after 2030, setting both 2030 targets for the lulucf sector. and it also proposes a soft target for cropland, grassland and wetlands to incentivise changes in agricultural practices. so i look forward to strong support to negotiate on this basis with the council for a strong action on climate change in land use.
on behalf of the left. mr president, imagine that you are on a boat on the open sea. the boat starts to leak, the water visibly enters at an ever-increasing rate. how should we react? do you start to bucket the water away as quickly as possible, or do you declare that the burden is too great for you right now and wait for someone else to resolve the situation? or do you trust that the boat will withstand all the water, even though all the experts disagree? and when the water keeps coming and coming, no matter how fast you try to remove it, do you try to block the leak or to speed it up? a person with normal self-preservation instinct does not count on being able to drain enough water but tries to prevent water from entering, and a person with normal self-preservation instinct takes action as soon as he notices water coming in. from a climate standpoint, it seems that we as a species lack the instinct to protect ourselves. we cling to short-sightedly gained advantages, even though we know that the alternative of continuing as before is not there. the freight transport sector accounts for 60% of all eu greenhouse gas emissions. with the whole climate package as an inadequate starting point, a minus fifty percent reduction in emissions by 2030 is not in line with scientific advice. this inadequate overall objective is repeated for each presentation. for all the elements of the climate package under discussion today, it is the duty of this parliament to set targets at an adequate and safe level. this is a rate of 1.5 degrees that is exceeded in less than eight years. the first time it is expected to be exceeded in five years. what are we gonna do? will we do what is necessary, or will we wait to see how much water our boat will eventually withstand before it sinks? the longer we delay the necessary and sufficient climate decisions, the more expensive, the more difficult and the more brutal the change will be for everyone. the braking system is not protecting anyone. quite the opposite.
mr president, commissioner, the council adopted the 2021 climate law, which sets the contribution of emissions at a maximum of 225 million tonnes of co2 equivalent by 2030. however, the commission is proposing a much more ambitious target of 310 million tonnes of co2 equivalent, and the climate radicals are proposing even more extreme figures. we know that we are facing an energy crisis, and that will exacerbate the food crisis and many other crises. when energy is expensive, everything else is expensive, especially in finland, where we no longer get wood from russia, but where we should now cut down our own trees. the world is not running out of energy, but it's running out of reason. why make the energy crisis worse and even fuel it when we should be doing everything we can to alleviate it or even prevent it? i hope that tomorrow parliament will vote in favour of the more reasonable reduction target i have put forward, and i hope that we will indeed take account of the situation we are in at the moment. europe needs energy.
mr. president, this toxic green climate madness has been raised to divine proportions. it's become a religion. it's a sick ambition where facts no longer matter. the carbon dioxide polarity predicts the end of the world. it's always been done. it's just not here. the manifestations of the disease are that forest fires and floods that have always been are also caused by climate change. the eu has become blind to its own madness. finland is to become a european forest reserve, with forests under eu control. socialism is not dead. the road traffic is being attacked in a way that has never been seen before. it will effectively end the use of internal combustion engines. the electric car is expected to be a savior, but technology will have to evolve a lot for that to happen. the electric car produces emissions over its lifetime at least equal to those of a car with a combustion engine. i'm sure in the electric car world, you'll be forced to cancel your wildest dreams. with all this talk about tons of co2, where's the scale to measure it?
rapporteur. – mr president, i am convinced that parliament can show leadership tomorrow in its votes to make sure that we will have a fit for 55 package that will deliver a better europe also when it comes to land use. there has been debate today about whether our land use today is sustainable and i think the science-based answer is: not yet. we still have biodiversity loss, we still have lots of things. but i also want to make it clear that this regulation, the lulucf regulation, to increase carbon sinks is also an opportunity for our farmers and foresters. so we can increase carbon sinks by way of introducing new farming methods, focusing on regenerative farming, less need of fertilisers, more better focus on soil quality, and this will be to the benefit of the productivity of european agriculture. we just need to create funding mechanisms for this and that is why we need to have an ambitious goal, which the envi committee proposes, of a separate carbon farming additional target of 50 million tonnes by 2030. also in forestry i support the objective of incentivising a circular, sustainably sourced bio-economy and the use of long-lived wood products over shorter usages, but at the same time, we have to make sure that there is integrity in how we make rules on this. potential additional benefits from material substitution are unlikely to compensate for the reduction of the net forest sink associated with the increased harvesting. therefore, the envi committee delayed the possibility for the commission to introduce carbon storage products until after the adoption of carbon removal certification, subject to full legislative review and under strict sustainability criteria. so we can actually promote sustainable bio-economy products that will both increase carbon storage, but make sure that they are within the boundaries of adding integrity to how forests are managed. also, finally, there is an added component in the envi proposal on taking into account international developments, in particular related to the implementation of article 6 of the paris agreement. the committee suggests that where a member state decides to authorise the use of carbon credits from the lulucf sector for offsetting by public or private entities, these amounts should be deduced from the amount of net removals taken into account for the purpose of compliance with the lulucf target of that member state. shortly saying, this will create a lot of funding from the private sector to these compensating actions by companies because there is integrity, it is not double-counted, and i think this can be a big chance also for forests and agriculture. so i urge parliament to make a progressive decision tomorrow.
mr president, europe is not just an economy and a single market. europe also means values and equal rights for its citizens. commitment to common values, democracy, the rule of law, a free press and human rights is particularly necessary today when we see what has happened outside the union, in particular in russia. the eu must live as it teaches. the amount of the residence allowance for poland cannot be charged until poland has complied with the rule of law requirements. the eu parliament and the commission must remain firm. every eu citizen must be able to trust that the democratic rights of citizens will be realised ultimately by common decisions. the eu cannot give aid to countries where the powerful are putting it in their pockets and building new-age machinery of oppression. we must defend the fundamental rights of citizens in poland, hungary and the union as a whole.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament and the plenary for the strong support for the envi committee’s position. and, therefore, i propose that according to rule 59(4) of the rules of procedure, i would like to request that the lulucf file be referred back to the envi committee for interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with rules 60 and 74 of the rules of procedure.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, the process with this ets file does not live up to what i consider to be the highest values of democratic decision-making. in the last plenary session, the ets proposal was voted down and referred back to committee. where i come from, referring back to the committee means the plenary did not find the proposal sufficient, for whatever reasons, and by referring back to the committee, it gives the message it wants the proposal to be reworked and brought back with changes. in this case, the committee sent back the exact same text the parliament already once dismissed. the only action in the committee was a decision by the majority of coordinators to put the vote in the committee to send back the exact same text. no discussion in the committee was held. the shadows from each group who, even if the negotiations would be really tough, were all committed to finding a common compromise, were not called even for one discussion on how to proceed, nor on the content. and now, with the facilitated voting order, we won’t even have the opportunity to express our position as the renew, epp and s&d compromise is exceptionally voted first. democratic decision-making is a competition between the best possible alternatives. it’s about defending yours with the best possible arguments, not trying to block others with any possible means you can find. madam president, this process was far from the respect this house deserves and far from what the climate needs. the climate politics of this house is completely contradictory. on one hand, we passed a climate law where we state all targets must be based on science and aligned with the paris agreement, and yet today we are voting on a proposal which is not according to science. and mr canfin, we are not in line with 1.5 degrees. this fact does not change however you try to spin it. and that’s not my opinion – that is science. the climate crisis is not something far in the future. it is happening as we speak. just put on the news and try to imagine how will you explain that you did not do enough when there was still a chance?
mr president, biodiversity, of course, has an absolute value in itself, but it’s also a crucial part in our fight against climate change. the stronger the biodiversity is, the better is our planet’s resilience ahead of the inevitable warming we are heading to. that is why we need a strong international agreement. i refuse to accept that the momentum has gone due to these postponements. i think if it is gone, then we have to regain it, and i think that the eu is a key player here. so, mr sinkevičius, how do we do that? i think that, first of all, we have to put our own house in order – and we are not quite there yet – and then we have to have real ambition. you were talking about the finance earlier, and i really didn’t get exactly your position. what is the commission’s position on the global south demand, which i think is very reasoned and very sound? what is the commission’s position exactly on the global south demand to get international finance, because they need the finance as otherwise they will not meet the targets.
thank you, commissioner sinkevičius. and what about the measurable targets? because we need an agreement with measurable targets. how will we bind the finance to the measurable targets? because as we have failed completely in our 2020 targets, so have all the countries i know, including my own, has failed their biodiversity targets for 2020. so, we don’t have a very strong reference there to give us guidane. so, how to bind the finance to measurable targets so that you get finance when you proceed, because that would probably be the only way to get this part of the country, europe, to do its part as well.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the recipe for combating climate change is ultimately quite simple: emissions must be brought down, sinks and biodiversity up and cash flows to support this ecological reconstruction. taxonomy is an important tool in directing cash flows to the investments needed to make the necessary transition. the message from financial institutions and investors is consistent: we need a way to define which investments are truly green and which are contributing to climate change solutions. this is why taxonomy was created: a classification system based on scientific criteria that allows the identification of genuinely green investments. the commission is now adopting a supplementary act which is in complete contradiction with the taxonomy already adopted, i.e. with the rules adopted by the commission itself. the situation is so absurd that it would be laughable if it were not so serious. it is an undeniable fact that natural gas is a fossil fuel and a major climate warmer, but the commission still wants to define it as green or sustainable. the commission has put together a proposal for a regulation on both natural gas and nuclear energy. they're two completely different things, and they have completely different investment logic. nuclear power is low-emission, although not entirely free of environmental problems, but under certain conditions it can be part of a sustainable path towards a climate-resilient europe. to pin these two together is not only intellectually dishonest but completely illogical. the result is that the whole taxonomy is contaminated, as it can no longer provide information on what investment is truly green. and so it becomes a greenhouse washer, even though one of its purposes was specifically to prevent greenhouse washing. if this act is upheld, the commission will have to give up its talk of the eu being the leader in global climate action. how can we demand that others underestimate fossils when we ourselves decide that fossils are green? my friends, the only way to save the taxonomy is to reject this mindless delegated act.
mr president, the ultimate objective of the state is to provide people with security, which includes energy supply. the european parliament and the green left in general have a strange need to act against the interests of their citizens. in germany, the heating bill for a private home can run as high as 4,000 euros a year. the fact is that nuclear power is the safest and cheapest way to produce energy in this world situation. germany will now have to pay for the stupidity of the green politicians, when there is no nuclear power and there may be no gas. germany has to switch to coal power, which is environmentally friendly. the acceptance of nuclear power as a sustainable form of energy is of particular importance for finland. finland cannot be part of a club that makes idiotic decisions. i strongly object to the acceptance of this objection. i'll see that it's rejected. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted by a large majority)
the blue card speech. mr huhtasaari, you said that one of the most important tasks of the state is to guarantee the safety of its citizens. i am in full agreement with you, but you are still opposed to the objection, even though this delegated act means that it will be more difficult for finland and estonia, for example, to get rid of russian natural gas. for example, this taxonomic act does not recognise the joint floating lng terminal between estonia and finland. lng is the way natural gas can be imported from elsewhere, rather than piped through russia. isn't there a rather nasty contradiction in your speech on this point, representative whistler?
reply to the blue card speech. thank you to mr modig for the good question. it is true that there is a contradiction here, but nuclear power is so important to finland that we cannot take the risk of not receiving green money. and the main culprits in this are the germans, who want to give up the three nuclear power stations they still have. nuclear power would be a safer energy source, and considering that, for example, in may, germany's trade balance was in deficit of about eur 1 billion. we are facing a real energy crisis, and a food crisis, and many other crises, and we cannot afford to play games with this.
mr president, nuclear power is a zero-emission form of energy. however, it is a matter of concern that only two countries have solved the problem of nuclear waste disposal: finland and sweden. despite the risks, nuclear power is, as the commission says, an important alternative in the energy transition and deserves positive taxonomic treatment. however, in the same act, the commission proposes positive treatment for fossil gases as well. the commission's position is that if you want to have nuclear power, you have to accept fossil gas and vice versa. political trading at its worst, i'd say. the commission's position is all the more difficult to understand when one remembers that a few months ago the eu decided to impose many strict conditions on wood raw material in the taxonomy act. if fossil gas is now given a taxonomic status, it is particularly important that in the future all raw materials considered to be renewable should be given at least the same treatment.
mr president, first of all: who decides what's a radical party? it is easy to get the stamp of the far right by opposing destructive immigration, when opposing it is the only sensible course to save europe. i am referring specifically to the so-called refugees from these islamic countries, the middle east and africa. i'm not familiar with russia's relationship with any of the parties mentioned in the statement. there are probably some, but the government of each member state determines the diplomatic relations. has any country yet severed diplomatic relations with russia? probably not. and is there a country with a radical party in power? of course, russia must be targeted with every possible means to bring it under control. earth is a real threat to world peace.
mr president, the climate has changed, nobody is getting anywhere with it, but it has become a climate hysteria, the biggest bluff in world history, when the natural cycle is deliberately searched for the ingredients of the end of the world. above all life is this sword of damocles, the invented sword of climate change. pollution must be reduced - yes, of course - and humans can do something about it, but the earth is spinning along its own course with its future ice ages and hot seasons, and the eu can do nothing about it. the ubiquitous green transition itself is the poison that paralyzes normal living. the eu does not need to come to finland to advise on forestry matters. we're already the best in the world at that. we plant 200 million trees a year, four tons for every tree felled. take a lesson from that!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, it’s very obvious that the cheapest and cleanest energy is the one you do not consume. all the policymakers, if they are serious about ending energy dependence and about lowering the bills for citizens and businesses in europe, should first and foremost focus on maximising energy efficiency and savings and helping citizens and businesses to cut their energy consumption. every additional base percent of improved energy efficiency allows us to cut gas imports by 2.4% and oil imports by 3.5%. so, the compromise text voted on wednesday is in many respects, and in this regard, an improvement over the commission’s proposal, which already was on the right path. parliament should give a very strong mandate to negotiate with the council and improve the proposal. we also urge the commission to stand with parliament in the negotiations and to embrace a forward—looking and not backward—looking position. we have to make sure that all member states are on board, that there is enough binding us into the targets and into the milestones. against the backdrop of the current energy crisis and the climate emergency, energy and increased energy efficiency are key to keeping everyone on board.
on behalf of the id team. mr president and mr prime minister, europe will survive and europeans will survive, as long as we get rid of the eu as it is. there's a saying that good times make weak men and women. weak men and women have created a shocking criminal gang culture in sweden with their irresponsible immigration policy and they have no means of making sweden safe again. but i would like to congratulate the swedish democrats on their great election victory. i wish you'd been heard sooner and not just now. unfortunately, finnish state-owned companies have been removed from their traditional role of securing our national energy supply as a money machine for investors and corporate management. the finnish people are suffering losses of several billion euros due to uniper. the debt and poor finland has to pay the german electricity bills. i don't understand why the finnish prime minister wasn't in germany to negotiate, to defend the finns, but rather went to the fests. the national authorities should be responsible for the maintenance of the system. slovakia may nationalise its main electricity producer. slovakia is keen to offer its citizens cheap energy. stable and affordable energy is the key to prosperity and success. the cheap energy has made possible the birth of western civilization. europe was able to provide its citizens and businesses with a predictable and stable environment. europe is no longer capable of this. green technology is not yet at the point where we can replace fossil fuels without a drastic drop in living standards. europe is becoming poor. inflation is rising. china has very little inflation. europe buys expensive russian lng from china. in 2024, there will probably be a bigger recession than we dare to predict now. it's chaos, and after that, anything can happen. at least one change has already taken place in the finnish media and politicians: our green minister supports the construction of a wall and our national broadcaster yleisradiomme no longer repeats the mantra that finland belongs to everyone, there are no finns. this mantra ended when russia invaded ukraine. the italian banks are collapsing and the losses would once again be socialized through a rescue package. germany is on the verge of economic disaster. who's going to pay if germany doesn't? at the end of her career, thatcher said of the eu that we did not fight communism to create a new supranational totalitarianism. we're gonna have a tough time, but maybe sometimes you have to go really bad to go better. the stronger our nation states are, the stronger europe is.
on behalf of the left. mr president, mr prime minister marin, this has been punished by many simultaneous crises, both through the european parliament and through your government. we live in very challenging times, when we must be able to respond simultaneously to the crisis that threatens many of our foundations. the coronavirus pandemic has put both societies and citizens on edge, and the crisis is not over yet. the virus still requires us to be vigilant, and the social impacts of the pandemic will be long overdue. the hardest hit by the pandemic were those who already had a hard-on. it has hit particularly hard in areas dominated by women. and at the same time, we have a climate crisis. global warming continues to be an existential threat to humanity, one that we cannot fail to address. climate action is blamed for the sharp rise in energy prices. that is not entirely true, but the outrageous prices are the result of russia's war efforts, where energy has been harnessed as one form of warfare. in fact, if we had moved faster on the green transition, as the left has been arguing for years, we would not be nearly as dependent on russian fossil fuels as we are now. if we had done more earlier, we would not be as vulnerable as we are now. as we disconnect from russian fossil energy, we must understand that we must disconnect from fossil energy. anti-war action cannot and must not be in conflict with climate action. only by investing in renewable energy will we build a secure, predictable and self-sufficient energy future, where we are not dependent on any fossil energy supplier, and especially not on an authoritarian one. there is a strong synergy between the actions required by war and climate solutions, if you will. and by harnessing that synergy, we all win. now, with prices at this high, we need to support households to survive, but at the same time we need to keep the big picture in mind: we need systemic change to bring our societies, our economic structures and our way of life up to a climate-resilient level, and this must be done in a socially just way. the longer we delay, the more expensive and difficult it will be for everyone. and that is a debt that we cannot pass on to future generations. mr president, mr prime minister, democracy is also in crisis. there is a struggle going on between democracy and authoritarianism. we also have countries within europe that are breaking the rule of law, which is the common basis of values for the whole union. there can be no common union without a shared understanding of the importance of the rule of law. the rule of law and a legal society are the preconditions for a free society. we must defend it by all means at our disposal, including economic sanctions, which the rule of law mechanism allows us to impose. mr marin, the vision of strategic autonomy that you have often mentioned, when implemented in a climate-resilient way, has our full support.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, renewables are the future of european energy and also in solving the climate crisis they are necessary. in the context of both the climate crisis today what we see is already happening and the russian war on ukraine, it is important that they are now raising the ambition for 2030. i think it is the least minimum to increase the target to 45% of land use of energy and this is what the parliament’s compromise has achieved. we, as greens, have also tabled a model based on a scenario where we can go to fully renewables in 2040 and that would mean 56% by 2030. so we can overachieve even to 45% and that should be our aim. i am also pleased that the parliament’s majority has at least agreed to align the subtargets with reppowereu levels. so this will support member states in getting rid of fossil fuel dependency, and the most important thing here is not to replace dependency on russian fossil fuels with other imports. that would not be good for the european economy. that would not be good for our energy independence and therefore the renewables transition needs to be hastened. i want to thank the rapporteur and the shadows for the very constructive negotiations where they ended up with solid compromises on most of the articles, even though we also had differences in this house. that shows that we have brought a big majority of european politicians and views also in member states together in hastening the renewabled transition. finally, i am also glad that our green call to end fossil fuel use in low temperature industrial heat is included as a specific target because this potentially reduces eu gas demand by even 8% if implemented well by member states. so we should look at these low-hanging fruits where we can get rid of fossil fuels even faster than the overall target. i end by also bringing to your attention that in heating and cooling we also need to vote on an amendment that this target will be binding and that is what we greens are supporting tomorrow. thank you very much for good cooperation to all groups and we expect the commission to support the parliament’s ambition.
mr president, the committee's report defines almost all primary wood as non-renewable energy. this would be a grave mistake if parliament were to accept it. the most valuable part of the tree has to be used. the more important the more important, but the side streams generated by industry must first be sourced and must be used for heating, transport fuel and also for electricity generation. it is extremely important that this be taken care of in the vote tomorrow. red ii is a good reform, and there's a lot of good in it. the sustainability criteria are the bad part, and they must be avoided. the 45% target that is being set is tolerated.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we have been too dependent on fossil fuels, and now our citizens are paying the cost of our past inaction and concentration of supply to unreliable oil, gas and coal suppliers. may i remind you that this high—energy—price crisis is due to the high prices of fossil fuels and also the manipulation of russia and putin. but the time has come to act and rein in these abnormally high prices and high profits for some energy companies. the fossil fuel levy or solidarity contribution is very important to rein in the high windfall profits gained at the cost of our citizens’ purses. and we are also expecting binding measures to cut peak electricity demand and to ensure support to those struggling with their energy bills. it is important that this package works together and we as greens support the commission on this approach and hope that the council sees it through. we need to pass this quickly into law for the benefit of our citizens. also, we should not also look just at the short term, but also at the long term and not act against it by creating long—lasting favourable conditions for fossil fuel use. we can make this sort of crisis history by shifting to renewables and becoming energy independent and by investing in energy efficiency. any measure we take now in the short term should be matched with long-term measures to increase our energy efficiency and help the shift to renewables. so we have to look at the electricity market design as a tool to support this goal of becoming more energy independent, and that means that we are also more secure, more economically sound and acting on the climate.
president, rapporteurs, commissioner, although i have said this many times before, both here in parliament and in previous years in the council, i will say it again: eu cohesion policy has produced both good and bad results. the differences between countries have narrowed in many ways, and that's a good thing. but at the same time, within countries, in many cases, the disparities have not only remained unchanged but have increased further, so that the situation of the weaker has even deteriorated in absolute terms compared to previous years. this is bad. i'm sure there are many reasons. one is that, in my view, at least in some countries, the resources available under cohesion policy are being used too heavily for the benefit of the larger centres, leaving the weaker surrounding regions to suffer. i think it is extremely important, now that the basis for the eighth cohesion programme is being laid, that we now ensure that this anomaly, which i pointed out, is emphasised in all programming and in the basis for programmes, so that this trend can be reversed.
mr president, there is a saying in finland that an accident does not happen with a watch on. none of us are immune to anything, not to sickness or injury. some people are born with limitations in their lives, and it is the duty of a civilized society to ensure that everyone, regardless of illness or disability, has the right and opportunity to live a full life. the eu has a habit of wanting to solve every problem at eu level. this is often not the best solution. this is understandable, because the eu is being made into a federation and the federation is aiming to have a strong central government. from this top it is always known which solutions would be best in any country and the same model is presented to different states. every time the eu's electoral legislation is reformed, new authorities are wanted. they want the eu electoral authority. it means new offices and new expenses. one example of this is the idea of an 'accessibleeu' centre, which would bring about a new governance. it is a beautiful idea, but do we need new administrative structures with secretariats? i don't think the government is making anyone's life better. it's just a new money issue. finland is very advanced in these matters, although of course there is always room for improvement. we should focus more on sharing good practices and sharing them, and then the leaders of the countries decide whether this is right for us and whether this new innovation, as such, is good for our country. i don't think strong governance is the answer here. unfortunately, the eu is more of a bureaucracy than a democracy, because if we trust democracy, we also trust that the national states are best able to take care of their weakest members.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, biodiversity loss is an existential threat, and we must also address this challenge. this is not only important to the upcoming cop 15 on biodiversity, but also in the context of cop 19 on the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in panama. cites is an agreement with the aim to make sure that trade in wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival in nature. the species listed in cites are grouped according to how threatened they are by international trade. in the coming cop, the eu should support proposals for uplisting species to better protect the species. also, it is worth noting that this still leaves a lot of species outside the scope of cites where other, often national, tools for data protection are needed and the eu must push for those as well. there is no way of protecting species without also protecting their habitats. it is good that this resolution notes the importance of key habitats such as forests and oceans. this is important when we are addressing also climate effects to our planet, that biodiversity and species protection goes hand in hand with that as well. i am pleased that in this resolution we recognise the role of the european union as a major driver and as a transit and destination point for illegal trade. this must be stopped. there are major gaps in the eu’s own wildlife regulations. revision of the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking will be a great moment to tackle the role of the eu in driving demand for illegal trade. not only is nature on the line; the wild and uncontrolled wildlife trade also increases risks for human health. therefore, our job is now to make sure that wildlife can thrive without us humans threatening its existence and we also support our own future by doing that.
mr president, the eu must defend its own values. the union is not just about money and economics. it is also a community of values where democracy, human rights, a free press and the rule of law are protected. parliament has been consistent in this. it has ensured that we have new legislation which allows us to intervene in cases of abuse. the commission has finally taken action. it has stopped the flow of eu funds to hungary and made clear what reforms are needed. the council, representing the member states, should now adopt the commission's decision. that's the absolute minimum. the hungarian government is expected to make real reforms to ensure that the rights of hungarian citizens are protected and that budgetary resources are used properly. a firm line is also needed to ensure the rights of future generations.
mr president, when the iranian religious police beat a woman to death in iran, european feminists are silent. are the rules of islam more important than this woman's right to live? who would have defended him here in europe? would he even be accused of islamophobia? i wouldn't be surprised either. europe can and must condemn the oppression of women by iran and islam, but does that change anything? even if the present fanatical islamic clergy rule were to fall, a new islamic government would take its place. whether it's more brutal or more moderate is the only question. islam and its concept of womanhood will not disappear. the export of western democracy to islamic countries has not been successful so far. the previous arab revolutions did not change the situation for anything. iran's neighbor afghanistan has installed the latest reign of terror. what about the future of europe? tens of millions of those who were force-fed by that religion have been given an open welcome here, and the results have been seen. terrorists are everywhere. would europe have learned from this?
mr. president, the russian aggression is getting worse. the threat of nuclear weapons is in itself a violation of international law and a threat which will not deter us from supporting ukraine. the explosion of the nord stream gas pipeline in the baltic sea must be thoroughly investigated by an independent body and we must ensure that all our critical infrastructure can be protected against possible acts of sabotage. russia started building an energy crisis before it invaded ukraine. the gas supply ran into unexpected technical problems, and the price of gas was artificially raised. energy is one of putin's weapons in this war, and it's now directed at all of us. the decisive factor for the eu will be the measures we take to ensure that europeans survive the coming winter. there are many good practices, but i still insist on the importance of energy saving. it should be in a much larger role than it is now. our greatest weapon is unity. unity in sanctions against russia and unity in solutions to the energy crisis. a joint solution is in all of our interests. russia has also not organised any referendums, but a barbarous spectacle which has nothing to do with democracy, and in which intimidation and threats were used to cover up illegal regional alliances. these territories remain part of independent ukraine and we will never recognize this illegal attempt to occupy the territory of a sovereign state. the eu must continue to support ukraine, listening to the wishes of the ukrainian people. the support must be political, economic, humanitarian and support ukraine's ability to defend itself militarily. we must offer access and security to the eu territory to russian dissidents and conscientious objectors. it is also time to recognize the fact that we must get rid of nuclear weapons globally. without the nuclear threat, this situation would look very different. the nuclear threat perpetuates and enables conflict, and the eu must, once peace is established, take the lead in building a nuclear-free future.
mr president, next year's budget is certainly not a conventional one. the aggressive war launched by russia against ukraine has presented the european union and its citizens with exceptional challenges. the union shall support ukraine for as long as necessary. at the same time, we know that the consequences of the war - high inflation, rising energy prices and security of supply risks - are also being felt in europe. this too must be taken into account in the forthcoming eu decisions. the economic crisis is also testing the member states and all eu citizens. it is important that the eu budget addresses these challenges and prioritises spending. knowledge, research and ukraine need funding. at the same time, parliament should set an example and be restrained in its own spending, this is not the time for large-scale construction projects.
mr president, the murders in bratislava have shocked the entire european rainbow community. young people murdered in the name of homosexuality were targeted for a hate crime simply because they were part of the rainbow minority, because that was the only thing the killer knew about them. even though the perpetrator is legally responsible for the murder, the responsibility is still ours, because for us politicians, words are deeds. i have heard repeated hate speech from slovak politicians and from this house. i've heard how i and my existence are a threat to children and the very foundation of society. i've heard how i'm incapable of being a parent and how i don't have the same rights as other people. the bratislava murders are the worst outcome that hate speech can lead to. human rights are a whole. you can't support them by selecting. if you're willing to trample on the human rights of one group, you're willing to weaken human rights, including your own. everyone should have the right to live as they are, as their own, without fear of violence and discrimination. unfortunately, this is not the case in europe today. (the president declared the motion for a resolution adopted by a large majority)
reply to the blue card speech. to the previous speaker, i would like to say that no member state is free from hate crime. not slovakia, not my country finland. it is everywhere, and that is why it is the responsibility of each one of us to see to it that we do not support hate speech. we rise up against it every time we hear it. in this room, i have repeatedly heard hate speech against rainbow minorities, against ethnic minorities, against roma, against linguistic minorities. we can start in this room. to try to turn this into a case of blaming you or a certain nationality is to talk past the point. it's a responsibility that we all have, and we could start in this room.
mr president, the eu is doing more than ever for the climate, but just because we are doing more than we used to does not mean we are doing enough. climate decisions should always be based on scientific advice on the actions and timelines to be taken. this is not the case globally, nor is it the case in the eu. the latest un emissions report says that we are moving towards 2.7 degrees of warming with the current policies. this is the reality in which we will leave for the next climate summit. the next climate summit must be able to decide on international climate finance and the rich countries must be prepared to increase their funding, but the green transition will not be done with taxpayers' money alone, but all the cash flows must be made available to support the green transition. and finally, at least we in the eu should be able to decide that we will end the harmful and ineffective fossil fuel subsidies. the financing must also be substantial enough to cover the damage and losses, which are only increasing. this is sad, but it's a fact. the cost of not doing so is far greater than the investment required, and the longer we wait, the heavier the bill becomes.
mr president, every inhabited region of the planet is currently experiencing the impacts of climate change. we are already living in an era of adverse climate effects. even if last year’s glasgow cop cut new climate pledges and increased ambition, that was clearly not enough. no matter how we play with the numbers, we are not still on the path to 1.5 degrees. we are actually using our remaining carbon budget within this decade. so we need to do more. even if in egypt the focus has been for many in climate financing, loss and damage adaptation – those are important targets – the eu has to, in addition to delivering the goals, also take on board also the message from glasgow that member countries will increase their ambition. and the eu has to do its own role here. we are currently having the negotiations in trilogues using a number of files of fit of 55 and from the parliament side, like myself as rapporteur on lulucf, we are increasing, hastening the process to get a deal also before sharm el sheikh to show that the eu can increase its ambition. we hope to get support in this from the commission and from the council who is absent today. i really hope that they are not absent in those negotiations and not absent in egypt, because eu has to put more on the table to demand more from the others.
madam president, it is now time for self defence of democracy. we as a european union cannot be side-tracked into inner division. but we must stand and face in solidarity aggression of russia, both in supporting ukraine, but also in the effect it has on our economies and our energy security. the greens welcome the possibilities for joint gas purchases proposed by the commission, but this is only a first necessary step needed to bring the energy prices down. now it’s up to the eu member states also to unite europe and jointly work on hastening the exit from dependency on imported fossil fuels and especially gas. we can still do more to reduce gas demand and increase energy savings this winter. this is the most meaningful action we can do to avoid the energy crisis. has the commission counted how much fossil gas contracts and investments are still done in the eu, especially from russia? we can do more to reduce this demand, and we also need to invest massively in renewables and energy efficiency. therefore, we really need a large investment programme in delivering the repowereu, but, dear commission, this time it solely needs to be on renewables and not on fossil investments. we cannot derail the green deal by continuing dependence on fossil gas. russian aggression and sabotage is not causing disruption only on the energy markets and economy, but also tries to create disorder and instability in our democracies. we have seen within europe politics of threatening human rights, women’s rights and environmental and climate action that would actually weaken our resolve in solving the energy crisis. these are politics of division, and it’s exactly what putin wants. so progress does not happen automatically. we all must stay alert to protect our democracies. a lot is at stake.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, if you ask the left—leaning parties, they think that all the other parties are some kind of extreme, which should be excluded and stigmatised. this is how the european parliament works. it discriminates against my id group. dear friends, referendums and respecting the result is democracy. in italy, god, family and the nation state won. this may come as a surprise to you, but it is part of democracy that power changes from time to time. the biggest advantage of brexit is that even if the election result does not please von der leyen, she cannot threaten britain any more, as she threatened italy. in sweden, common sense finally won. immigration policy will change and the ministry of the environment will be abolished. i wonder why the european parliament is never worried about communism, even though there are parties in the governments of the member states whose name is ‘the communist party’.
mr president, we need to provide energy security to our citizens this winter. even more importantly, we need to hasten the green deal to deliver an energy transformation to solve both the energy—independence needs for europe and the climate crisis. it is positive that the council wants to address and hasten the transition to solar and wind power and heat pumps, also in permitting. however, this cannot be done at a cost to our environment and biodiversity. the green deal is not just about climate and energy security, but is also about environmental sustainability. the climate and biodiversity crises need to be tackled hand-in-hand in order for us to deliver long-term results. therefore, we find the council regulation based on article 122 without parliament’s involvement, quite worrisome, especially on the aspect of overriding public interest. parliament has been working on permitting and next week we should have a mandate to start trilogues on it. we urge the council to move fast on this longer-term solution to hasten permitting while respecting our nature legislation. emergency measures based on article 122 are not the place to introduce long-term changes, and two parallel proposals on the same subject can also create insecurity for the market. so we have to introduce the aspects that deserve longer-term application and also considerations for nature within the negotiations of the renewable energy directive.
mr president, repowereu is an extremely important and very welcome initiative. the russian aggression in ukraine requires a swift response from the whole union and we really need a whole new kind of energy self-sufficiency. we must end all dependence on russian fossil fuels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not affected by the russian crisis. investments in renewable and zero-emission energy sources must now be prioritised. then we have one particular problem. it's a different kind of bureaucratic time-out in the permitting process. the union as a whole and each member state must simplify their permitting procedures in order to really speed up the transition to zero-emission energy sources. the council has made its own proposal. parliament should aim for a rapid outcome of the negotiations so that the citizens can see the results.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs. indeed, covid was now in danger of driving europe's economy into crisis. however, unlike in the financial crisis, the eu was able to use its common resources to help member states in greater difficulty. our solution was a means of recovery. we decided to take on a large amount of debt together for the first time. it was a strong show of solidarity. the use of this money must now be closely monitored. the commissioner's presentation was a good one in this respect. this decision on resuscitation was made with the confidence that it was an exceptional, one-off and temporary solution. for finland, this was a necessary condition for the granting of the next generation eu. in the context of the present case, it should be borne in mind that such a solidarity debt settlement must indeed remain unique. the member states themselves must assume responsibility for balancing their economies. the future stability and growth pact will be of great importance for the practical application of this principle.
mr president, there is only one solution to the endless barrage of illegal fires: close the borders. it's the only solution to that. i think the european parliament is finally coming to its senses. the constant chatter about this will only accelerate the population exchange that is coming to europe. we have to do something, not just talk. because of the population explosion, the influx of young men, or false refugees, will never stop. that's why we need to close the tunnels. the invasion of europe is not a human right. the mediterranean should be turned back and the ships of human traffickers operating in the region in the name of humanitarian aid should be seized. when word spreads that europe's borders are closed, the flow of fire will stop on its own. this simple and the only effective cure for this disease.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, biodiversity is not only a value in itself but also a necessary element for us to survive as climate change progresses. the stronger the biodiversity, the better the ability of our planet to adapt to the inevitable warming ahead. we are in the midst of a sixth extinction wave, and species are now being lost at a rate unprecedented in human history. it has a negative impact on both food production and human health. so a change of direction is necessary. the eu had set itself the goal of ending deforestation by 2020. we failed completely. the species is only accelerating. it is time to accept that voluntary action is not enough, we need binding and measurable targets. it is absolutely essential that we achieve a binding international agreement to stop the loss of biodiversity in the spirit of the paris agreement. ladies and gentlemen, we are now in a race against time. the world must finally wake up to the fact that deforestation is the same crisis and emergency that global warming is to us.
mr president, to succeed, the eu's rural areas must be able to provide jobs, services and functioning infrastructure. the rapporteur has dealt with these matters with merit. the modern rural area is a condition for being connected to digital service networks by fixed broadband connections. a report by the european court of auditors a few years ago shows that this condition is not met in almost all eu countries. this is also true in my home country of finland. in areas where broadband is not well-functioning, the eu's common cohesion policy has no real basis. the eu should require that member states provide efficient broadband connections to rural areas as a condition for cohesion funding to the region. without them, cohesion policy cannot be expected to produce good results. rural development is financed under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, the european agricultural fund for rural development. it would be neither sensible nor cost-effective to shift funding towards cohesion or regional development provisions. there is also a fear that the money would be diverted to projects other than rural development on the cohesion side.
mr president, the 45% target is a tough one. parliament and the commission eu now rely heavily on solar and wind power. raising the installed capacity from 150 gigawatts to 600 gigawatts for solar, from 180 gigawatts to 500 gigawatts for wind, and from 18 gigawatts to 40 gigawatts for biogas or biomethane requires radical action to succeed. the idea of a nuclear development zone is a good one and certainly a viable one, both in terms of permitting processes and also in terms of bringing renewable energy into the grid. these are good performances. however, i regret that this whole report does not take account of bioenergy as it should, and it does not take account of it in the nuclear field either. commissioner timmermans says that it can be built anyway. oh, but you need a permit. we need to make some planning decisions. there are many types of environmental permits that are needed, and building permits are needed. in the promotion of bioenergy, accelerated procedures are also appropriate and necessary.
mr president, europe is in a serious crisis. even the war in ukraine will not stop the green demarche and the red-hot right from making endless decisions. why can't emissions trading be frozen? it would be a great way to lower the electricity bill. finland has been driving peat consumption down by storm and now it is complaining that district heating is expensive. do you want electricity to be expensive or cheap? if you want it to be cheap, maybe it's time to change the concept. green fanaticism is everywhere. valtamedias journalists are mostly green, and therefore most of the media's revenue comes from lying. the green parties decided that trees will not grow after 2030. and this madness doesn't end there. and now we're also told that the sexes are 72 and all that nonsense. the eu has no voice in defence of persecuted christians, even though they are the most persecuted group in the world. i'm worried about the west. it's in danger of sinking.
mr. president, israel is the only democracy in the middle east. in israel, women are free too, and the courts can be trusted. the same cannot be said for environmental controls. no country is perfect, but it's amazing that when israel strikes back, for some reason, the western media is on the side of the islamists. anti-semitism is a serious problem in europe too. we have inherent anti-semitism. there's anti-semitism in the far left, there's anti-semitism in the far right, but there's anti-semitism in the far left, just like the labour party in britain. the arab-jewish conflict in palestine has been tried to be resolved by the two-state solution proposed by the united nations in 1947. the model was brought closer to fruition in the 1993 oslo negotiations, but the arab goal of driving the jews into the sea has been seen as an obstacle to achieving a lasting peace. an israeli has the right to his independence and his integrity, and jerusalem belongs to the jews. the palestinians deserve a state of their own. but that is not what is achieved by supporting terrorism.
mr president, when the decision on the next generation eu was taken, it was meant to be a one-off decision, but the world is changing all the time. microbrakes, batteries, defence: money would be needed for many new needs, but the eu does not have it either. the same is true in most member states. they're in debt. they cannot meet the fiscal rules. that's why it's so hard to get extra money from them. you gotta be careful walking down that road. ukraine is a different story. the eu's response to these challenges we face must be to improve competitiveness, to invest in knowledge, innovation, research and business and to improve cooperation. the era, state aid, market neutrality and its support cannot be the european way. not only, and not particularly, in the small european countries. our success depends on a fair market and genuine competition.
